i-8CMBvEkgLgkWXKmcyeFqqC	Madam President, I would like I commend the moderate reservations 7 and 8. This is a long-awaited bill, but thank you for what it's been waiting. Unfortunately, this is a hallmark of the current government. The bill is on the whole good, but it has its flaws. Firstly, the age assessment should be carried out immediately upon arrival in Sweden. It is important that children are treated properly and receive the support they need. It must be a shocking journey to travel over the earth alone, without mother or father. This means that it is important, and sometimes absolutely necessary, to provide these children with support and treatment. We need to use every penny of the resources available to these children. Therefore, those funds must go to children and not to adults who say they are children. There may also be unnecessary risks of mixing children, without parents present, with other adults who are not relatives. That is why we Moderates consider it more than reasonable, for the sake of children, that the age assessment should be carried out immediately upon arrival. Secondly, we know that it has been difficult for the Migration Agency to get age determinations in place. This has largely been due to the fact that the county councils have been responsible for such measures, and there the interest – to say the least – has been cool. We Moderates therefore believe that it would be good for the Migration Board to hire its own doctors to serve the interests of young people and the state in this matter. Thirdly, Madam President, it should be voluntary to undergo such an age assessment. But if someone refuses, in a case where age is judged unclear, that person should be judged as an adult. This does not apply, of course, if there are special reasons to refuse. The thesis that the one who has nothing to hide has nothing to lose from the truth should be applied. Fourthly, as part of providing these unaccompanied minors with the support they need, they have been placed in HVB homes, where the municipality is the principal. This means that the home workers daily see and meet these children, and the employees will get to know them after some time. Should there then be any doubt as to whether a child or an adult is involved, the municipality should have the right to request an age assessment in order for the children to feel safe. Finally, Madam President, I would like to mention that we Moderates believe that the new regulations should be applicable even if the application has been registered before 1 February 2017, which is the date proposed by the government.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-18	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to start with the reservations. We support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 7, in common with the Moderates, and to reservation 11. In the last speech we were able to hear that the legislation is welcome, but how late it came. Of course, I am right about these words – it is no secret that we from the Swedish Democrats have been pointing out for a long time the need for similar legislation and for ensuring that those who are treated as children are also children. At the same time, I cannot help but think that this is a bit hypocritical by someone from a party who had government power during the previous term of office. We know that alliance politicians have also highlighted the need for age assessments – for example, there is an article from 2012 by the centre party Staffan Danielsson on this particular issue. The legislation could have been put in place much earlier than is currently the case. Madam President, I would like Having said that, this is definitely a good first step, even if it is too late. It is untenable to have a system where resources intended for children are at risk of going to adults. Above all, it is untenable that, as we have just heard, children who are placed in accommodations in order to provide them with extra security are at risk of ending up with adults. These people are not only adults but have also shown that they have no respect for regulations and laws. It creates insecurity and uncertainty. Last week we read in connection with several cases that it is not by mistake that people state the wrong age. There have been several testimonies for a long time, not least in the review that Expressen made last week, where people who have come here first have stated that they are unaccompanied minors and that they are 16-17 years old but then have admitted that they are adults. The article from last week that had the title, yes, I'm 22... but in Sweden I am 17 years, and that's not a new story – it's not a new story. That is precisely why it is particularly serious that we have not taken concrete monitoring measures to this end. Our neighbours have been age-tested for several years, and it has been reported that up to 50, 60, 70 or sometimes 80 percent of those who have been tested for age have turned out to be adults. Of course, it should be pointed out that not everyone who says they are unaccompanied is being tested, but this happens when there is some uncertainty, but it is still a very high figure. Many have seen the opportunity and taken the opportunity to indicate a lower age, because they know that they then have a chance to be judged differently. It is also clear that one chooses the country that does not carry out thorough audits. When I was in Brussels three or four weeks ago at a conference on the asylum situation in Europe right now – about the migration flows here – I asked a representative of good men from the Netherlands about how they work with age assessments. Among other things, he replied that they do age assessments on and off. Now they have had a period where they have not had to do so, because the number of cases decreased drastically since they started to make age assessments. There were no longer as many people who gave the wrong age. This produced a preventive effect. It affects the flow of migration and how people behave – it affects whether or not they try to provide incorrect information. Now the Netherlands saw an increased need again and would therefore start with the age tests again. Legislation has an effect, as well as – unfortunately – our permissiveness. Madam President, I would like I said at the outset that this is a good first step, and it is precisely a first step. There is much more to be done than these small steps in the right direction, where at least a piece of legislation is put in place which shows more clearly that the burden of proof of facts giving particular advantages lies with the person who states that it is in a particular situation – in this case, that it is a minor. It is not the State that should prove that a person is an adult, but it is the State that claims that it is a minor and thus asserts the right to special benefits that should prove its need for this. Therefore, an offer is also introduced to those whose age is at risk of being written up by the Migration Agency. They can choose to be age - tested to prove that they are really minors. However, as this is designed in the proposal, as I said, it is only about those whose age the Migration Agency plans to write up – not about all cases where age is unclear. It may seem at first glance to be enough, for if it is unclear you will reasonably write down the age as the burden of proof is. However, given the stories and reports we have heard from the Migration Board last or last year, time pressure and a desire to close as many cases as quickly as possible and with as few appeals as possible is tending to give the asylum seeker a quick approval rather than a longer hearing. As a result, there is an obvious risk that we will end up in a similar situation as in 2015 with a very large inflow to Sweden and that, for simplicity's sake, the age will not be recorded because it will be a lengthy process. Rather, the person who claims to be a child is judged as a child in order to move on. Madam President, I would like Therefore, we in the Swedish Democrats believe that it should be made clear in the law that in all cases where it is not obvious that it is a child, one should assume that the person should be assessed as an adult, unless the person undergoes an age test that clearly shows that it is a child and unless it is unclear even after a medical age assessment, because medical age determinations are not always 100% safe. There will always be cases where the age of children or adults is unclear. Then we have a principle, benefit of the double, which means that you should judge in the person's favour. The person will therefore be registered as a child. It is a procedure that is nevertheless reasonable. If you have used all the possibilities available to see if it is a child or not and it is still unclear, it is reasonable not to risk a child being judged as an adult. However, the problem remains that adults may be able to live with children and thus put them at risk. It is therefore the view of the Swedish democrats that all cases where people are registered as children because, after a medical age assessment, one still does not know for sure should be distinguished from cases where it has actually been proven that they are children – for the sake of children's safety. The proposed legislation actually talks about the temporary nature of the decisions to be taken earlier in the asylum process, which is welcome. However, we Swedish democrats believe that they should be able to be final in that all the decisions to be taken should be based either on obviousness or on a medical assessment on a scientific basis, or that there is really strong evidence in other forms, such as approved and proven identity documents. This should apply, except in the few cases where age will still be unclear. We therefore believe that all decisions should be considered final from the outset. It is unreasonable that there should be new data later in the process that will change age, except for the unclear cases that have continued. These are the only cases that we believe should be subject to appeal. Among other things, the Moderates have a reservation that municipalities should be able to ask for age assessments. The Swedish Democrats do not support the reservation but propose a broad range of measures, including, as has been said, that everyone should be tested but also that they should check the age of those who have registered as unaccompanied minors since 2011, because that was when we got a much more generous interpretation of our migration legislation with changed practices. With our proposals, there would no longer be a need for municipalities themselves to request age assessments, but all unclear cases should nevertheless be taken up. On the other hand, we support the claim that if you refuse to participate in medical age assessment, even though it is really for the person's own good, it should be seen as an admission that the assessment that you are over 18 years old is actually correct and that you do not want to take the chance to prove that it is wrong. We also want to go one step further than the Moderates, who certainly propose to use the new legislation also for cases that have been registered before 1 February this year. We believe that all cases that the Migration Agency is still dealing with, which relate to people who have stated that they are children but where age is unclear, should also be covered by the legislation. In January, we were able to read several articles where the Migration Agency talks about 20 000 open cases with people who could be considered for age assessments. However, they are not covered by current legislation, as they are cases that were registered already in January of this year. The government claims in the bill that these people are excluded because they should already have reached such a stage in the process that the final decision after the end of the asylum examination is so close in time. But everyone who has been present in this country lately knows that the processing times at the Migration Board are extremely long. The time between the registration of an application and its completion is very long. Therefore, once again, all cases that are open are to be covered by the legislation.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-38	Madam President, I would like It has to be acknowledged that this is a report that contains a lot of good proposals, although we centrers would have liked to see some additional points that would make it even better. Let me start with what is a little positive in this context, and it is now being said that the age assessments of children and young people should be done much earlier in the asylum process, which is very important. It is also important that the decision of the Migration Agency can be appealed, for it provides legal certainty. Last but not least, I can mention as positive that this process should not be delayed, because all the waiting creates concern. The first of the four points that we center parties would particularly like to press for in this context is that it should be early, legal and not arbitrary age assessments. The second point is that those who were assessed according to the older routine and rejected should be given the opportunity to be tested according to the new method. The third point is that young people who have been registered in their age and who have been rejected who are under review should be given the opportunity to remain in the municipality where they have their security previously. The fourth point is that those who have got a job in Sweden should be allowed to stay. We have recently heard how awfully bad the unaccompanied asylum seekers the children and young people are. There are alarm reports about children who commit suicide, try to commit suicide or have self-harm behaviour, and we cannot accept that. We cannot accept that children are so terrible in our welfare country Sweden, where the government also wants us to legislate on the Convention on the Rights of the Child. After all, it is children and young people that we should very much protect. The main reason why children and young people are worried and feel insecure lies in the legislation that the government has decided on and also the age descriptions that the Migration Board does. The new method of medical age assessment by the National Board of Forensic Medicine should be and is much better. This means that the age assessments carried out under the new method are becoming more legal and not so arbitrary. The Finnish Immigration Service acknowledges that the previous assessments were more arbitrary and less legally secure. This means that you have to have a second review when you have appealed if you got your assessment according to the old procedures and methods. What would it mean if you didn't do it again and do it right? Then young people under the age of 18 are at risk of being deported to Afghanistan, and no one human being wants that to happen. If these young people are re-evaluated according to the new medical assessments, we know that they have been written up and therefore need a second trial. Pending the review, you should stay in your municipality, because there you have your security, which is important. Young people who have jobs in Sweden must be allowed to stay. That is very much a reason to change tracks. The Center Party wants to remove the limit in four months. All the people in our country who work are involved and contribute to our prosperity and to our own. If you have got a job in Sweden, you have come a long way into Swedish society and succeeded with their integration. Madam President, I would like With the Center Party's proposals for amendments and additions, the law would become even more legally secure and clear. The desperate, anxious, and insecure youths would regain the hope and dream of another world and life. Not everyone applying for asylum should be granted a residence permit. That's not what the Center Party wants. But the rules that you seek from outside and that you should have your individual reasons tested from outside should be clear and equal for everyone. Madam President, I would like We politicians have a great responsibility to protect the most vulnerable people in our country, children and young people, in all respects. Madam President, I would like I support the Center Party's reservation, No. 9.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-55	Madam President, I would like Age is of great importance in the Swedish asylum system and the judiciary, which is why it is important in many cases that we determine a person's age. Unfortunately, however, it is sometimes impossible to determine the exact age. People are not trees with tree rings, but we are quite different. The methods available to determine age are never perfect but provide answers within a certain range. The Left Party's criticism of age assessments has historically not been about the assessments themselves, but about the methods of assessment being so uncertain that it has led to a lack of legal certainty. This opinion is quite widespread and is shared by several organisations and experts, such as the Swedish Bar Association and the Swedish Children's Association. There are now more reliable methods and a clearer regulatory framework for the interpretation and implementation of assessments. The proposal we are debating today means that the rules should be interpreted to the benefit of the applicant in the event of uncertainty. This welcomes the Left Party. At the same time, there is always a risk that the assessment will be misleading. Therefore, medical assessments must be supplemented by other methods, such as an assessment of the child's psychosocial development and general maturity. There must also be the possibility of making exceptions for specific reasons, and the integrity of those being investigated must be carefully protected. The Government justifies the proposal that this should prevent adult asylum seekers from living together with unaccompanied minors on accommodation adapted for children and that resources allocated to children should not go to adult asylum seekers. The Left agrees that it is good that the proposal should address these problems. However, we are rather justifying the need for more legally certain age assessments by preventing the arbitrary revaluations of the age of unaccompanied minors, which could lead to the expulsion of children or the loss of their rights as children. One might also wonder why we talk so little about the importance of preventing children from being forced to live with adults if they are written up in age. Madam President, I would like Let's look back at what's happened. The methods of assessing the age of unaccompanied asylum seekers have varied over the years and have been done with more or less arbitrary methods. In a period around 2005 almost all of them were x-rayed, and the whole range of uncertainty, two to four years, was then used to the detriment of the asylum seeker. The introduction of new guidelines requiring that the uncertainty interval be to the advantage of the applicant effectively ended the age assessment. This resulted in problems with the placement of adults in youth housing. Then, instead, age assessments began to be made according to the administrators' own views, which of course led to doubtful assessments and widespread criticism. In 2012, the National Board of Health and Welfare issued new guidelines on how to use age assessments. Based on them, an agreement was made between the Migration Agency, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish Children's Association. It was decided that pediatricians would make the assessments and that X-rays would be only part of the basis. The age would be determined on the basis of an overall assessment based on the medical assessments and the child's psychosocial development and general maturity. It was the children's doctors who made the overall assessments, and they left only the overall assessments to the Migration Board. It was a good order. In 2015, the Migration Agency began to go around this agreement and request the X-rays from the overall assessment. However, X-rays are not very accurate because, as I said, there is a difference of two to four years, which is quite a lot. The Migration Board simply ignored the knowledge and expertise of children's doctors. Children's doctors refused to release the X-rays, and the Migration Board terminated the agreement. At present, both pediatricians and the Bar Association have decided not to contribute to age assessments, making it difficult for children to prove their actual age. In the debate, children's doctors have often been accused of slowing down the issue and aggravating the problem. The Left Party, too, has been claimed to be against age assessments, although it is the methods in themselves that we criticise. Among other things, criticism has been expressed by Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson – although it was in fact the Migration Agency, an authority for which the Minister of Migration is responsible, that broke the agreement. For some time now, relatively few investigations and age assessments have been carried out, with the exception of a large number of rapid age revaluations in connection with registration at the end of 2015. At the end of 2016, there was also a large amount of age revaluations, often on the day of the decision and without an investigation. At the same time, nearly half of the unaccompanied minors from Afghanistan who received a decision in 2016 received an age write-up. I think we all remember Systembolaget's massive campaign on age. We all know that we need to show ID until we're 25, precisely because it's very difficult by just looking at a human being to see if it's 171⁄2, 21 and so on. It's very different. What has happened at the rapid write-up is that the staff at the Migration Agency have looked and hipped and said: You are probably about that age. It is not a legal system in Sweden. On 5 March, the Migration Board issued a strong criticism of the age assessments made by the Swedish Agency in 2016. They announced that no more decisions that need to include an assessment of the asylum seeker's age will be taken until the new methods recommended by the National Board of Forensic Medicine are in place. The Finnish Immigration Service also announced that a special management team has been set up to strengthen quality and support the administrators and that extensive training efforts have been launched. Those who have received a decision and appealed it can request that the Migration Court ask the Migration Agency to order a medical age assessment of the National Board of Forensic Medicine. The Left Party very much welcomes the Migration Board's review of the age assessments they have carried out and the self-criticism authority expressed. However, in view of the seriousness of the errors detected, the variation in age assessment methods over the years and the far-reaching impact of the decisions on individuals, a more detailed analysis should be made of the way in which age assessments have been carried out over the years and the consequences they have had. Such an examination should aim to clarify the responsibility for the assessment and prevent similar situations from arising in the future. On Tuesday night last week, a plane of forced exiles took off to Kabul. We know there were people on the plane who were registered at age. In the light of everything I have said here – that there was not a reliable method of age assessment and that the Migration Agency has stopped age projections because they themselves saw shortcomings in legal certainty – it is clear that some unaccompanied persons may have been on the plane and ended up in a very serious situation. Sweden must not risk forced expulsion of children to one of the world's most dangerous countries. A government that claims to want to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child a law should recognise this. Therefore, the Left Party has supported the request for age assessment before enforcement put forward by the Center Party. In one month's time, when we debate the government proposal on residence permits for secondary school studies, we will debate the difficult circumstances under which unaccompanied minors live and what needs to be done further. I'm looking forward to that. Madam President, I would like As I said, it is very good that the government is putting forward a proposal to improve legal certainty in age assessments. It is also good that the bill clearly states that the principle of benefit of the double should apply and that the assessments in case of uncertainty should be interpreted to the advantage of the applicant and that the medical age assessments should be funded by the State and not the applicant. The Left Party also welcomes the fact that the assessment is made earlier in the process and that there will be an opportunity to appeal against the decisions, although the latter may be strengthened in some respects. The Left Party supports the proposal but, as I said, sees a few shortcomings that need to be addressed. We want the psychosocial assessment to be an important basis in cases where a medical age assessment cannot be carried out. It is important to be able to do this. Age assessment methods should therefore be complemented by an assessment of the child's psychosocial development and general maturity. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 4. I'm sorry I overwhelmed my time a little.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-79	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Liberals' reservation 5 to be approved under paragraph 1. The report is very important for a fundamental and fundamental reason: we treat children and adults differently in Sweden. Children in Sweden have special protection needs. Children have special rights in Sweden. Adults, on the other hand, have special obligations towards children. This means that if a person comes to Sweden and applies for asylum, there is a big difference if the person is 17 years old or, for example, 22. We know that, unfortunately, more likely than was thought, people say that they are younger than they are. Therefore, medical age assessments are needed, and these must be done early in the process so that we do not mix children and adults in accommodation. It is completely unreasonable if we have girls aged 15 to 17 who are traumatized by war and who are in a home where there are men over 20 years in the corridor and so on. This can lead to very big problems. In Sweden, many have opposed the use of medical age assessments. I and the Liberals think it is important that these assessments can be made in order to have a better basis for making decisions about how old people are. I find it very difficult to see why Sweden as a country should say that it is not important to know how old people are in our country. Of course, it is very important that we know this, until people retire in the future. If we now let thousands of people enter Sweden and people say that they are younger than they are and they end up being judged to be several years younger, it will have consequences throughout their lives. Therefore, it is important that we make medical age assessments. This does not mean that age assessments are completely watertight. They are more accurate now than they have been in the past, and this means that you get a better basis for making decisions about people's age. In addition, it is important that they are made as early as possible in the process for the reason that they will govern what housing a person receives. If we have the ambition in Sweden to have a workable, reasonable and legally secure asylum policy, it goes without saying that we must also do everything we can to establish as early as possible how old people are. I do not really think there is much more to say about this. Liberals have a reservation that unaccompanied persons aged between 18 and 21 who are aged or aged 18 lose much of the support previously provided for a number of years. There will be a rather abrupt shift in life for these guys, and therefore it is reasonable that they should be able to have a contact person for a few more years. Liberals also have a reservation with the Moderates, which means that municipalities, if it is suspected that there are people on accommodation for children although they are adults, should be able to request a medical age assessment.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-89	Madam President, I would like We in the KD support all three of our reservations in the report, but in this House we are only calling for reservation 9. We are today debating the Government's proposal that age assessment should take place earlier in the asylum process. If there is uncertainty as to whether an asylum seeker is under the age of 18 or not, the Finnish Immigration Service shall, as soon as possible, carry out an age assessment and take a temporary decision on age. Before such a temporary decision is taken, the asylum seeker shall be given the opportunity to undergo a medical age assessment. The provisional decisions shall be subject to appeal. The Christian Democrats support these proposals. We think it is good that the government is taking this initiative. The measures are important in order to avoid, as far as possible, the placement of adult asylum seekers with unaccompanied minors, but also in order to ensure that the resources to go to children are not used for adults. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have three reservations in the current report. All aim to provide greater legal certainty. These include the transitional rules applicable to the proposals. The proposal proposes that the new rules should apply from 1 May and cover those persons who have applied for asylum after 1 February. This may mean that a person who has submitted his/her application for asylum before 1 February and who has received or receives a temporary assessment of his/her age will not be able to appeal against this assessment. The Christian Democrats believe that the possibility to appeal against a temporary decision on, or an assessment of, the age of an asylum seeker should cover everyone, regardless of when the asylum application has been lodged. If this is reservation 12. The Christian Democrats further note that the Ombudsman for Children and Unicef Sweden in their referrals state that the Finnish Immigration Service must obtain information from the social services and other persons who have met the asylum seeker before the agency makes a temporary decision on age. The government responds to this in the report and says that the Migration Agency will ensure that there is a sufficient basis for decision-making and, as until now, will have the opportunity to request information from the social services in cases where it can be considered justified and where it can be assumed to contribute to the investigation. Madam President, I would like That is a reasonable answer. But the Christian Democrats would like to stress that it is now up to the government to follow up that the Migration Board actually collects such information in the cases that are needed. About this is reservation 6. Madam President, I would like Finally, the Christian Democrats welcome the fact that the National Board of Forensic Medicine's new methods of medical age assessment are now under way. However, we also welcome the recent decision of the Migration Agency that no new decisions should be taken in asylum cases where age is unclear before the new age assessment methods could be applied. The Christian Democrats think that this is a good thing, but believe that even those who have been given a decision on expulsion, and where the age has been decisive for the decision, should be offered the opportunity to undergo a medical age assessment according to the new methods of the National Board of Forensics before the expulsion decision is implemented. The reason for this is that minors should not risk expulsion because they have applied for a residence permit for a short time before a working method of age assessment was introduced. If this is reservation 9.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-100	Madam President, I would like The committee supports the Government's proposal for amendments to the Aliens Act, which requires age assessments of unaccompanied minors to be made earlier in the asylum process compared to today. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the Social Security Committee's report 18 and reject all reservations. In 2015, a record number of asylum seekers applied to Sweden – almost 163 000. We made every effort to achieve this, and we can be proud of the efforts made by Sweden in the autumn. But the situation finally became untenable. It was then also clear to us that the EU's common asylum policy was not working. The external borders were not maintained, and asylum seekers were allowed to choose for themselves which EU country to apply for asylum in. For Sweden, the refugee situation put the entire asylum system under great pressure. Other key social functions, such as health care, school and social care for children and young people, have also been heavily burdened. The large wave of refugees in autumn 2015 made it clear that our model to carry out age assessment later in the asylum process does not work. This leads, among other things, to many asylum seekers, who are later considered adults, being treated as unaccompanied minors during the asylum process. Apart from having a huge cost to society, where resources for children instead go to adults, it is not good for adults to live with children at HVB homes or support homes. It is unfortunate that adult asylum seekers may be treated as children during the asylum process and thus benefit from the rights and benefits intended for children. This may include placement in particular housing, schooling and health care. In order for the proposal to have the desired effect, an assessment of the applicant's age is required as early as possible. This means that the Migration Agency must investigate the question of the applicant's age more carefully in the initial oral investigation and, where appropriate, give the applicant reasonable advice to consider the question of consent to a medical age assessment. However, where the Authority offers the applicant to undergo a medical age assessment, the refusal of consent without acceptable reasons should lead to the Authority's preliminary assessment, i.e. that the applicant has not made it likely that he or she is under 18 years of age. The Government proposes in the bill that the Migration Agency should assess an alien's age earlier in the asylum process than is being done today. If there is uncertainty as to whether or not an asylum seeker who claims to be an unaccompanied minor is under 18 years of age, the Finnish Immigration Service shall, as soon as possible, carry out an age assessment and take a temporary decision on the age of the applicant. Before a temporary decision is made which means that the applicant is deemed to be 18 years of age or older, the Finnish Immigration Service shall give the applicant the opportunity to undergo a medical age assessment. The Government also proposes that the Finnish Immigration Service's temporary decision be subject to appeal. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats believe that this is a long-awaited change, which can now become a reality as early as 1 May if Parliament agrees with the proposal in the report. I therefore call again for rejection of all twelve reservations and for approval of the proposal contained in the report.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-108	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, we Moderates believe that municipalities should be given the opportunity to request an age assessment. I explained a little bit why we think so. This is simply because the municipalities are the heads of HVB homes. My son-in-law worked for a couple of years in an accommodation for unaccompanied refugee children. He didn't work 24 hours a day, but he worked 24 hours a day. When we talked about his work, I understood because he had come to know these people – in this case boys – very well. He saw when they were happy, he saw when they were sad, he saw when they were angry and he saw when they were abandoned. When such a person, who gets to know people so well, starts to suspect that one of these refugee children is not actually a child, I have to ask Yilmaz Kerimo: What is it that makes the government actually opt out of such an important resource that could judge and discover that we have adults in places where they shouldn't be?
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-110	Madam President, I would like First of all, I find it regrettable that the Moderates who were in power for eight years did not make these changes in the past. Now that we are making these changes to bring forward age assessments, they are still not satisfied. It is appropriate to make earlier age assessments. It's really important. When these people are already at HVB homes, it has been assumed that the Migration Agency has made its assessment according to what has previously applied. Therefore, municipalities should not once again request an age assessment. This has already been done, and it has been estimated that these people are children under the age of 18. There may be some shortcomings. Therefore, measures are now being taken to bring the age assessment forward.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-113	Madam President, I would like I can be self-critical of what we did and didn't do when we were in the government. But I think it is a bad argument from a new government to say: just because you did not do this, neither do we. I think this argument is a little hollow. This area is difficult. But if there are people who get to know these people very well, I have not heard a single good argument for the government opting out of the possibility for municipalities to request an age assessment.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-116	Madam President, I would like When the Migration Agency has placed someone in an HVB home, as in the case of Mikael Cederbratt, it means, as said, that the Migration Agency has made the assessment that the person is a child under 18 years of age. That assessment has been made and there is therefore no reason to question it again. Now, however, we have started with a new process in which the assessment will take place as early as possible, so that any deficiencies that may have occurred previously will not be repeated. Again, we have taken a stand to make these changes, while you were in power for eight years without doing so—even though we have had the same problems in the past.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-118	Madam President, I would like As I said, this is legislation that goes in the right direction but does not go all the way. If you just listened to Yilmaz Kerimo's speech and didn't pay full attention, you might think it sounded pretty good and like the government goes quite far. Kerimo pointed out that the new legal text states that an age assessment should be carried out if there is reason to doubt that the applicant is under 18 years of age. Before deciding that the applicant is considered to be 18 years old, a medical age assessment shall be carried out. However, the difference here is that the medical age assessment should only be carried out if the Migration Agency is considering adjusting the age and not in all unclear cases. I have often heard people believe that it is automatically medical age assessment it is about just talking about age assessment. However, in the only cases where it is really a question of an age assessment if the age is unclear, it may still be an arbitrary, more or less ocular, assessment or an assessment based only on a shorter call and so on. There is no guarantee, therefore, that in the unclear cases there are really hard demands for any kind of evidence. My first question, Madam President, is therefore quite simply why the government and the Social Democrats have chosen to have a legal text that has this hole where there is still a risk of not making medical age assessments in all cases where there is uncertainty. If there are acceptable documents or if it is obvious that a person is underage, it should of course not be necessary, but it is also possible to insert such passages instead of leaving a large, open gap for arbitrary age assessment in the future.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-122	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, there should be an opportunity if there are ambiguities. If the applicant cannot prove his or her age, he or she can make a temporary decision and offer a medical assessment of his or her age. It's an offer, and you have to have consent. What I understand from you, Paula Bieler, is that you want a collective decision that applies to all who are minors. Everyone needs to be examined. In this case, those who can prove their age have done so, and if they have not proved their age, the Finnish Immigration Service may initially make a temporary decision and offer the applicant a medical examination. However, it should not be collective so that everyone should do so. If you suspect something, it should be done. It's an offer to the applicant.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-124	Madam President, I would like Then you have unfortunately misunderstood my question, Yilmaz Kerimo. I'm not saying everyone should always have a medical age assessment. I was just saying that in cases where it is obvious that the person is a minor should not be needed. If proof of identity documents which are clearly valid, it shall not be necessary either. The problem is that where it says that age assessment should be done, linked to the unclear cases, it says just There is still a gap where the age assessment carried out if there is uncertainty does not need to be based on a scientific basis. If the Migration Agency's administrator makes an age assessment on any basis and says that a person is probably under 18 – perhaps because it is easier to make that decision or whatever – there is no guarantee that it is the person who has proven to be under 18 years of age. There is no such requirement, and I wonder why you have that hatch. I'd like to take this opportunity to ask you another question. As I mentioned in my speech, the Migration Board only spoke in January that there are about 19 000 – 20 000 open cases where a large part could be considered for age assessments. Nevertheless, the government chooses to present a legislative proposal covering only those registered from February onwards. All these 20 000 cases, which were then open, are therefore not covered by the legislation. Why would you choose that date? Why is there a gap where the Migration Agency's administrators can still make age assessments on virtually any basis and where there are no scientific requirements for age assessment if there is uncertainty about age?
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-128	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say once again that a temporary decision should be taken if you are unsure, and it can be made on, for example, psychosocial or other social grounds, or oral talks. You can obtain information from social services to make a temporary decision. The next step is to offer medical age assessment. I have said it before, and I say it again. With regard to the second question, the whole proposal is that the assessments should be made earlier. If we go a long way back, the assessments will not be brought forward, but they will be older. In this case, we want it to be as early as possible, and then three months is just enough time to make earlier age assessments in the process. That's why it doesn't make sense to go really far back. I would also like to emphasise that 84% of unaccompanied minors stay. They'll get approval. According to the forecast, 84% have been approved. Of these, 81% are Afghan children, but a total of 84% are allowed to stay. For the other 16%, age may be unclear, and that is when you look at this. This is all about bringing the age assessment forward, so you go back longer – as you wish, Paula Bieler – you end up very wrong.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-131	Madam President, I would like One wrong decision for a child, because that's when you're under the age of 18, is a wrong decision too much. You should have a chance to get a fair assessment and stay in Sweden if you are under 18 years of age, not get the age adjusted. On 1 May, this new one will enter into force, and I therefore wonder whether all those who have now been rejected should not be allowed to be reconsidered under the new law and have a legally certain age assessment. Should it not also be possible to be tested on the basis of the age you had when you arrived here? One cannot help it because the process has taken several years and that during that time one may have been over 18 years, which means that one would be rejected on a basis that would not have applied if we had had a migration agency that had made previous assessments.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-133	Madam President, I would like Everyone has the right to appeal. If you have received the decision that you do not meet certain requirements and are to be expelled, you have the right to appeal against it. We assume that the Migration Agency in the individual case has made the assessment that the person could not prove his or her age, and we trust this. We are not going into individual cases, but there have been shortcomings. That is precisely why we are taking this initiative, in order to make age assessments safer. The burden of proof is always on the applicant, and when you appeal, you have to prove your age. If this has not been done, it means that the Migration Agency has made that assessment. It is an overall assessment that takes into account data collected from social services, psychosocial conditions and oral interviews. All of this gives an overall picture. If such a decision is taken, it means that the applicant has not been able to prove his or her age. That is precisely why we do not think that this should be offered retroactively. This is about bringing it forward in the process, and that is why three months is a reasonable time.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-136	Madam President, I would like What sets us apart from, for example, Swedish democrats is that we know that there are more young people whose age has been adjusted. As a result, they have had to leave the country on totally uncertain grounds. We believe that it would make a huge difference if cases were now reviewed and the age of applicants were taken into account when they arrived. If you were 16 when you arrived and the process has taken more than two years, you will be expelled on rather uncertain grounds, I would say. If you have not made the assessment that has now become more legally certain, it may also have been the fault. When there are open processes, you should be given the opportunity to be tried on the basis of the age you were in when you arrived. It would be possible to do so. Would it not be for a social democrat to consider children and young people?
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-139	Madam President, I would like I assume that the Migration Agency has done its utmost to determine the age as accurately as possible by collecting data from social services and by looking at psychosocial conditions. By making an overall assessment, decisions have then been taken. Sometimes it's taken longer. It's been like that before. But with this change, it will be quick and much faster. Again, I do not think there is any reason to change this. Three months is enough to get into an early stage of the asylum process and not to take retroactive decisions.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-141	Madam President, I would like I am in favour of Amendment No 4, and otherwise I support the committee's proposal in the report. It is clear that when we are now debating road safety in this House, our thoughts go to those affected by the bus accident this weekend. Of course, we think of the relatives, parents, friends, students and all who were affected. It gives us thought: life is fragile. We, as politicians, must do our utmost to prevent this type of accident from occurring. I would like to say that we have a good basis on which to stand: we have the zero vision. I can have some respect for the fact that, as an opposition, you want the parliament to make an announcement and ask the government to come back with things – if you have something concrete to suggest. But I do not see that there is any such thing in what the majority is proposing. You want a strategy for safer roads. Let's back off the tape and see what the zero vision is. Zero vision is a completely unique and, I would say, very Swedish creation. It is a product of a collaboration where researchers look at causation: What is actually to be done to prevent people from getting killed in traffic? It is also an effect of cooperation where the people's movement has been actively involved. NTF, sobriety organisations, MHF and several others have participated in the zero vision work. We politicians in this House have decided that the zero vision should exist and that we are prepared to make the legislative changes needed to make it a reality and to make the investments needed to make the roads safe. We are prepared to ensure that the right measures are taken. It is, of course, also about the state authorities. This applies not only to the Swedish Transport Administration, or the Swedish Road Administration at the time, but also to the Swedish National Police Board. Zerovision is a unique collaboration between science, peoples' movements, politics, actors, i.e. Sweden's Åkeri company, taxi and the state authorities. By doing so, we have been able to achieve that in Sweden, compared to other countries, there is little risk of being harmed when you are on the road. We should not be content with this. The target we have set for a maximum of 220 deaths by 2020 requires renewed efforts. But then you'll have to see what's effective. We argue on the part of the majority that we should be fairly careful of the roads. Taking care of roads is not just about spending money on maintenance, it is about ensuring that the roads are not damaged. Then you'll see what breaks down a road. It is not passenger cars, it is not bicycles, it is not mopeds and it is actually very small buses. It's about heavier trucks. We need heavier trucks in this country to transport forest products, but we are concerned by the cooperation government that they should not be used when transferring to other modes of transport is possible or where there is a risk of damaging the road. This is done in areas where there are frost damage. This is not so much true in the country I come from, but in large parts of the country the road is fragile when the temperature commutes between plus and minus. Then you should not have too heavy vehicles on the road, because then you risk getting the pits that can cause accidents for others. It is also a question of controlling vehicles. There have been rather worrying signals that the situation of the employees and the maintenance of buses has been pushed so that one may not be as sure as before that things are being handled as they should. I do not intend to anticipate the investigations in any way, because I have no insight into this. I assume that the accident investigations that are being carried out will tell us what the reason was in the present case. I remember when I was new to the Transport Committee. At the time, there was a party here in the Riksdag that wanted to remove the seatbelts, because they thought it was a restriction of freedom to wear a seatbelt when you go. One may think that it is a restriction of freedom, but it is also a fairly large restriction of freedom to get rid of one's life. We are concerned, and it is part of the zero vision, that the protective equipment to be provided to protect both those in the vehicle and others should be used. Here we have a factor that I did not mention before but which is important in order to explain why Sweden compared to other countries has a fairly safe traffic. It's about the automotive industry. They have been active in developing and taking the necessary protective measures. Let us now look to the future, because the subject here is not some kind of history lecture. What else can we do? What are we going to do to reach the target of a maximum of 220 deaths by 2020? And what are we going to set for the future? The overall objective of traffic has been changed to include it in the role of traffic to contribute to health. It is an urgent objective to contribute to increased health and to postpone or avoid public diseases. It is a scourge for all the people affected, but it is also a serious obstacle to us who want to carry out political reforms in this House that we have problems with sick leave and that people do not feel well. I recently wrote an article together with a researcher in Helsingborg's Dagblad that shows that at least 30 minutes of pulse-enhancing activity per day is a pretty good way to try to postpone or reduce the risk of suffering from public diseases. How do you do that? A natural way is to cycle to and from the place you are going to – either school or work. I believe that we should intertwin the work for road safety and to reduce injuries with the work on improving health. Of course, we should have protective equipment and other things, but we should not have anything that hampers people's active mobility and makes them drive or travel if the route makes the choice realistic. What does this government do? We have a reservation on the part of the Cooperation Government saying that there is no basis for an announcement. What the government has done is to initiate an investigation into reduced base rates in urban areas. The basic speeds are important for people to dare to move to active mobility. There are still cities where parents do not want the children to get around because they fear that the children will be hit by motorists driving too fast. It is therefore important that we can agree to lower the speed of the bike so that the choice between the bike and the car becomes easier and feels safer for those who perform it. We have looked and turned and turned the issue of alco-boms. I do not think there is any difference among us in committee, but we agree that there should be no alcohol in your blood when you get behind the wheel of a heavy vehicle. I think we are all just as eager to make sure that this thing is settled once and for all before there is any new accident. We are interested in looking at how to use communication equipment. It can be said that this is one of the few areas of road safety where Sweden does not stand up very well in competition with other countries. I believe that only Russia has an equally liberal approach to the extent to which the driver himself chooses whether to do texting and other things. Certainly there has been a slight tightening up so that you can hold people to account if it is possible to prove negligence, but according to the experience I have gained from the Police Authority this evidence is quite difficult. It is probably time that we take this one step further and perhaps do as has been done in other countries where drivers simply have to drive aside if they are to engage in communication equipment that can draw attention from the steering wheel. I think we have a good chance of moving forward in this. I would also like to remind you that the speed is extremely important both for the occurrence of accidents and for preventing accidents from having a fatal or serious outcome. The introduction of automatic speed monitoring is one of the major reasons why zero vision has been successful. Earlier they thought: Build safer roads. The announcement has a scent of the discussion from the last century that if you build safer roads, it all solves itself. However, when you look at the causes of accidents, you see that the speed in which the vehicle is being driven is crucial, partly because of an accident and partly because of the consequences. What was at first incredibly controversial, that is to say that the speed of the camera was monitored and that it was possible to prevent accidents – the aim was not to bring down as many people as possible, but to keep the speed limits on the signs – has been a very cost-effective investment. As a small side matter, I can say that it has been a cost-effective investment not only to reduce the risk of accidents but also to reduce the climate impact of traffic. After all, the speed is directly proportional to the amount of CO2 emitted when the vehicle is being driven. As I understand it, the Swedish Transport Administration and the Police Authority are building this system now, so we may not need any further initiatives on our part. But to understand why the zero vision is something that others are interested in – foreign delegations come here to study this – one must understand this with ATK. Another thing is the rebuilding of roads to two-plus-one with centre wire. This has led to irritation in many places – I do not know how many emails, letters and phone calls I have received in connection with this – but when you look at the research it is easy to note that you can make a stretch of meeting free you reduce the risk of accidents occurring, especially fatal accidents. It may limit speed, but it is not certain that it is necessarily a negative thing. Having two-plus-one with middle wire can make it easier for people to keep a signposted speed. I think it must be realised that, although one may sometimes be in a hurry somewhere and be annoyed by not getting there fast enough, it is our very firm view that one should be able to travel safely on the roads. No one should have to receive such information as the relatives received this week. I think that we should work together here in Parliament.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-166	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by regretting the accident that occurred in Härjedalen this weekend. It is extremely tragic and, of course, I look forward to the investigation now under way into what has caused this. There is a lot of speculation in the media about inspection, vehicle checks and other things, so it is satisfying to have this investigated so that we can find out what caused the accident. It is time to deal with the annual road safety report. It is one of the questions in the Riksdag that leads to many aroused motions. The entire 89 requests for exercise here are linked to the general exercise time. I think this is very positive, because it means that it is an issue that involves citizens in our constituencies who have views on everything from two plus-one routes to speed limits and efforts to increase road safety. That is an objective of all of us in this House and, perhaps, of course, of us working on these issues in the Committee on Transport on a daily basis. Sweden is very well represented in the statistics on the number of road deaths in the EU. Together with Malta, we are the lowest in Europe. Nevertheless, we want to continue the fight to reach zero vision to the full. You should feel safe in the traffic environment whether you are a pedestrian, a cyclist, a motorcyclist or a motorist or travelling on our roads and in the municipal traffic environment. Road safety work must also start on time. We Social Democrats therefore welcome the work being done by the school leaders to get more children to understand the importance of good and responsible road safety work. But it also feels like we need to do more. Previously, there was quite strong support for various organisations that worked with road safety work. Then the bourgeois government chose to change the support. They did not have the educational work they had had before. I feel like we need to find a new way. I'm not saying that it should be exactly the same, because times change, but in any case it feels like a national effort is needed on children's safety and children's traffic environments. Of course, municipal authorities also have a huge responsibility to ensure that they have protected traffic environments for children when they get to and from schools. In the past it was very common to cycle or go to school. Today it is common to drive a car to school — more common than walking or cycling. It is, of course, a rather complex issue. On the one hand, it is about the traffic environment, and on the other hand it is about security in society. The question is therefore multi-divided. The public health perspective is one aspect and another is that it is important to get a habit to stay in the traffic environment. It is important that we work on this issue and try to invest in parts that can facilitate so that you also feel safe in your environment. Alcohol and driving is another issue on which we have worked a lot in committee. I feel just like Karin Svensson Smith that there is a strong consensus about alco-bommers. We are now waiting for a strong proposal to introduce alcoboms in our ports where we have foreign traffic, especially where we have connection with foreign ports. Unfortunately, there are too many people, both in heavy traffic and in passenger car traffic, who are currently carrying alcohol in their bodies. It's really a matter of putting a stop to it. We have seen good examples of the efforts that have been made with the tests of alcoboms and other things. We therefore welcome the Government's forthcoming efforts to introduce beams in our ports. The next question I was going to raise is with mobile telephony and driving. Already in 2006, the Swedish Parliament decided that a driver should minimise other activities that interfere with driving itself. We made an announcement in this House that had been prepared in our committee, the Committee on Transport. Subsequently, the Riksdag has on several occasions issued announcements to the Government to return with suggestions on how to minimise the interference of elements that affect the traffic environment while travelling. On 24 April 2017, the Swedish Transport Agency's investigation will be reported to the Government. It will propose appropriate measures to address the problem of mobile telephony and other communication equipment while travelling. Today, it's not only mobiles you use when you travel in a car, it's also other things that disturb your attention, such as Ipads and razors– yes, you realize that there are many different things used in driving when you look at the traffic environment around our country. It feels like it is very important to find proposals to strengthen road safety and to restrict or even prohibit the use of mobile phones in the future. We have been clear from our side that we are prepared to legislate if this work is not successful. But now, as I said, we are waiting for the Swedish Transport Agency's investigation, which will be delivered at the end of April. The third issue I want to raise is the road safety of motorcyclists. There's work on it going on. Karin Svensson Smith well illustrated the work that is going on with regard to our roads. So it is not just about the roads but also about a lot around our roads when it comes to safety, protection and other parts. The government really has that part of road safety in its eyes. This shows, not least, the new start-up of zero vision work. There is work going on with our motorcyclists. In national collaboration, six expert groups are working to influence and develop proposals on how to better protect vulnerable road users on two wheels. The Finnish Transport Agency also carries out intensive work in order to increase road safety for vulnerable road users. In addition, SMC, Sweden's Motorcyclists, has produced a good document with proposals for measures. There is a great deal of commitment around our country. We must also push for this to happen. And it does so through the work that the government has now initiated on the new start. In this connection, I would like to mention that the bourgeois parties, together with the Swedish Democrats, are proposing that the Riksdag should address an announcement to the government, precisely as regards the national strategy for road safety work. I think it's pretty overpowering. We have a government that is really working on the issue and that has raised the issue of re-launching the zero vision. I can have some respect for the desire to pursue matters by means of an announcement, if there is any justification for that. In this case, however, it does not feel like there is, but rather that it is an expression of other policies. Finally, I would like to mention briefly the national cycling strategy. We've been waiting for that. We've had a lot of questions about it. The committee has been working on the national cycle strategy. Bicycle is an issue that the committee is passionate about and is engaging around our country. This shows, not least, the debate that we had on cycling in Gothenburg just over a month ago. There were many speeches, but also a great deal of consensus between the political parties. The national cycle strategy is under way. I look forward to dealing with it in our committee in the future, perhaps also in this House – a little depending on how the matter is handled. Madam President, I would like I would like to support the committee's proposal in TU11 and reject all reservations, except for reservation 2.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-185	Madam President, I would like The serious road accident this weekend casts a shadow over our debate today. Our thoughts go to the relatives. The basis for all road safety work is zero vision. The aim is that no one should die in road accidents on Swedish roads. Unfortunately, we haven't reached all the way. Last year, 261 people died in road accidents around the country. 37 of these were motorcyclists. Every year 250 motorcyclists are badly injured. Some people get hurt so badly that they get crippled for the rest of their lives. We have a set milestone which means that the number of road fatalities should be reduced by 50% over the period 2007-2020. Over the same period of time, the number of seriously injured should be reduced by 25%. But we still have a lot of work to do. Clearly, it takes more than what is being done today to achieve our goals and to make zero vision a reality. Road safety issues simply need to be given higher priority than today. The committee therefore proposes that the Riksdag address an announcement to the Government that the Swedish Transport Administration should be tasked with developing a strategy to ensure that roads are safer for all road users, including motorcyclists, in future road safety work. There is much that can be done. One can, for example, fix ill - thought - out and dangerous road tracks that are decorated with large stones. These will be weapons of death if an unprotected roadman is hurled against them. Another example is not to have road railings with protruding poles and sharp edges. It should be self-evident to choose a railing type that reduces the risk of injury to all road users. There is also more to be desired when it comes to signage. In many countries there are signs showing the length, radius of the curve and whether there are crossing roads. This kind of curve map gives motorcyclists very valuable information when it comes to the choice of speed and track selection into the curve. Smooth metal surfaces on the roads, well lids, steel plates and the like can also be treated with a variety of techniques that increase friction when wet and reduce the risk of motorcyclists and mopedists getting cord. Unfortunately, driving a vehicle on the road always involves a risk, no matter how used the driver is and how careful you are yourself. We do not control all circumstances. Our responsibility in this House is to do what we can to ensure that that risk is as close to zero as possible. It is unacceptable that in 2017, people still lose their lives in accidents on Swedish roads. Madam President, I would like It's hard to find out exactly how big the black economy is. Cheating exists in most industries, and traffic schools are unfortunately no exception. Black traffic schools, i.e. schools without permits, where the people behind them do not pay VAT or employers' contributions, are becoming increasingly common in the country. And they're becoming more sophisticated. In some cases, the black business is so large and well organized that the students do not understand that they have hired an illegal traffic school. Rules on how many students one and the same person can supervise at the same time are circumvented in order to maximise the profits of the illegal activity. There is no insurance required, and taxes and contributions are not paid. Apart from the fact that the illegal driving schools are competing out the legal ones, the young people who want to take a driving licence are fooling. They endanger both their students and fellow road users because they do not have the skills to teach someone to drive in a professional way. We must take the problem seriously. In 2015, the Government commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency to analyse the regulation of transport schools and trainers, and to propose constitutional changes in order to achieve simple and effective rules for access and supervision. The police and the Swedish Transport Agency are working together to combat the presence of black driving schools. There is also cooperation between the Swedish Transport Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Ecocrime Agency. It's a good start, but it takes more. It should not be possible to conduct illegal driving licence training in Sweden without any risk. Trials with digital learning protocols are under way, and when this is introduced it is important that it be cheat-proof. Madam President, I would like There must be clear laws and rules in a society, and there should be no breach of them without risking sanctions. If we discover loopholes in existing legislation, these must be closed. On several occasions, driverless drivers have been caught in police checks. Yet, these drivers have not been convicted of any crime. The drivers have succeeded in this because they have claimed that their foreign driving licences have been lost. In cases where the driver comes from a country with a poor licence record, it is difficult or impossible to check the data. Since it is up to the prosecutor to prove that a crime has been committed, the drivers are free. There is no requirement for persons who are not registered in the country to hold a Swedish driving licence. That's why you can't be judged for illegal driving either. Once you have been registered, you have one year to obtain a Swedish driving licence, but until then it is almost risk free to drive a car without a valid driving licence. Today's legislation has not kept pace with developments with all the necessary clarity. It is on the verge of naive to hope that no one takes advantage of opportunities to circumvent the legislation, if it is risk-free, It also sends a signal that Swedish law does not need to be respected. Today's situation is both unfortunate and unreasonable. The deliberate violation of laws and regulations without the police being able to do anything risks further undermining confidence in the judiciary. This is another example of a known problem in terms of road safety that can continue. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to mention one of my heart issues, the Malmö– Helsingborg section on road E6. This stretch is extremely accident-affected. Every day the road is shut down because of cars that crash. Thankfully, it is very rarely about fatal accidents, but yet it is about accidents that cost society a lot of money and create unnecessary suffering. According to the chairman of the Transport Committee, there is no need to extend the E6 to a six-lane motorway. It is both negligent and directly irresponsible to actively choose not to do anything about such a tangible and known problem. By extending this route there would be a capacity increase on one of Sweden's busiest roads. This would drastically reduce the risk of accidents for those travelling on a road where accidents now occur on a daily basis. If the chairman of the committee and the government are serious about sticking to the zero vision, this should of course be one of the top priority infrastructure initiatives. I know that the S ocial democrats in Skåne believe that this is an urgent initiative. You wonder what the Socialist colleagues in the Committee on Transport think. Are you prepared to compromise road safety in Skåne just to avoid offending your government partner, the Environmental Party? Where did the responsibility to the voters go? I could not ask any question to Johan Andersson because he was before me in the order of speaking. Now I hope he will ask for a reply and answer the question: when will the cycling strategy come? You have promised and moved the date on several occasions. I want a simple answer: When? Madam President, I would like Of course, we Moderates are behind all our reservations, but for time winning I only agree to reservation 13.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-210	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 4, not of reservation 2. I'm sorry I got the numbers wrong. Reservation 4 is our joint reservation from S, V and MP. Thank you for your questions, Boriana! I asked for the floor before you asked me to speak to you. But I have a couple of questions for you, too, to which I would like answers. I listened attentively, but you did not mention in one word this with mobile telephony and driving. How do you moderates view that question? In the past, we have felt rather opposed when this issue has been up in committee. There have been announcements to previous governments from 2006 onwards, and it has been on the initiative of the Social Democrats, the Environment Party and the Left in particular. This investigation will now come on 24 April 2017, and it is clear that we should not anticipate it. But I wonder: is there any other country in Europe – just as Karin Svensson Smith described it – that has such liberal legislation as we have? We know that there is a major problem today in traffic. I would like an answer to that question. You asked me two questions. I'll answer one now and the other in the next line. When it comes to the E6 through Skåne, there is now an action plan in connection with the infrastructure bill. The Finnish Transport Agency will submit its documentation to the Ministry on 31 August. Then it will be prepared, and then it will come back for a government decision. There are lots of objects around the country. We are well aware that this is a path of problems. Let's wait for Trafikverket's documentation before we decide how to solve it.
i-AUi14FaQEE7d1nYReZ783N	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Andersson, for the question! I have earlier here from the speaker's chair told you how we Moderates view the ban on the use of mobile phones. We are in favour of banning anything that interferes with driving. The mobile phone itself is not the problem, it is the user. The reckless use of the phone while in a dangerous traffic situation is already prohibited. We also object to the fact that these are mobile phones. There are so many other distractions. You can have children in the car who scream in the back seat or drop their pacifiers or toys. Should we ban children in the car? A parent with a screaming child in the car is a much bigger problem than a mobile phone ringing. Technology is evolving. You don't have to have a handheld cell phone. There are voice controls with large screens built into the new cars. We must be against what disturbs and not against the technology itself, in this case mobile phones. Another major problem with people not being prosecuted when using mobile phones when driving dangerously is the lack of police officers. You've really made sure that cops quit their jobs. They don't have time to patrol the roads.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-221	Madam President, I would like I do not know if I was so much wiser about your position on mobile telephony, children and whatever it was. I asked a simple question about mobile telephony and the Moderates' position. But we must wait until the proposal comes from the Swedish Transport Agency and then take a position. Maybe we can talk about it in committee. Of course there are other technologies for this. The purpose of the investigation to be submitted by the Swedish Transport Agency to the Government is precisely to look at what distractions one should be able to fix. Boriana also brought up the police. Perhaps I should remind you of the reorganisation of the police force, which took place during the last parliamentary term. Much of these changes were then made. What we in the cooperation government are now trying to do is, of course, to fix the system where the holes are. They're in a lot of places. We have made efforts and will make further efforts to get more police in the organization. Boriana also asked me a question about the bicycle strategy and wondered when it would come. I can only say it will come soon. "Soon" means in the near future. I am fully aware that it has taken time, but if we wait for something good, it will hopefully be very good. There is a broad consensus in this House on bicycle issues. That is why the government wanted to ensure that it is as good a strategy as possible. That is my simple answer.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-226	Madam President, I would like As far as the police are concerned, you've been in power for over two years. If you want to do something, you can do it. You don't have to look back and blame the previous government. There is talk of cooperation, but with regard to the cycling strategy, you have come up with many conflicting tasks. It'll be almost like a reverse Peter and the wolf. The wolf comes, the wolf comes, but this time we wait for something good that never comes. This time it concerns the bicycle strategy that was announced to the government. It is natural for those of us who do not belong to the government to suspect that the so-called cooperation parties, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, do not get along very well. The thing about cooperation seems to be a confession of the lips. Therefore, I would like to receive a promise from Johan Andersson that the E6 will not be another concession for the Green Party. You have to make sure that people get to and back from their jobs without getting hurt or wasting a lot of hours standing in traffic.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-229	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg and I come from the same constituency. I remember when our parties met in Kävlinge during the election campaign. The first thing Borianas's friends brought up with me was: What are you doing about the noise from the highway? It'll lower the values of our villas. O ch it is difficult to live next to the n, because there is so much truck traffic. It brings me immediately to the question you raised in your speech, Boriana. You're going back to the time that existed before zero vision. Then the cities were extended for the sake of the cars, and all traffic between the cities was extended for cars. It was believed that the problems would be solved by road expansion. The problems were not solved that way, however, because more roads lead to more traffic. When it comes to the E6 we know that four out of five trucks have neither start nor goal in Skåne. They come in via the harbour to Trelleborg or over the bridge or via the harbour to Malmö and will then continue. Does Boriana Åberg not think it would be more rational to use the Swedish coast and 52 ports to transport the goods that are currently transit traffic on the E6? Why should the motorway be extended to the permanent situation where trucks take what shipping and the railways could do better? Instead, as we do in the cooperation government, we can find a reasonable economic balance between shipping, rail and lorry traffic so that each mode does what it is best at.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-233	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Svensson Smith, for the question. There have been slightly more cars in Skåne since before the zero vision. These cars are used, and then roads are needed. You can't look back and dream your way back to a world where you were moved with a horse and a carriage. You have to look forward. This is particularly important in terms of infrastructure. Today we are planning for infrastructure which once it is ready is already too old. That's why you have to look very far ahead. Karin Svensson Smith and I have debated lorries several times. Both you and our side have then agreed on the transfer of goods from road to sea in cases where possible. But there are many industries that depend on being able to transport their products from where they are produced to the nearest port. Then roads must be used. The cooperation government claims to be thinking of economic balance, but you are prepared to spend a lot of money on a high-speed road that not many people are asking for. However, you are not prepared to make it easier for people who commute to their jobs to thus generate taxes that politicians, in this case, can use for our welfare.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-237	Madam President, I would like I think that all of us who are at some point on the E6 between Malmö and Helsingborg do not think that there are too few trucks there. At least I've never heard that reaction, nor from your friends. However, there is a coast and 52 ports that are not very well used. It would be reasonable, especially for those responsible for shipping their party, if we think that we have a good potential here. We do not need to invest anything, it is just a fair distribution. What is the effect of expanding cars in cities and between cities? This is one of the reasons why we are now in an oil dependence. The truck is excellent, and it is needed. But then it is a question of moving where shipping and rail do not work. This is not the case in Skåne. Four out of five trucks have neither take-off nor goal there. Road E6 would work perfectly well if the coast and shipping were used. I do not understand why Boriana Åberg and the Moderates have a fundamental opposition to using the water to transport goods.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-241	Madam President, I would like There's no resistance to using the water to transport cargo. There is also no contradiction between investments in the E6 and investments in ports. We all know that most of the Scanian ports do not have a brilliant infrastructure, whether it be roads or railways. Karin Svensson Smith is very well informed. In Malmö harbour, a distance needs to be covered by both road and rail. The situation on Dragongatan in Ystad has been going on for a long time and causes traffic jams and emissions. This could easily have been eliminated if the so-called ‘co-operation government' had listed these items on its list of measures, or at least given instructions to put them on the list of measures. We are in favour of phasing out fossil fuels. We should not ban motorism or ensure that roads become crowded, uncomfortable and overloaded. Instead, we will ensure that people drive environmentally friendly cars and electric cars. We're gonna have electrified roads for trucks. The extension of the E6 is also very much about the people commuting. They do not commute in trucks, but in ordinary passenger cars. It is about people who are both mine and Karin Svensson Smiths's voters, and I hope that we can agree on an extension.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-244	Madam President, I would like This is probably the most important debate during the national year. It is about road safety, which affects everyone and everyone in our everyday lives. Especially after the tragic bus accident in Härjedalen, we can come to realize that. Madam President, I would like We support all of our reservations and also our specific opinion. But for time winning, I only ask for reservations 6 and 19. I would like to begin by telling you about our reservation 7, which deals with the speed of our roads. Since the last government decided in 2009 to change the speed limits, so that even 40, 60, 80 and on our motorways 120 kilometres an hour would be allowed, the Finnish Transport Agency has implemented many speed reductions of 10 and sometimes 20 kilometres an hour, while the increases have been very few. I would like to emphasise strongly that speed limits should be set solely on the basis of road safety aspects. Furthermore, if other reasons are used, confidence in the speed limits will disappear. We must note that this has unfortunately been the case. The Finnish Transport Agency wants 80 percent of motorists to respect all speed limits. That is not the case today. On several roads, speeds have been reduced too much, not least in northern Sweden. In the past, it was 90 kilometres an hour on most stretches in northern Sweden. These are straight and narrow roads. Now the Swedish Transport Administration has reduced to 80 kilometres per hour. As a result, motorists and motorcyclists lose respect for current speed signs. In the hall of driving 90 kilometers per hour, many people today ignore 80 and instead drive 100 - 110. You have to respect the speed limit that applies on a road. I can take an example from the areas where I live, namely E6 between Trelleborg and Malmö. In the past, the speed limit was lowered from 110 kilometres per hour to 90 kilometres per hour the last two kilometres into Malmö. Today, the speed limit is reduced to 60 kilometers per hour — on a four - lane highway. As a result, motorists who in the past lowered their speed from 110 to 90 kilometres per hour today do not care to reduce their speed at all. You blow in towards Malmö at 110 kilometers an hour where it says 60, because you have lost respect for the speed signs. Moreover, since today we have a situation where there is a greater chance of seeing a golden eagle in the sky than a traffic police officer on the road, many people do not care about speed limits. The only people who are currently caught in a speed check are basically those who get caught in a speed camera. These speed cameras are also educationally signposted a few hundred meters before. If you get caught in a speed camera, you're pretty screwed up, or you're sitting with your mobile phone and sending text messages or playing Wordfeud. Jimmy Ståhl will later address the problem of sitting with a mobile phone in the car. As I said, the speed fundamentalists at Trafikverket have caused people to lose respect for current speed signs, as two members of the Transport Committee have bitterly experienced by getting rid of the driving licence. Our reservation 2 is that we want it to be forbidden to drive if a stagnant school shot picks up or leaves a child. I would like to draw attention to the fact that fatal accidents and serious injuries involving children occur all too often in connection with boarding and boarding from school shootings. It is clear that the current warning system with yellow flashing lights on the school pushers does not have the desired effect. Many testify to the fact that there are motorists who pass school shootings at too high a speed. Instead, replacing the yellow flashing light with a red fixed light and a statutory ban would minimise the risk of fatal accidents and damage associated with embarkation. For example, a ban on passing school shootings that have stopped for boarding or boarding has been introduced in the United States. The results are reported to be very good. I believe that the government should therefore ban the re-run of stagnant school shootings. The Traffic Regulation 3 Chapter. Paragraph 15 says:aside from other cases specified in particular, drivers must maintain a sufficiently low speed... when the vehicle approaches... a school shot. What is a sufficiently low speed, Madam President? Let me give you an example. When you invite friends to your home for dinner in the evening and the friends are going home again, you often say: Drive home carefully! It's a little bit to insure itself... in case something happens, it's not even your own fault. If the friends drive away and come home safely, everything is peace and joy. If the brothers drive in the ditch and injure themselves, you can think: But I told them to drive home carefully! Yet they hurt themselves! The same is true when it comes to passing school shootings. The law states that the driver should maintain a sufficiently low speed in the circumstances. If the speed limit is 90 kilometers per hour, the driver may think it is low enough to pass a school shot at 50 kilometers per hour. That motorist can't be convicted of that. Only if the driver drives on a school child can it be observed that the driver did not keep the speed of the car low enough. That is why I think there must be a change of law. If there is a stationary school shooting, it shall be red light and unauthorised to pass this school shooting. Our reservation 21 is about banning moped and bike driving on two-plus-one roads. Today there are many so-called two-plus-one paths. This means that the roads have been divided into three lanes, one of which alternately belongs to one direction or another. Many of these roads are common highways that have been rebuilt. The third file has been added at the expense of the road user, the same road that mopeds and cyclists usually use to facilitate faster traffic. However, two-plus-one roads are dangerous for cyclists and mopedists. This is because they have been referred to a generally very narrow, sometimes almost non-existent, road user on these motorways. It's as thin as 20 centimeters. Earlier on these roads there were broad roadsides, which provided some shelter for the two-wheelers. Now that space has been shrunk to a few inches. It's slimmer than a bike handler. Those who continue to use the road thereby expose themselves to an extremely high risk of injury. Of course, passing a few decimetres by motor traffic at 100 kilometres per hour is contrary to every syllable in the zero vision. Paradoxically, cycling and moped skiing is prohibited on motorways and motorways, where the road is usually one and a half meters wide. For a cyclist or mopedist it is therefore safer to cycle and drive a moped on a motorway, where it is forbidden, than on a two-plus-one road. Madam President, I would like Our reservation 19, which I proposed to approve, concerns those of us motorcyclists who are so devastating in steel and cable rails. I would like to start by drawing attention to the fact that the zero vision, the long-term goal of no one being killed or injured in traffic, is almost 20 years old. One aspect of the vision has been to reduce the number of deaths in collisions by introducing railings, both to separate road tracks and to prevent downhill skiing. For cost reasons, Sweden has chosen to approve unprotected steel railings, which for us motorcyclists have proved to be devastating. I note that the so-called 'consideration' objective means that the design, operation and use of the transport system must be adapted so that no one is killed or seriously injured. Nevertheless, I can note that in the government's re-launch of the zero vision there are no real measures or earmarked funds allocated for accident prevention in relation to motorcycle accidents in connection with railing collisions. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, a larger proportion of motorcyclists die on European roads than in other comparable countries, and Sweden has for several years had the world's highest share of motorcyclists killed due to railing accidents. Only in the period 2014 – 2016 15 people died, and since the turn of the millennium 66 motorcyclists have lost their lives. An example is the Tanum – Halmstad section on the E6, where four people died in less than a year. I think the rest of you don't really understand how easy it is to run down on a motorcycle. The vast majority of motorcycles and mopeds have two wheels, which makes them unique in relation to other motor vehicles. It offers great benefits in terms of accessibility in congestion and queue formation. But all two-wheeled vehicles depend on stability and friction. Friction is of the utmost importance. Any obstacle on the roadway that reduces or removes the connection between the tyre and the roadway is a potential risk. It can be unevenness, trace formations, cracks, gravel, sand, slippery coating, road marking, well lids etc. In Trelleborg we have problems with something called the Maglarpsrondel, where all the trucks coming from the continent are full. In the Maglarpsrondellen it splashes out diesel through the leaky filler caps. It's no problem as long as it's dry out. But when the first rain comes, there'll be snot in the roundabout. There are many motorcyclists who have failed. They've been at low speed, but they've slipped. I can tell you about my own experience. A number of years ago when I was driving, I came to a curve. Speed was 90 kilometers an hour. In the middle of the curve, Trafikverket had been out laying tar and gravel to repair the road. I didn't stand a chance. The bike just went to bed and cascade. Me and the motorcycle went right out into the ditch. If it had been a cable railing or a steel railing alongside that road, I would not have stood in this chair today, Madam President. The reason why Sweden stands out so clearly in the statistics is, in my opinion, that, unlike many other countries, we allow road railings with unprotected poles and that railings are allowed to be placed very close to the roadside. Today, the Swedish Parliament will address an announcement to the government – now listen carefully, Karin Svensson Smith and Johan Andersson – that it should give the Swedish Transport Administration the task of developing a strategy to ensure in future road safety work that roads are safer for all road users, including motorcyclists. In the report, the Swedish Democrats have a special opinion stating that we are in favour of the announcement, but we would have liked the announcement to have been clearer and sharper in relation to the devastating steel and cable railings. The Committee therefore stresses that the need for greater safety for motorcyclists and the issue of the construction of road rails should be addressed in a strategy because the railings, as they are designed today, present a major risk to motorcyclists. ..................................................... Karin Svensson Smith lacked something concrete in the announcement. I do not know whether it can be more concrete than this announcement is. That is a major step in the right direction. I hope this is the starting shot for a completely different safety thinking of the government and the Swedish Transport Administration, which also includes us motorcyclists.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-268	Madam President, I would like On the way here today I was met with an advertising message: Our vision is that no one will perish or be seriously injured in a new Volvo by 2020. It was the CEO of Volvo Cars, Håkan Samuelsson, who was the sender of the message. Madam President, I would like It must of course represent Volvo and other vehicle manufacturers what their visions are, but that very well illustrates what the debate is all about. If we are to achieve the higher level of road safety, on which I believe we all agree in essence, with fewer deaths and injuries in our country, we need vision and development power in those of us who represent the state and state authorities, those who train drivers of vehicles, those who manufacture vehicles and, above all, an increased awareness and a sense of the challenge of the people who are in the middle of traffic. In 2016, Sweden had an average of 2.6 road deaths per 100 000 inhabitants. This places Sweden as a country very well. It has, of the absolute lowest percentages of road traffic accidents, been killed in an international perspective. The corresponding average for Europe is almost twice as high. Sweden is therefore strongly in an international comparison. It may be worth having included in the continuing debate on road safety here today. The so-called zero vision is the basis for road safety work in Sweden. It states quite clearly that it is unacceptable that road traffic requires human life. It is society's vision for what legislators and their authorities, the Finnish Transport Administration and others, have to achieve. There were 263 people who put their lives on the road last year. One can note that the number of fatalities has remained in principle unchanged since 2013. There are not many in an international comparison. But could the trend of ever - falling deaths have been broken and flattened? In 2009, the Parliament set a milestone for road safety development, which means that the number of fatalities should be halved between 2007 and 2020. It set a sharper target for zero vision, and the number of seriously injured would be reduced by 25 percent. In the Committee on Transport and Tourism, we note that further efforts are needed in addition to those made if we are to meet the interim targets by 2020. Of course, the safety of pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists, who are relatively unprotected, is a prerequisite. If we are to achieve the vision that we all agree on – that no one should perish in road traffic in our country – road safety issues must remain a priority. Among other things, the state authorities that have this as their field of work must be given very clear mandates on how to carry out the work in practice strategically and in particular for the unprotected road users. The chairman of the committee, Karin Svensson Smith, slid into freight transport during her speech. Karin Svensson Smith represents in the cooperation government a party that wants shorter and lighter freight trucks. That means we get more trucks on the road. The difference seen from an accident perspective between meeting a truck that v owns 60, 74 or 40 tons is closest academic. Politics must be connected, Madam President. It does not even do so for the chairman of the committee when it comes to road safety. Madam President, I would like There's a lot of people who want to get along on the road. These are cars, trucks, public transport, bicycles, pedestrians and motorcyclists. It is important that road safety work takes account of all these modes of travel. If it is right now that road safety work is generally moving in the right direction, the level of ambition must not be reduced, as there is still a great deal to be done in terms of safety. 263 deaths in 2016 are still far too many. It is therefore very good that a clear majority in the Parliamentary Transport Committee against the cooperation government with its support party The Left Party lands in highlighting the need for a national strategy to make roads safer for all road users, in order to have a continued focus on road safety. There are several issues worth highlighting in such a strategy. By way of example, the majority in the committee would like to mention that, among other things, the Finnish Transport Agency has pointed to a major challenge that they themselves highlight. It is to reach the road safety target linked to the motorcyclists. There is clearly a need for measures to further increase the safety of motorcycle traffic by preventing accidents and, above all, to mitigate the consequences if an accident occurs after all. Among other things, it is noted that there is a need to review the construction of our railway lines. In this report, therefore, the Centre Party and a majority in the Committee on Transport have chosen to highlight the need for increased safety for motorcyclists and the need to address the issue of the construction of road rails in the national road safety strategy, because the railings, as they are designed today, present a clear risk to road users who choose to travel on motorcycles. It is therefore a good thing, Madam President, that the Transport Committee is pushing this announcement to the government, which is to instruct the Finnish Transport Agency to develop a strategy with a particular focus on motorcyclists. Madam President, I would like Another theme related to road safety is how we use our senses – vision, hearing and others. The functioning of our minds is, of course, a prerequisite for us to be safe fellow road users. I would therefore like to point out that there are many who see well, but who still have shortcomings in the field of vision, deficiencies that may have arisen because of illness or something else. Those who have these deficiencies and who are reported by a doctor because of this need to undergo very extensive tests. The concern, Madam President, is how we carry out these tests in our country. We rely on a machine. The results of the machine will determine whether you can keep your driving licence. Each of us may realize that for a person who depends on his driving licence for his livelihood, companionship, and life, such a test becomes extremely stressful. If you don't pass the test, you lose your driver's license. As I see it, Sweden has been one of the countries that is the most stringent in the world when it comes to applying rules for synthesis. Other countries have a more pragmatic and possibly more reality-related approach that balances the results of a machine test with practical driving tests in simulators or for real. In our country, as far as I understand it, we base the decision on a machine test. It would therefore be very reasonable to investigate and analyse the regulations we apply in Sweden from an international perspective and from this can land in a more reasonable practice so that people who see well but who have limited field of vision problems to a much greater extent than today can keep their driving licence. This is a line that the Center Party and my colleague Staffan Danielsson are pursuing and will continue to pursue until we get a majority of the parliamentary parties behind us. Madam President, I would like Finally, and for time to come, I call for the approval of reservations 7 and 11.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-284	Madam President, I would like I do not know if I can contribute much to a debate that I have not been so involved in, but at least you will hear my tornado dialect for a few minutes. In the report on road safety, TU11, there is a reservation 18 that my colleague has raised in committee. I would like to endorse that. The reservation is about competence requirements for emergency vehicle drivers. I cannot go into it very much because I have little time, but I am convinced of one thing: that the national requirements for emergency vehicle drivers will not be accepted today, I understand, but I am convinced that we will have common requirements in the country in future. I have respect for the fact that this is not happening today, but the fact that it is not perplexing me. Professional drivers in this country are doing great. There are good requirements for education, and this is shown in the statistics when our Swedish drivers drive professional vehicles here in the country. This can, of course, be attributed to the fact that they have a solid education behind them, and it is clear that the demands on those who drive emergency vehicles would actually be the same across the country. The government says in its reply that each employer has responsibility and obligation to ascertain the driver's competence. It is certainly good, but I still argue that it would be even better to have general demands over the kingdom that look the same and that there would be demands to perform and pass any test. It would have been very interesting to participate more in the debate, but I have other things to do. It has been interesting to hear how different people can look at the road safety issues that arise. I believe that we all have the same ambition for a zero vision on the roads, as it should be a zero vision in the workplace. I hope that you will convey to your parties that the Swedish Work Environment Authority would also have the resources to ensure that we achieve a zero vision in the workplace. It's just as important as on the road. Madam President, I would like As I have said, I am in favour of reservation 18.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-291	Madam President, I would like For time to come, I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 3 and 7, although I naturally support all our proposals. Madam President, I would like People's freedom and prosperity benefit from good communications. The ability to travel between different locations, regions and countries creates both business opportunities and knowledge that contribute to growth. It is therefore important that mobility exists and is made possible. There is also a need for a well-functioning infrastructure for jobs, growth and welfare. The infrastructure can be seen as one of society's bloodstreams that creates the conditions for further expansion of communities and also increased housing construction. In 1997, Parliament decided on a zero vision of road safety. In committee, we are very much in agreement that it is important to work on road safety issues, but there is little difference in how we want to bring about changes. The zero vision means that no one should be killed or seriously injured as a result of road traffic accidents within the road transport system. We in the Liberals believe that there are simple measures that can be taken to reduce the number of accidents. Karin Svensson Smith, chairman of the committee, wondered why a road strategy was needed. We can see that more needs to be done. Today, many road users are unprotected, including cyclists and pedestrians. Accident statistics show that Sweden will not reach the EU target of halving the number of deaths from 2010 to 2020. I note that in 2016, 263 people died, including 19 cyclists and 39 pedestrians. Half of those seriously injured with permanent but are cyclists. So we must do more. We in the Liberals believe that the rules of the Traffic Regulations on air travel obligations can be reviewed. We also believe that it is important to prevent the so-called blind spots. We believe that there is a need for a review of the regulations and the design of road markings, and we also think that greater clarity in the rules is important, which would make it easier for all road users, not least the vulnerable road users, who would then be better protected. This would hopefully lead to fewer accidents and increased road safety. A number of roads are mentioned here, and I would also like to mention a place where 400 children live along the school road. There has also been a discussion about why fewer children bike or go to school, and if you have a narrow road with an almost non-existent road and the children are going to school they are driven. There's no alternative. We can note that the number of children on bicycles has fallen dramatically. It has decreased by 40% from 1995 to 2014. The fact that so many schoolchildren are being driven has an impact on public health, among other things. More measures are needed. The fact that we could not agree in committee to focus on the roads is what I find a little strange in dealing with. I take note of the reservation made by the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party. Madam President, I would like I also call for the bicycle strategy. It has been a long time since the Riksdag decided on an announcement. The cycling issues and the cycling strategy are also related to road safety, as they are vulnerable road users. When's the cycle strategy coming up? I will hear the word soon, but a clarification would be very grateful. Madam President, I would like Another issue that has also been involved in the debate is driving, i.e. mobile phones in cars. We have all seen road users in traffic sitting on the phone to the ear, but I also think that many of us have seen something else. What is the mobile phone of the future – when the mobile phone is integrated into a touchscreen with GPS and much more? That is what makes legislative changes very difficult. What is the mobile phone of the future? The countries that have introduced legislation banning handheld mobile phones have also seen that the behaviour of road users is changing. Legislation works at the beginning, and then behavior changes. There is a country that has a total mobile phone ban. In other countries, consideration is given to fines and other measures. One way could be to equip the smart cars of the future with road safety systems that make it possible to communicate. Anyone who sits out on the road in rural and rural areas and will drive many miles may need to be able to communicate. The question then is what technological developments are like that can make it possible to communicate. There are many examples of disturbing features for the driver. It has been mentioned sad children in the car, touch screens, mobile phones and much more. But something makes us people need and want to communicate when we're in the car. I hope, of course, that the future will show that smart solutions can be found. The problem is to make legislation technology neutral. Madam President, I would like The Alliance government began an important effort to increase security linked to technology use. In 2013, the Traffic Regulation was strengthened by allowing the driver to engage in activities such as the use of mobile phones and other communication equipment when travelling on the road with an engine-driven vehicle only if it does not adversely affect driving. It's important. We're not gonna sit around texting, talking on the phone and losing our attention. The difficulty is technology neutrality. We look forward to the investigation to be presented in April and what further action may need to be taken. But I say once again that all kinds of communication equipment must be dialled in. Of course, this is a road safety issue. It is important to make it possible to have more secure communication in relation to the driver's need to communicate with the outside world. We look forward to the forthcoming proposal by the Swedish Transport Agency. But let us also look to the future and consider what the so-called self-driving cars can mean. The legislation that we are to decide on should also be up to date for the future. We have already seen in other legislative matters that technological developments sometimes run away from the opportunities that exist. Madam President, I would like Road safety is an important issue. Of course, our thoughts today are with those who have recently suffered the serious accident. Clearly, we all feel the need to follow developments and see what else needs to be done. The thoughts go to the victims and their relatives. Madam President, I would like Increased road safety in all respects, including cyclists and pedestrians, also has a number of positive consequences, including fewer interventions in health care and rehabilitation, fewer sick leave and increased public health. We in the Liberals believe that more needs to be done to increase road safety, not least for our children, young people, pedestrians and cyclists.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-309	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Nina Lundström, for your questions! I thought I'd start with the bike strategy. I hope I was clear when Boriana Åberg raised the issue. As Nina Lundström says, legislation is being prepared. We work with it, and of course we want it to be as good and complete as possible. That's why it'll take time, but it'll be here soon. I can't say a date at this stage, but we're fully working. I am in favour of what Mrs Nina mentioned about communication equipment. We are both waiting for the study to be carried out on 24 April on proposals and measures. Clearly, something needs to be done. That's how I interpret your speech. Of course, this should be done with respect for the technological changes that exist. In our traffic environment there are motorists with new vehicles and motorists with old vehicles. There are now a lot of changes in communication equipment technology. Several Swedish companies are at the forefront of development. The question is how to handle the old vehicles. Nina is happy to develop how the Liberals view the issue of communication equipment.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-314	Madam President, I would like I also noted when Johan Andersson made his speech that there were questions as to why there is a majority in favour of developing a strategy for roads. I noticed that Johan Andersson was a bit critical and felt that it was not necessary. The report makes it clear that much work has been promised but not delivered. The report also states that the need for road safety-enhancing measures for cyclists should be highlighted in a strategy to make roads safer. There are also a number of other road users. I know that the word patience is important in politics, but sometimes you lose patience. We need to go further on the issues. That is why there is a majority in committee. Nevertheless, I interpret the debate so that Johan Andersson also considers the issue to be extremely important. I hope we can do more. I believe that the cycling strategy should cover not least road safety issues. That is why we will eventually be debating a bicycle report. It is mainly about what is linked to public health. We must be observant of the environment that meets those who are climate-smart and walk or cycle to work or school. I went on route 225 myself this weekend, and I saw cyclists out on a road that is about six inches [20 cm] wide. With the high speeds on the road I understand that those who are out training on this road are in an incredibly dangerous environment. I don't think that's enough without us doing more. As far as mobile phones and communication equipment are concerned, I still have a reply, and I will come back to those questions. The dilemma is how to produce technology-neutral legislation that increases road safety.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-319	Madam President, I would like I believe that we have a common understanding of the safety of our cyclists in particular. Of course, it is part of the upcoming cycle strategy in one way or another. There those parts will be highlighted. Then there are some different ways to go in this. The two-plus-one routes are a concern. I know this not least because I am the chairman of Motala AIF, which is the main organisation of Vätternrundan. I know about the problem, especially during the training for the big races. We have a number of two-plus-one roads around our municipality, and there will be trouble with that. Fortunately, there are alternative routes that can be used, but that is another issue. I look forward to Nina's forthcoming response on communication equipment and driving. I think this is an issue that we need to take very seriously. When the investigation comes, we should have a thorough discussion in committee, where we will hopefully find a common understanding of some kind of model in order to overcome the concerns that exist.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-322	Madam President, I would like I may ask a so-called rhetorical question given that Johan Andersson has no reply left. I did not understand the answer to why the committee cannot be in complete agreement on the need for a road strategy. I didn't get the answer. As far as communication equipment is concerned, as I said in my speech, what is the mobile phone of the future? Today, when we are in traffic and we transport ourselves, we see how to use GPS. It has integrated touch screens and functions on the steering wheel. The phone connects to a touch screen; you sit and point to a touch screen. Obviously, drivers and passengers need to be able to communicate while in the car. I take Johan Andersson as saying that there may be a total ban on mobile phones in the future, that it can also be considered. I think that's a very difficult way to go. I also believe that there is poor acceptance, as the conditions in the country are completely different. You can drive 10 to 150 miles without meeting a single user and therefore need to communicate, while in dense urban traffic you have completely different needs to pay attention. I believe that legislation is tricky. I have noted the implementation of the Vienna Convention in a number of countries. I have followed Finland's example, which noted that the legislation worked at the beginning but did not work afterwards. Countries are looking at increasing fines because the legislation is not working. I think you have to find other ways forward. We agree that road safety is A and O. Anyone who is a driver should have full attention and take responsibility for the traffic situation. But the legislation is not easy. I believe that we can agree on the objective of increasing road safety, but be open to the need for people to communicate. I think you should keep it in the back of your head when you make laws. Progress is progressing very quickly now, and I hope that we will have legislation that works over time.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-328	Madam President, I would like When we are debating road safety here in Parliament today, it is difficult not to let our thoughts go to the terrible bus accident outside Sveg. Of course, as many of us have said, the thoughts go out to those affected in particular. For me it is especially because I grew up in Härjedalen and went to school in Sveg for seven years, so this came very close to me. Road safety is an important area for us Christian Democrats. We therefore want to be particularly clear in this area. Despite the Swedish zero vision of traffic, 263 people died in traffic last year. The stage target for the zero vision by 2020 is 220 people. Much work remains to be done to achieve that goal. That is why we are pushing for safer roads, tougher penalties for drunk driving and stronger control of driving schools to get to illegal operators. If you get into a car, you should be able to be sure that your fellow road users do not pose a danger to your own safety. In Swedish traffic cyclists and motorcyclists are particularly vulnerable. The reasons are obvious: they are not protected in the same way as the one sitting in a car, because in a car there are deformation zones, belts and not least airbags that protect the driver and passengers in a completely different way than the one riding a motorcycle is protected. Madam President, I would like In 2015, 22 per cent of all lost drivers had alcohol in their blood. It's more than one in five drivers. In addition, hundreds of injured. Drunk driving continues to be a problem. According to NTF, over 14,000 drivers drive drunk every day. There are about the same number of taxis in Sweden. Some believe that they have sobered up since the day before; others have given up that hope for a long time but still sit behind the wheel. These drivers put themselves and their fellow road users at great risk. That is totally unacceptable. There shall be zero tolerance to traffic alcohol. The police must have sufficient resources to prevent and also prosecute infringements. The Christian Democrats' commitment to 2 600 new police officers is part of this work. Whoever drives drunk should be punished. The current scale of penalties for this is too low. We believe that the penalty for drunk driving and heavy drink driving should be increased. We Christian Democrats have also been pushing for a long time the issue of a ban on so-called drinking. As in our neighbouring country, Norway, we believe that drinking alcohol should not be allowed in our country for the first six hours after a traffic accident. Today, it is possible for drunk drivers to walk free if they claim to drink after and not before the accident. This is not acceptable. We in Parliament have agreed on the issue of the introduction of a ban on post-suppression equivalent to that in Norway, but the government has chosen to go on the line that it is not a crime to hide one's crime. That is why this law has been delayed. But it's urgent. I am very critical of the government's conclusion. People who put their fellow road users at risk should be stopped and not escaped because of a loophole in the law, which it is actually about. I therefore believe that a ban on post-sacrifice should be introduced as soon as possible. I am also critical of the delay in alcoboms, which have been tried by the MHF with great success. Some people wonder if they have any effect – there are so few people who are taken for drunk driving when they come from foreign ports. Yes, they have. At first, many were taken. After a few weeks, the rumor spread so that you kind of knew. It had a preventive effect, and it's interesting. I am therefore critical of this delay. Alco-bommers should be in all major ports with international traffic. It has turned out that they do not delay traffic, as the technology available is very smooth. The Christian Democrats propose that alcohol locks or other technologies that prevent drunk driving should be mandatory in all new cars in our country. The Christian Democrats also want to introduce requirements for alcohol locks on all new cars used in driving licence training in order to ensure road soberness. A requirement for alcohol lock already exists today for those who want to become a member of the Swedish Trafikskolors Riksförbund. That's great. We think that all traffic schools should follow STR's good example. Madam President, I would like With regard to road safety, it is of the utmost importance that everyone who drives a vehicle is knowledgeable and aware of the rules. A chain is not stronger than its weakest link, and the road safety chain is no exception. Therefore, the cheating of driving licence training must be counteracted. Today there are a lot of illegal driving schools, which are of course less serious. Some seem completely hidden, while others may appear perfectly legitimate to those who want to start driving licence training. They often have both flattened cars and double-command but lack the required permits. They deceive students on thousands of crowns and do not guarantee them an adequate education. Some put in systems to have posted representatives take driver tests – theory tests – up to 60 times to memorize questions and answers and then pass the answers to their students. This is organised cheating and is not about giving knowledge. The Christian Democrats want to reduce the number of possible driver tests to ten per year and the number of supervisor permits one person can have to five. Madam President, I would like In this context, it is important to say a few words about driving licence training. Getting a driver's license has become increasingly difficult. An approved proficiency test or a driving test is only valid for two months. If you can't do the tricked part of this span, both tests must be repeated. This is not really good. Many people today take driving licences at an early age and may have planned to take a driving licence during, for example, their holidays or summer holidays during their studies. Add to this the waiting times of Trafikverket, and the time is running out. Driving licences are a basic requirement for many professions. Driving licence training therefore needs to be made more flexible. Against this background, the Christian Democrats believe that the validity of an approved driving and knowledge test should be extended to six months. Madam President, I would like Motorcyclists are in a particularly vulnerable situation. Last year 29 people died in motorcycle accidents. Of these, 7 died in accidents involving railings, i.e. more than 20% or more than one in five. In other European countries the figure is lower, down to 8%, and in the United States it is 5.5%. One of the reasons for this is our cable racks, which we still have as standard in Sweden, even though we know that cable racks are underrated when it comes to the safety of motorcycle drivers. If we are to achieve zero vision, we need to improve the safety of motorcyclists, and we need to replace cable racks with other solutions. Madam President, I would like With this, I call for the alliance joint reservation No 7 to be approved. Of course, I support all the reservations of the Christian Democrats, but for the winning time I only ask for the approval of reservation 5.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-348	Madam President, I would like The tragic accident that happened in Sveg is in everyone's thoughts. What caused the accident, no one knows yet, but it will be investigated. We will do everything we can to ensure that this does not happen again. This brings me unsearched into today's report, TU11, which deals precisely with road safety. First of all, I would just like to say that we are in favour of all our requests, but for time-winning, we are only in favour of reservations 6 and 19. However, we also support our specific opinion. This is a rather large report and a report that touches on it. I have been listening to the speakers of all the other parties, and I must highlight my own party colleague, Per Klarberg's previous speech. We have chosen to go up with two speakers, because Per was unable to hold his ten-minute speaking time and exceeded it. There has been a lot of talk about the zero vision. It's great, and we Swedish democrats are right behind it. Now there has also been talk of zero vision 2.0- sovereign, a fresh start. It sets new targets and makes it even more sharp: zero seriously injured and zero killed in traffic. How are you going to get there? Yeah, it's not really easy. We can look at the car; it is a wonderful creation. It gives freedom and joy, and it is a hobby. But in the wrong hands and in the wrong hands it becomes a killing machine – not for those who are in the car or truck but for walking, cycling, motorcyclists and mopedists around. We Swedish democrats have written motion for motion on the ban on mobile phones, especially the ban on hand-held mobile phones, precisely in order to increase safety. Sure, I've been listening to the debates. I have heard Boriana Åberg and Johan Andersson standing here and speaking, and it made me unsearchable to think of Kalle Anka, Musse Mouse and Janne Långben on Christmas Eve. When they plop in the bell, there'll be food. Long legs are hungry, so he jumps out of the car, which drives himself up through the mountains, and goes in and eats. They'll all be fine, but in Sweden we're not allowed to sit in a caravan while travelling. It could be an autonomous car driving, and it's great that you can do other things with self-driving cars. But if you're a driver, your concentration should be on the driving of the car. It's not okay to lose concentration because of hand-held devices. We know that when you drive in the big city it is enough to lose the concentration in one second to get you 8 meters at as low as 30 kilometers per hour. If you drive on a road for 90 kilometres per hour, one second's absence is enough for you to come 25 meters. If you happen to look at your mobile phone or something else in 4 seconds, you will be over 100 meters. It doesn't matter if the road is empty. There's a ditch, there's animals, there's everything you can drive on. Single accidents are not uncommon. We all know that steering wheel surfing is increasing all the time. I'm not saying we should ban communication. There are opportunities to communicate without losing focus on driving. There are, as Nina Lundström said, things in the steering wheel today. On the phone we have Siri, who you can talk to just like you talk to your neighbor or the children in the back seat. Should it happen that you are forced to let go of the concentration, you are right to stop your vehicle and do what you are supposed to do. Only 13 men or women have been charged with driving for a year. I don't know how many people I've looked at when I was walking around in traffic in Gothenburg, where I live. I've been a little hurt because this is a core issue that I'm passionate about. People look into the phones where they sit, some open and clear, which I don't think is good. Worst are those who hold it down to the street– then it becomes clear, and they have no control over their vehicle at all. What do they do? Do they text you? Are they checking Facebook? Do they play Wordfeud, which requires even more concentration? I have no idea, but I think this is a damn mess. I heard Johan Andersson's previous own that the proposal comes on 24 April this year, which I think is great. We Swedish democrats have been exercising a ban for three years but unfortunately have not received support on this issue before. This year we presented a motion that we wanted to speed up the law. Now the investigation comes, but when will the law come? There's no one who can answer that, because we don't know what the investigation is. However, we want this to be introduced as soon as possible so that we can at least get a bit on the road when it comes to hand-held mobile phones. Then technology will always develop. In a number of years, no one will have to worry about this, for then the vehicles will drive themselves. As I said, road safety is of particular importance. I thought I'd talk to you about vision issues, too. When you need to take a driving licence today, you have to do a visual examination before you get your licence. It's the only study you have to do in your lifetime if you have a B driver's license. I've come up at the respectable age of 42 years and notice that things are starting to happen with my eyesight. Since I am on the Committee on Transport and Tourism, I am used to dealing with these issues. But I have colleagues and friends who refuse to realize that the sight is getting much worse. Often you don't notice it yourself, but it only happens when someone else helps you to notice, because the brain changes itself so that you think you see well. I think that when you need to renew your driving licence, at least when you are over 40 - 45 years old, you should also do a visual examination to find out if you need help with glasses or lenses to drive your vehicle safely. There is so much information on the roads today, with signs and so on, and we notice that more and more vulnerable road users are coming out into the streets too. We must protect these. I must also say a few words about a motion which Staffan Danielsson has written and which we Swedish democrats think is great. Anders Åkesson was previously in the speaker's chair and talked about the same thing. There are some people who for one reason or another have flaws in their field of view. They've been reported by doctors. Many times, however, you can manage safe driving even though you have flaws in the field of vision. As an experienced driver, you can learn to look in a different way if you know that you have shortcomings. Unfortunately, too many people lose their driving licences because the tests are not as good as they should be. There are driving simulators and more on VTI, but it is expensive. We want the government to continue to pump in funds to the VTI to make these tests more efficient and better. I am not going to go further on this, because I see that Staffan Danielsson has asked to speak after me. I am absolutely sure that he will take this up. Per Klarberg mentioned speed cameras in his speech earlier. Speed cameras are a safety-enhancing measure. It is not about getting as much fine as possible. As Per Klarberg said, it is signposted where the speed cameras are, so that you can reduce speed. They're great. I've made it through with the signs, I can say. I try to drive after the speed limits, but it is sometimes difficult to know what speed is on the roads. They change signs and lower speed limits. There are 60 and 80 signs and 70 and 90 signs. It's not really easy to see what's the speed of the day. In the past, you could see it on the road markings. Today, the police must be able to identify who is driving in order to issue speeding fines. We Swedish democrats believe that it would have been better if the owner of the vehicle had had the remedy if the driver could not be identified. Now it is not about cases where you have driven so fast that you get rid of the driving licence, because then the police should of course get the driver. But speeding fines, just like parking tickets, can be the responsibility of the car's owner. Congestion tax is also paid by the owner of the vehicle. In my case, I'd like to call the congestion tax a fine-- I think it's a fine you have to pay when you pay congestion tax. Of course, it is also necessary to investigate how to avoid car keepers taking on the costs while drivers go free. Let me take an example. Let's assume that Sara-Lena-Lena, who sits here in the hall, buys a car and registers it on herself and I buy a car and register it on myself. Then we trade cars with each other. Then we can drive past the speed cameras so it whistles – the police can never give us a ticket. In the pictures they can see that there was a man in Sara-Lena-Lena's car, and she has no obligation to state that it was me. It's not a good system. We also know that people are masking themselves to escape. That's not good. We need to review that legislation. Madam President, I would like I see time is passing, and I have more things to talk about. I was just going to get into this quickly with driving schools – black car schools. We share the view of previous speakers that we must do something about this with black driving schools. Today you can have up to 15 wrists. I can't believe anyone needs to have so many wrists. Five wrists could well have been enough over a five-year period. Later, this can be expanded. By having 15 supervisors, you can actually carry out driving school activities. It competes out ordinary choir schools, which have this as their livelihood and teach according to all the rules of art. I think this is very important to press.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-375	Madam President, I would like Members of Parliament in the Transport Committee, audiences and viewers, and the chairman of the Transport Committee, who is unfortunately no longer here! I agree with this debate and will speak for four or six minutes on behalf of a small part of the committee's large area of responsibility – one that is extremely important for those who see well but who are deprived of their driving licences because of minor shortcomings in their lateral vision. I had an interpellation debate with the Minister for Transport yesterday. My arguments for it to be obvious that the government lets an independent investigator review Sweden's regulations in an international perspective can be found in a number of posts on my blog. Googla. Staffan Members of the committee, like me, have sometimes received e-mails, telephone calls or letters from people who see well but who have been deprived of their driving licences. Their existence is sometimes destroyed, and their freedom is pruned. The Swedish Transport Agency has always argued that their rules are similar to those applied throughout the EU. Those with minor deficiencies in their side vision and field of view are dangerous and can drive on cyclists and pedestrians at crossing points, usually chief physician Lars Englund says. I show in my 15 posts on the blog that this is wrong. That information was not known to the members of the committee when you discussed my motion, but it is known next year when the issue is re-examined. That is why I would like to highlight this to you today. Sweden has uniquely strict rules for those who look good but who have some flaw in their side vision. The Swedish Transport Agency's experts always argue as if half the field of vision is always gone. Then you should not have a driving licence, and we agree on that. What I am discussing are minor shortcomings in people's side vision, which in the other EU countries, in the US and in all the countries of the world do not cause the driving licence to be withdrawn. Only in Sweden does this happen. It's been thousands of people in the last few years. In many countries and in many states of the United States, shortcomings in the field of vision are not taken into account at all. In all countries except Sweden you are allowed to show your driving ability in practical driving tests. Sweden has prohibited this. Instead, you let extremely stressful tests in a synthesized machine, Humphrey – where you have your head fixed and your eyes must be straight ahead – determine whether you can keep your driving licence. In reality, the eye moves 60 times a second in different directions, turning the head. Therefore Norway has practical driving tests and no driving simulator. But Sweden and the Minister for Transport say: It is an arbitrary system. It's scientifically more accurate with synthesizers. Then the Swedish Transport Agency has set extremely strict requirements. If you can't do this, you can't get your driver's license back, which has been taken right away. The tests are carried out under tremendous stress. Those who can judge how people drive a car, driving testers and ophthalmologists should not have to do so," says the Swedish Transport Agency: It will be more fair if we just go on the synthesized machine and the extremely strict rules that the Swedish Transport Agency has established. That is the rule of law today. Anders Åkesson developed it well. I also acknowledge Jimmy Ståhl for this. A driving simulator is now being developed in VTI in Linköping. That's good. But the Swedish Transport Agency has made sure that the rules are very strict. You're only allowed to do the test once. You can't prepare. It's 20 grand. There's a class question coming up. Now my speaking time is up. However, I intend to ask for a reply to myself or to make another two minutes' speech, which I understand you can do.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-385	Mr President, I would like to Norway has no driving simulator. There people with visual deficiencies can prove their driving ability in practical driving tests. Norway has lower road deaths than Sweden. The Minister for Transport said yesterday that this small piece is very important to reduce the mortality in traffic. That is not the case. It's just sad that those who see well aren't allowed to drive. I was very pleased that, two years ago, the S- and the MP-group in the Committee on Transport and Tourism voted in favour of this motion. There is a need for an independent investigator. The Swedish Transport Agency is very strict and very locked in this. I am pleased that the Center Party and the Swedish Democrats are doing this now. I hope that a broad majority in the committee will be able to do so next spring, and I hope that the Minister for Transport will take on board the reality. She's only been working for two years. She hasn't been in the long story, when we've discussed it all. We know how it works. A government trusts its authority. You trust your administrator, who works with the questions and who thinks as his authority. That's what you're supposed to do. We'll have respect for the authorities. But we Members of Parliament must also listen to individual citizens when they say in desperation: Why is my driver's license taken? I had been allowed to keep it in all the other countries of the world. Can't you investigate this? I really do think there needs to be an independent investigation – be it a special investigation or an independent power within the authority that the government appoints. But it is not possible to put the goat as a gardener and to allow those who are totally stuck to synthesizers and square rules to evaluate themselves.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-389	Mr President, I would like to We are now dealing with the Government's proposal on fixed-term building permits for dwellings. In everyday terms, we call it temporary building permits. It is a good and necessary proposal. The new provision is proposed to enter into force on 1 May. The housing shortage is great. We know that most municipalities have a housing shortage. In addition, many municipalities – or all municipalities – will place new arrivals, and we know that in many municipalities there have been major problems. I have even been informed that once again people live in gymnasiums. It feels quite unworthy in Sweden. The bill is the result of the migration settlement. Based on the fact that we changed the rules on migration, we said that we also need to look at some other legislation. As I said, I think it is a very good proposal that we have today to take a position on. What I can possibly be critical of is that it has taken so long for the government to produce this bill. It is a pity that we have not got the regulations in place much earlier. I have been in contact with a great many municipal politicians who have been rejected in terms of building temporary housing in order to resolve an emergency situation, precisely on the grounds that it is not a temporary need. That is why the change that is now coming is extremely important. The big change is now about being able to restore the place. I believe that this will increase the conditions for very many municipalities to actually be able to build housing for people. What distinguishes this legislation from previous temporary building permits is that it is actually possible to maintain all the requirements that exist for ordinary building permits and yet obtain it as a temporary building permit. So we do not have to build anything of inferior quality in terms of all the regulations we have, but we can do something of adequate quality. But you put it up on a temporary basis. In the meantime, you can then work with detailed plans forward to solve the situation. We know that in Sweden, on average, it takes a very long time from idea to handing over a key. During that time, people must actually have a place to live. That is why, as I said, this is much awaited by the municipalities. Let us hope that the application of the law is in line with what we as legislators think. Of course, we still have questions about appeals and so on. That is why it is not certain that this will go all the way. I think you'd have to look at that part too. In committee there are parties that are very worried: now we will get ghettos. Many areas of temporary housing will be built. And it will be a very boring growing up environment for children, because 15 years – which is the maximum time – is of course a very long time, especially if you are a child. I must state that I have great confidence in my local politicians. They are not interested in getting large residential areas of very poor quality, where people will live for a very long time, but of course they are very interested in having good living environments for their residents. But we need to resolve this emergency situation. As I said, since the application of the law has been such that you have not received fixed-term building permits, this feels very good. I even think that these new rules on fixed-term building permits for housing are so good that we should change the legislation so that it looks like this forever. Now we didn't get that far, but I think we'll end up there eventually. With this, Mr President, I support the proposal in the report.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-398	Mr President, I would like to Today we are faced with a proposal from the government. It is supported by the Alliance, as this is part of the government's and the Alliance's agreement on migration policy. The proposal concerns fixed-term building permits. This proposal will allow the need to listen to public interests to be circumvented. It can also create many new exclusion areas. The fixed-term building permits covered by this proposal mean that you can have a building set up for 15 years. The law is to be applied for a period of six years, which means that these temporary buildings can remain until 2038. Words are used as fixed-term building permits, but here we are talking about a very long time to come. The fixed-term building permits proposed in the bill also mean that a variety of requirements currently imposed on permanent housing, such as quality, public interest in new construction and the integration of these homes into the environment, can be waived. These demands can be completely waived if this proposal becomes a reality. The consequences of the proposal would be substantial, and the proposal is very far-reaching for society in the future. Among other things, long-term housing and community planning would be destroyed – in future construction, dwellings built with fixed-term building permits could stand in the way of long-term housing planning, as they can last for up to 15 years. We are talking about a very long period of time. It is believed that this should be one of the urgent measures to solve the housing shortage. However, this may mean that we are reducing the long-term possibility of building more homes, as these temporary dwellings will end up as a brake block for future construction. What the government and the Alliance think should be a solution to obtaining housing may be an improvement over a very short period of time, but in the long term this can put obstacles in the way of increased housing construction. In 2016, the Riksdag decided that municipalities must accept a number of refugees – a kind of distribution ratio across the country. This so-called instruction law, combined with the fixed-term building permits, may oblige municipalities to build – or set up – a variety of temporary dwellings. In the long run, there is a risk that this will create more exclusion areas – more vulnerable areas. I wonder what response we had received from the police if this proposal had gone there for a referral. Temporary housing poses a great risk. In the long run, these could be very large areas that could become socially vulnerable. Those who own these homes will have little interest in managing either them or the environment to any great extent, as it is temporary housing. What is meant to create better conditions for obtaining more housing will thus perhaps, in the long run, create huge problems with new alienation areas. Furthermore, this means disregarding the public interest. This way a building can be built near your own residential area or near your own house without being able to influence it. The government creates such an opening through this proposal, which is therefore very far-reaching in many ways. We know that many other laws that have been considered temporary have turned into permanent ones. When the housing that can be set up over a 15-year period is then to be moved or removed from the place where it stood, we may end up in a situation where a new proposal is put forward to allow these homes to remain. This would mean that the interest of neighbours in influencing their environment would be completely eliminated, since 15 years ago it was possible to build housing in connection with other homes, without the neighbours being able to participate, and that these dwellings would be permanent after 15 years. This also makes it possible to build business-related housing. We know that a great deal can happen over a 15-year period – companies are expanding and new companies want access to industrial land, but housing has been built there. This also makes it difficult for the business community to build on its activities or to establish new activities in connection with industries. It is made more difficult by the fact that homes have been built there. It's hard to know exactly what's going on for 15 years to come. After all, what is described as a temporary building permit is a very long period of time. Mr President, I would like to The risk is that construction companies and developers will focus on temporary housing instead of building permanent housing for a long time to come. The whole of this proposal means that long-term planning is excluded. When building homes, you need to think about adapting everything around you – public transport, preschools and schools, health care and the like. This requires long-term planning, and for this very reason – in order to plan society for such a long time – it takes a long time to build housing today. This would be broken with the proposal on the table of Parliament today. Mr President, I would like to With these words, I would like to call for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation 1, which means that we are calling for rejection of the proposal in the bill.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-415	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party often welcomes the simplification of the rules and, of course, this, too, which is the result of the migration agreement. At the same time, as I stand here today, I would like to take a position also on the other exceptions which have been prepared by the government and which could make a difference to the possibility of finding other temporary solutions too when the urgent needs are as great as they were when a number of asylum seekers came to our country and just as they were when the agreement was made. This would have meant that we would not have housed people in sports halls and other things, but we would have been able to find some kind of simpler housing so that people could have a roof over their heads. I and the Center Party note that here we have to decide on a new law whose validity is to be limited in time. That is to say, this law, which aims to simplify the rules for fixed-term building permits, will expire after six years, on 1 May 2023, and then we will return to what is now in force, as far as I understand it. The change means that the requirement for a fixed-term building permit of a maximum of 15 years should no longer be that the need for the measure itself, i.e. the dwelling, should be of a temporary nature, without the measure before the building permit has expired being able to be removed and the land restored. We think that is a good change, and I note that the Center Party is not alone in thinking so. Only the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party are opposed. That is why, Mr President, I support the proposal in the report. In my own municipality of residence, Kungsbacka, the County Administrative Board recently annulled a building permit granted by the municipality for temporary housing in Kläppa, near the new train station in connection with the community Åsa. The modules, which the municipal housing company had already ordered after receiving the building permit, were delivered only a few days after the municipality had granted building permits, as it was urgent to get the dwellings in place. The County Administrative Board suspended the building permit. But I can tell you that the houses were placed on their plinth when they were delivered. The housing company paid its fine, and the county administrative board finally changed its decision. With this kind of legislation in place then, this would not have had to happen. We believe, Mr President, that the proposal for the restoration of land is so good that we in the Center Party see no reason to return to the previous legislation already on 1 May 2023, but that the requirement for a fixed-term building permit of a maximum of 15 years after that date should also be for the land to be restored. I hope that the government that is then responsible will see to it that this is the case. I see no indication that the availability of housing will be limited for as short a time as is claimed. The Boverket estimates that by 2025 the need will be 710,000 homes. That is to say, Boverket estimates that we will have a shortage of housing two years after we have returned to the current legislation on fixed-term building permits. In the future, the need for housing will vary over time and in different places. Of course, I do not see fixed-term building permits as the solution to the housing crisis permanently, but I see it as part of a housing policy that needs to be implemented, especially in municipalities that are growing rapidly through business start-ups, the need for student housing, migration and more. I will not be in favour of our reservation, although I would have liked to have done so. There is much wisdom in our exercise, and I hope that not only the Moderates have taken this on board.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-423	Mr President, I would like to Today we are discussing fixed-term building permits or temporary building permits. The Left Party has a number of reservations in this report, but for time to come, I only call for reservation 4. Most of us in here and out there live in a town with a housing shortage. This means that many can not move closer to the re job. As a result, many 25 - year - olds still live at home. This means that several girls and boys have to be squeezed into one in order to afford a very high second-hand rent. The reason for this is that Sweden has for a very long time lacked a social housing policy. I believe that it is therefore fundamentally unfortunate that this issue is linked to refugee policy. There are many more than refugees who today lack housing, because for a long time we have invested far too little political time and resources in building housing that people can actually afford. Politics has for far too long been governed by a few large companies that have only worked for their own interests. It has been built too expensive and too little, and that is something that needs to be changed in the long term. Housing should be something that we all have easy access to. It should be a matter of course that you should be able to leave home when you become an adult, much like being treated when you fall ill or go to school when you are at the age of seven. It should not only be hugely expensive residential apartments in extravagant bragging or social housing for the very poorest, but we must all jointly ensure that safe and warm homes are built for everyone, even for the generation that is moving away from home today. The most important thing, in my opinion, is to get rentals with reasonable rents. The Left Party, together with the Government, has therefore carried out major investments in the construction of rental apartments with affordable rents. The starting point for the Left Party is that housing construction in Sweden should usually be planned long-term and be for permanent use. It's a big investment. And we in Sweden are going to make high demands, perhaps even higher demands than we are now, that it is built with high quality based on an urban environment, design and coordination perspective and for homes to be sustainable and of good standard. The houses are supposed to be 50 or maybe 100 years old. It is simply stupid to build bad from the beginning and build in social problems for a long time to come. But in some cases, there needs to be the possibility of building dwellings with temporary building permits for a limited period– that is the case. In addition, many of the dwellings currently built with temporary building permits are of fairly good quality. The rules on temporary building permits therefore need to be appropriate. In the current situation, there is a need to remedy the most acute situation in the housing market in a reasonable manner. Setting up temporary construction on land pending permanent construction is an example of smart use of land. It may even be reasonable that the financial sustainability of housing itself is determined by the individual operator and that the legislation, as it is now proposed, focuses instead on the restoration of the place in accordance with the plan. Since the temporary building permit will still be in place for 15 years, the changes to the legislation will affect urban environments up to the years around 2040. 15 years is a fairly long time, perhaps not from an urban perspective but in an individual's life. We therefore believe that there are a number of good arguments in favour of limiting the period of validity of the legislation to three years. It is important that the planning of permanent construction is not squeezed out by worse temporary construction. There is already a strained staff situation at the planning offices in the municipalities. We believe that we must not end up in the situation where scarce human resources mean that the planning of permanent construction is halted. Of course, the amendment of the law must not lead to a deterioration in the quality and standard routine for an increasing number of people in our country. We're not going to suddenly get a lot of half-assed short-term housing everywhere. That is not the aim, but the idea must be to use land cleverly, even temporarily, to remedy the acute housing shortage. We therefore want to limit legislation to three years instead of the government's six-year proposal. We also want to evaluate the law to ensure that the negative effects that this can have do not occur.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-435	Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, in its report, deals with fixed-term building permits for housing. So far it's sounded like it's sprawling in a lot of different directions, but it doesn't. The Alliance, together with the government, has concluded that, as things stand, these limited building permits are needed. We have developed a system of rules that is manageable. Of course, it is a compromise between different interests, but in its entirety it is wise. As we have heard, there is a great need for housing. More than 700 000 homes are needed in a relatively limited time. The number of newly added new Swedes is large. There's not enough housing, and those that exist are too expensive. That is the reality in which we live. That is why the government and the alliance parties have made an agreement on migration, in which together we have tried to develop a regulatory framework and measures with various concrete proposals to improve this situation. It has already meant and will mean a difference for people who would otherwise have been referred to significantly worse solutions. What we are talking about is alternatives to tents. In my neighborhood, tent camps would be set up in a training field for military activities. We all wondered what would happen. Was it supposed to discourage people from coming, or would they actually live in tents? But we couldn't accommodate them in hotels. There's got to be a middle ground. When former Yugoslavia collapsed and we got a lot of refugees to Sweden, simple barracks were set up in an industrial area in my municipality of Simrishamn. I visited there several times because we had friends among the refugees. We tried to help them, we had dinner together and we did activities together. I noticed it was responsive. As soon as one child cried at one end of the house, the others were awakened. It wasn't a permanent living; you couldn't live like that for many years. But it was a better place to live than a tent. The barracks were good enough, for they sheltered people who had fled for their lives. Simrishamn's municipality fixed it up in a flash. Today it is industrial land again, and the barracks are gone. I would not have liked to see them standing, but they were needed there and then for a limited time. What we are debating now is the same idea. The law shall be valid for six years, and the houses shall be allowed to stand for a maximum of 15 years. Hopefully no one will live there for all 15 years, but there may be new people as others are flown out. It is true that these houses may not be as durable, keep the heat as good, are fixed against responsiveness and so on, but it is an option for a while for people to have a roof over their heads and a tolerable living. The hope and ambition, of course, is that we should have real housing that lasts over time. It is therefore a good thing that these houses should be compared with all other buildings after 15 years, and they should not remain if these temporary building permits are involved. It's not just about quality, it's about where they're placed. For example, it may be on industrial land. In addition to long-term measures to solve the housing shortage through permanent building, we also need short-term solutions. This is one of those. There is a need for a specific regulation on fixed-term building permits for dwellings and for measures required in connection with residential buildings that make it possible to build buildings for residential purposes to a greater extent than the rules we have now allowed. Improved housing conditions in society contribute to less segregation. The proposal is expected to result in more housing being built on the basis of fixed-term building permits. This is particularly true in areas with a large housing shortage. After all, the positive consequences of faster access to housing outweigh the negative consequences that could result from the construction of new residential buildings for a limited period of time. We believe that municipalities can best decide where temporary buildings are located and how they should be designed. We also believe that, in the long term, the housing shortage will be addressed with permanent measures. The supervision of municipalities also ensures that the land use granted on the basis of the fixed-term building permit ceases and that the site is restored after the agreed period has expired. A fixed-term building permit under the proposal is only granted after an aptitude test and a balancing of interests. In view of this and of the fact that municipalities are still able to impose requirements on location, location and environmental impact, it is less likely that other individuals will be affected in an unacceptable way. I am thinking here of the objection of the Swedish Democrats, and that should not have to happen. The amendment allows for more housing to be built on the basis of fixed-term building permits during a time when the need is very high. However, the starting point remains that planning should take place and that the housing shortage should eventually be solved through permanent construction in accordance with the usual rules. That is why I and the Christian Democrats believe that the validity of the regulation should be limited in time. It is difficult today to assess how long the need for the provision will last. If the need changes in the future, then we will have to try it. However, the need for housing suggests that it should apply until the housing market situation has improved. We will fight hard for this, because good housing is needed, both for those with good finances who are prepared to slip up and for those who are going into good housing and good life and are struggling to get there.
i-Y5a6zyrouQJ6612LezqiBX	Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Civil Liberties is now debating report 2016/ 17:CU21 on time-limiting building permits for housing. At the outset, I would like to say that I am pleased that the alliance parties are in favour of this report. It is through cooperation and long-term solutions that we can overcome the housing policy challenges, build Sweden strong and make life better for the people. I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject any motion for a resolution. Mr President, I would like to The Government's proposal is part of the cross-block migration agreement. It is an agreement that we intend to follow. We take the same view as the government that the housing shortage today is so serious that new housing needs to be built to an extent that Sweden has not been close to for many years. Housing is crucial and necessary for the health of the individual and for the possibility of taking a job or starting an education in a place of study. In particular, the dwelling is central to the establishment in Swedish society. The lack of housing means that one in five households in the million - programme areas is crowded, and this affects health and, not least, school results. Many children do not have room at home to sit in peace and quiet and do their homework, which also results in anxiety and anxiety. This makes it difficult to integrate into Swedish society. We share the government's view that a new section of the Planning and Construction Act is needed, which is introduced into a special regulation on fixed-term building permits for buildings for residential purposes in order to quickly obtain more housing as a result of the large reception. We have the same view as the government of the time, of the limitation of the building permit and that it may be granted for a total of up to 15 years. The new provision is proposed to enter into force on 1 May 2017 and to expire on 1 May 2023. Mr President, I would like to We have a housing shortage in most of the country's municipalities. The housing shortage is one of Sweden's biggest obstacles to growth and development. According to Boverket's estimate, 700,000 dwellings are missing. For many years Sweden has built too few homes. Today, housing is in line with the days of the million-dollar programme, which is a good thing. The Government's ambition is to build away the housing shortage by building temporary housing when the need is great. We share the Government's view that an improved housing situation in society contributes to reduced segregation and facilitates and strengthens the establishment of new arrivals. However, the starting point is still that the housing shortage should be solved in the long term through permanent construction and by creating a socially, ecologically and economically sustainable Sweden that gives everyone opportunities and confidence in the future. Mr President, I would like to We share the government's view of trust in the municipalities as to where temporary buildings are located and how they are designed and how the housing shortage is eventually addressed by permanent measures. It is important to mention that the supervision of municipalities also ensures that the land use granted under the fixed-term building permit ceases and that the site is restored after the agreed period has expired, unless the measure has been deemed to meet the requirements for permanent permission in the event of a re-examination. We share the government's view that the validity of the regulation should be limited to six years. It is difficult today to assess how long the need for the provision will last. Mr President, I would like to The government is investing heavily in housing construction. Now we are making the biggest investment in housing policy in 20 years. We have launched a large housing policy package, and the government has launched another 22 concrete point programmes with reforms for increased housing construction. We would like to emphasise that the housing shortage should be addressed fundamentally through permanent construction. However, the current situation results in a strained situation in housing throughout the country, and therefore temporary solutions for housing construction are necessary for a transitional period, as the government proposes. The key word in this proposal is temporary solutions in a situation where Sweden has had a high reception. Temporary relief is needed in order for municipalities to resolve the situation. The municipalities welcome the bill from the government. This means that municipalities now have the opportunity to address the lack of housing for a vulnerable group in our society. However, the starting point is still that the housing shortage will eventually be solved through permanent construction and create a socially, ecologically and economically sustainable Sweden that gives everyone opportunities and confidence in the future.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-475	Mr President, I would like to As my comrades said earlier, today we are debating the CU21 report on time-limiting building permits for housing. The legislative change that we are debating is needed to allow for more housing in less time than we can handle with the current regulations. The introduction of fixed-term building permits also for housing is a temporary measure that is needed right now because the housing shortage in Sweden is becoming acute for more and more people. The lack of housing is because we have too few homes in our country, not because we have too many people who want to live here. I would like to welcome more people to Sweden. The housing shortage is also not something that has arisen in recent years, but a deficiency that has long been a phenomenon in several of the country's municipalities. Today, unfortunately, the shortage is a fact for more and more people. The housing shortage is due to the fact that we have built far too little for a long time. Fortunately, it is now being built as only it all around our country. This means that more people will have a place to live, and that is good. In order to solve the acute shortage that we have today, we need this legislative change so that fixed-term building permits are also allowed for housing. However, at the pace of construction today, we will hopefully not have to build homes with fixed-term building permits in the future, but will be able to plan well to meet the needs we have at that time. Our common goal must be to be able to offer housing in the ordinary housing market, to everyone. That is why, as the government proposes and as the committee also supports, I believe that the amendment of the law should be limited in time. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-481	Mr President, I would like to There are 700 000 apartments missing in Sweden. Liberals are the party in the Swedish parliament that really recognises the need for a thorough and long-term reform of the housing market. We need more housing, and yes, I dare say it: we need more market thinking for the housing market to work. In my opinion, the government and the Minister for Housing are currently completely lacking in their understanding of the crisis. The government's response to the biggest housing policy challenge since the time of the million-dollar programme is a whole '70s policy with billions of grants to businesses – hears and marvels, businesses – not individuals. It's called subsidies. It did not work in the 1970s, and it will not work today either. The grants do not go to individuals who find it difficult to pay their rent, such as the lone mother or the poor pensioner, but to wealthy construction companies who do not want them. According to the Left Party, the Green Party and the Social Democrats, rich developers will receive subsidies. We in the Liberals want to see 3.6 billion in higher housing allowances for pensioners and targeted benefits for single parents. It is a real and responsible housing policy. But on to today's theme: Thanks to the Migration Agreement, today we are debating a legislative proposal on fixed-term building permits for buildings for residential purposes, but the legislation will apply to all types of housing for all people in Sweden. Municipalities should no longer have to prove that the need for temporary housing is temporary. It's enough to restore the ground. The change is necessary because we have a housing shortage in 240 of Sweden's 290 municipalities. At the same time, it is necessary to solve the housing situation of new arrivals. The Swedish democrats are today rejecting this law and are thus, in my opinion, showing their true face. The Swedish Democrats are heartless and irresponsible and would rather that asylum seekers go homeless in Sweden than that they should be given a dignified roof over their heads. It is a human right to have a roof over your head, whether you believe that the person should be allowed to stay in Sweden or not. I would also like to point out that much of what the Swedish Democrats have said today is a conspiracy theory. In reality, there is a housing shortage in 240 of Sweden's 290 municipalities, and what the Swedish Democrats say no to today is actually housing for all Swedes, not just new arrivals. But the real reason why they say no to the legislation is that it is a measure that should provide housing for new arrivals, and it is worth mentioning. The Liberals have endorsed the Instructions Act, which means that refugees who have been granted a residence permit in Sweden and thus may stay here will be distributed among all Swedish municipalities. We in the Liberals believe that Sweden cannot demand that all EU countries take responsibility for refugees unless all Swedish municipalities do the same. In the Liberals, therefore, we have taken a clear stand: we say no to more parallel societies. I am proud of the local representatives of the Liberals, who take their responsibility to ensure that their municipalities receive newly arrived refugees who have been granted a residence permit. We will not vote with parties who believe that Sweden needs breathing breaks or similar in the reception of municipal people who have been granted a residence permit. This would only mean that already strained municipalities like Södertälje and Botkyrka may take ekerö's responsibility, for example. I would like to say that the Liberals on Ekerö made me very proud as a liberal when they recently resisted demands to stop the reception of new arrivals. Contrary to what the majority at Ekerö means, we in the Liberals want some municipalities to take greater responsibility. Liberals are serious about fighting exclusion. We therefore want to see a review of the EBO legislation, which allows asylum seekers to choose to be placed in a municipality and to find their own accommodation instead of being assigned to an asylum accommodation. We believe that certain municipalities, municipalities and districts should be exempt from the reception of asylum seekers who choose their own accommodation. Today, we are sending asylum seekers with a direct ticket to exclusion by placing them in such areas. One example is my own home town Gårdsten in Angered, which has received a very large proportion of asylum seekers. You would have to work with those who are already there. I want to be clear with the government, and we have therefore given a written opinion today. We will not reserve ourselves or do anything else because it is an agreement. We Liberals believe that we cannot demand that municipal politicians resolve the housing situation for new arrivals unless we give them the right tools to do so. What we see here in Stockholm, for example, is that the red-green rule has failed in its reception simply because they do not have the right tools and not because they do not want to. The government cannot, on the one hand, refrain from giving the right tools and, on the other hand, as Ylva Johansson has done, threaten with sanctions. Instead of threatening sanctions, the government needs to do what the Liberals are demanding, namely to allow municipalities, for a short period, to allow new arrivals to live in condos with the same requirements as we currently have for asylum accommodation. I can take an example from Huddinge Municipality where the municipality has taken over a previous asylum accommodation. With the rules that we have today, one third of those who got a place in the asylum accommodation place in the housing that is now municipal because of the rules that we have. During a transition period, it is important to have a roof over your head and not have to live in different barracks, which is the second emergency solution. On the Liberal side, we therefore believe that the government needs to come back with a better proposal, so that our municipal politicians can do their job. They need to do their job right. Having said that, I am in favour of the proposal in the proposal and, therefore, of the committee's proposal.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-499	Mr President, I would like to In his speech, Robert Hannah pointed to the attitude of the Swedish democrats towards the proposal on the table for decision. It is interesting to listen to Robert Hannah in view of the moves that are often made on his part, and where, in my opinion, he could have a nicer tone. In this case, we from the Swedish Democrats believe that the proposal on the table on temporary and fixed-term building permits will slow down the growth of more housing in the long term. As I mentioned in my speech, with a number of comments, we believe that the long-term planning of more housing will be broken down if we allow temporary housing in an area of up to 15 years. It may be an obstacle to getting more housing. The temporary and rushed solution of how to try to find the number of homes that are missing in Sweden today, due to the fact that there has been completely uncontrolled immigration and only afterwards has it come to the conclusion that perhaps one should have a solution for where all these people are going to live, will ultimately only lead to us having bigger housing problems than we need to get more housing. It is at least the conviction of the Swedish democrats when we read the proposal that has been put on the table. The risk is that we will have a number of construction companies focusing on temporary housing instead of focusing on long-term construction.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-504	Mr President, I would like to It is worth knowing that 240 of Sweden's 290 municipalities have a housing shortage. 90 per cent of the Swedish population live in municipalities with a housing shortage. The proposal that is on the table will mean that all Swedes – regardless of background, regardless of skin colour, regardless of the conditions – will be given a greater opportunity to get a home. Let me give you some clear examples. My municipal councillor in Nacka municipality, Gunilla Grudevall-Grudevall-Steen, says that this proposal is absolutely fantastic for her, because she then does not have to prove that people in Nacka have a temporary need to find a home. And it's not. It is a permanent need, and many homes are lacking. Nacka municipality will be twice as big in a short time, and you have a lot of land that you plan to build on. Therefore, this bill means that the municipality of Nacka will be able to build very many temporary dwellings that they can then move on when the permanent dwellings are to be built. But as everyone knows, it takes about ten years from idea to housewarming. This means that this proposal allows temporary housing to be moved around and people to shelter their heads. In my hometown of Gothenburg, there will also be an incredible amount of construction. There are also plans to build many temporary dwellings until you get to the permanent houses, and they take time to plan. It is about detailed plans, appeals and various interests to be heard, and people should come in with their advice and views. It is therefore long processes that need to be handled. But when you say no to this legislation, Roger Hedlund, you also say no to the possibility of student housing being built. Right now, there is a case in the Supreme Court dealing with student housing that has not been possible because the City of Gothenburg has not been able to prove that they are temporary. It is this legislation that you are putting an end to. You put an end to it for a single reason, namely that you do not like refugees and that you do not like immigrants. And you are going to do everything in your power to stop these people from getting housing and shelter over their heads. In fact, it affects all Swedes, including those who vote for the Swedish Democrats.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-509	Mr President, I would like to Now that we have this proposal on the table, perhaps we can get a clear explanation from Robert Hannah, who supports this proposal, that it is so important to be able to override public interests in relation to these temporary and fixed-term building permits. This proposal means that one can refrain from listening to the public interest when it comes to the construction of new homes that will actually be there for up to 15 years. This proposal makes this possible. Why is it so important to abandon the public interest to be able to influence one's environment? I would like an answer to that. Then I would like an answer to how Robert Hannah and the Liberals thought about this issue when they created this situation in Sweden? We in the Swedish Democrats very much have an interest in creating more housing. However, we believe that this proposal will lead to the very opposite of the situation, which means that we will have fewer homes because these temporary homes will put obstacles in the way of permanent housing, which requires long planning. There is one reason why it takes a long time to build, namely the need to plan the areas. If housing stands in the way, which can be there for 15 years, it is clear that it will impair the possibilities of building new residential areas. I would like answers on how the Liberals have reasoned, rather than making accusations that the Swedish Democrats lack interest in more housing.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-514	Mr President, I would like to The question was: why is it so important to ignore the public interest? I can then inform the Swedish Democrats that the Tenants' Association's latest statistics on young adults who do not have their own home show that 350 000 young adults do not have their own home. 350,000 young adults who want their own apartment don't. The Tenants' Association will be presenting a new report this year, and I can guarantee that this figure will increase. Over 500 000 people are in Stockholm's housing queue, and over 200 000 are in Gothenburg's housing queue. We have enormous flaws. I believe that the public interest is to have a roof over your head, to have a home, to get a home that you can call your own and to get somewhere where you live your life. In my eyes, a home means freedom. Standing in a housing queue is not freedom. Sitting and waiting for processes is not freedom. We as politicians and parties in the Swedish parliament have a general responsibility to ensure that all Swedes have a roof over their heads because it is a human right. It is true that the proposal that the government has now put forward and on which we have negotiated was part of the migration agreement. But this was a necessary change that has been demanded by municipal councillors in almost every city in Sweden, because they, regardless of party color, want to ensure that they can give their residents shelter over their heads. The public's interest is thus met by this legislation. I am proud that we in the Swedish Parliament have been able to develop this simplification that means that students who come to Gothenburg, for example, get a roof over their heads and somewhere to live. That's the most important thing. My job as a housing politician is to ensure that we have more housing today, and we do so with this legislation. You are the ones who say no to this legislation.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-519	Mr President, I would like to The government invests heavily in research and innovation – just over 2.8 billion. That's a clear signal. Sweden will be one of the world's leading research and innovation countries and a leading knowledge nation. However, it is not only the size of the financial resources that is interesting. At least as important is the way in which financial resources are used. The research proposal therefore sets the light on the quality and content of research. It is important that the academic management of higher education institutions, together with researchers, conduct a constant dialogue on quality, profiling and strategic choices. Of course, other research actors should also focus on these perspectives. Swedish research and innovation capacity are internationally of high quality, but there are challenges. Let me mention three of these: This tells us that we need to strengthen the quality of research and our capacity for innovation. Against this background, the government is setting a new goal for research policy: our goal is to make Sweden one of the world's leading research and innovation countries and a leading knowledge nation, where high-quality research, higher education and innovation lead to society's development and well-being, to the competitiveness of the business community and to meet the societal challenges we face, both in Sweden and globally. ..................................................... This is a tightening up to date towards the goal formulation – Sweden should not only be a prominent research nation but one of the world's leading research and innovation countries and a leading knowledge nation. Mr President, I would like to Like the Olympic Games, there will be a research bill every four years. An important innovation is that the research proposal not only looks forward to four years but also establishes a ten-year perspective. It was a view we held as an opposition party. It is good that the government is now strengthening the research and education of higher education institutions at doctoral level through a significant increase of the basic grant by 1.3 billion. It strengthens the long-term strategic planning of higher education institutions and enables them to improve quality, strengthen the situation of young researchers, increase gender equality and strengthen collaboration with the surrounding society. I am proud today that several important research policy issues that we pursued in opposition are now included in the research bill. Let me mention a few: We argued that the education allowance should be removed and that doctoral students should be employed from day one. In particular, we wanted to improve the conditions for young researchers. We wanted to reduce the number of fixed-term contracts in academia and enable clearer career paths. We felt that gender equality should be intensified, including through an increased proportion of female professors, and that research funding should be distributed more equally. We argued for the importance of strengthening the school's scientific base through more practice-related school research. We argued that humanistic and social science research should be strengthened. We wanted to see an improved research link to basic education, a better research mobility and an increased internationalisation. This is now in the bill, and I am proud of that. All universities throughout the country need a strong research base. We therefore criticised the fact that the bourgeois government disadvantaged the four young universities and the country's colleges in the allocation of research resources. I'm glad the government is now giving a new signal. Among other things, the basic resource for research will be increased to at least 12 000 SEK per student. The other individual educational providers, who were denied research resources by the bourgeois government, will now also have a basic resource for research and education at doctoral level. All universities and colleges need to be strengthened. It is therefore welcome that the government is now proposing that the governance and resource allocation system be reviewed. It was an important issue for us when we were in opposition. Increased collaboration between academia, industry and the public sector is vital. That perspective was toned down in the bourgeois research bill that came in 2008. It got better in the research bill 2012, but now we take out the step length for an increased collaboration. The title of the research bill indicates this position shift: Knowledge in collaboration – for society's challenges and increased competitiveness. In this context, we can note that the Government states that collaboration should also be financially rewarded and used together with current quality indicators, such as publications and citations, as well as external funds when new funding is to be allocated. Mr President, I would like to Today we are facing major societal challenges. The Research Bill sets out three major global societal challenges and two national societal challenges. The global challenges are the climate challenge, the health challenge and the digitalisation challenge. The two national challenges are safe, inclusive and sustainable societies as well as improved learning outcomes in the school and education system. The six ten-year national research programmes of the Research Bill will be important instruments for meeting these challenges. They should be interdisciplinary and cross-sectoral and integrate education and research. In this way, we enable coherent knowledge environments. Added to this is another powerful instrument to meet societal challenges. This is the proposal for a power pool for innovation – Testbed Sweden. Here we find the five collaboration programmes of the National Innovation Council, which further strengthens collaboration. This initiative significantly reinforces strategic innovation areas. The investments in industrial research institutes and test and demonstration environments are also important to strengthen Swedish innovation capacity. To this will also be added that the strategic research areas remain and will further strengthen the focus of the research proposal. The report contains an announcement from five opposition parties on the labour market link of higher education. Like many of the reservations, the announcement has the character of breaking open doors. The joint reservation from S, MP and V states that the government also thinks this is important, as is also stated in the research bill. The government is working on this, so the announcement is more of a blow to the air. I would also like to say a few words about the infrastructure of research. Often we talk about ESS, MAX IV and Sci Life Lab. They are of course very important, but there are more infrastructure investments that are important for research and innovation. I know that there is concern about long-term financing. Significant amounts have been added to the higher education institutions in the two previous proposals, and this is also the case in this proposal. It should provide an increased possibility of financing. At the same time, the Government states in the research bill that it intends to review the issue of the possibility of charging fees from those who use research infrastructures. I would like to stress the importance of ensuring the long-term financing of research infrastructure. Mr President, I would like to Free and independent research is extremely important. It's supposed to be protected. This is not in contrast to the importance of increased collaboration between academia, industry and the public sector. We need both a strong curiosity research and a strong challenge-driven research. I would like to conclude by saying that the research will be in the service of education. Through increased knowledge and new insights, we gain a deeper understanding of ourselves and the world in which we live. Research is a tool for free thought and critical voice. We need fearless and committed researchers who challenge our way of thinking and acting. In this way, research becomes a defence for democracy and a tool for progressive social development. Mr President, I would like to I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-548	Mr President, I would like to Today, the world is competing for the very best of knowledge. It is therefore important that Sweden continues the work of the Alliance Government to increase the quality of research and innovation. If we are to succeed, we need to take a holistic approach to issues ranging from education to the conditions we give knowledge-intensive companies to grow. Here we have major concerns, because today we see a great deal of courage in Swedish companies' research and development efforts. Strong measures to reverse developments are therefore extremely important to put in place. Last year, the OECD presented various proposals on how Sweden can behave. How can we sharpen our competitiveness by means of research and innovation? But these proposals do not comment on the government's strategy at all – this despite the fact that the government itself has commissioned the investigation. It's strange, and it doesn't feel very serious. Instead, the strategy we are debating today seems rather thin and contains few concrete proposals. For us, how it will contribute to increasing excellence and Swedish competitiveness is a big question mark. The proposal also shows that the high tone that the government parties had in opposition was the most empty barrels that rattled. For what really happened to the promise of increased basic funding? What happened to the career system? And what happened to the so-called confident governance? Not much, Mr President. Basic funding will remain at the same level, but with the difference that higher education institutions are now also forced to take responsibility for more and thus have increased costs. The issue of setting up a clear career system seems to be on ice, and with regard to the government's confident governance of higher education institutions there are some real low-water brands. I think about how the government ran over Dalarna University by forcing them to keep a campus in Borlänge at an additional cost for the university of about SEK 13 million per year, and this despite the fact that this campus is 20 or 30 minutes away. I am thinking, not least, of the proposal we are debating, in which the government openly grunts against the universities and points out that, in some cases, the implementation of higher education and research policy is too much left to the respective universities and colleges. What will be the result of this? And what shall be of the prized academic freedom? Is that perhaps why the government recently hand-picked the universities that would be allowed to engage in various research assignments? I am thinking of the latest move on internship school research, where the government runs over its own internship school institute, the School Research Institute, and also runs over a number of higher education institutions that do not even get a chance to apply for research money in competition, which is accepted in this society. In the research bill, however, the government is pleased to announce that it wants to review the resource allocation system. This is an issue that we Moderates have been pursuing for years. As we have previously pointed out, we hope that the investigation will also examine the issue of allocating resources for education and research. However, given that the review is not expected to enter into force until 2020, we are greatly surprised that the government does not tell us how the funds will be allocated over the next few years. This is a principle on which we believe Parliament should be allowed to decide, but which the government seems to want to deal with on its own. It doesn't feel right. After all, it is about SEK 520 million and SEK 780 million respectively. In this context, the Government points out that collaboration should be of greater importance – even as large as the current indicators for external grants and citations and publications. That surprises us. The Moderates certainly share the view that collaboration is important, but we believe that it should not overshadow scientific and artistic quality and excellence. Another issue where we Moderates think that the government had a good ambition is that when they chose to include higher education in the bill on research and innovation. We had high expectations in this area, but unfortunately we do not find any significant proposals as to how education takes place. We also do not see how it will achieve higher quality or be better matched to what the working world needs. I have to say that, unlike my colleague Thomas Strand, I am surprised and wonder where the widely talked about long-termism went. Didn't it go for any more? In that case, I think it can be said that it was at least as prominent in the Alliance's previous research proposals through the strategic research areas as what is claimed in this context. What do the Moderates think? What are our suggestions? For a more full picture, I refer to our follow-up motion. But there are a few things that I would like to highlight in particular: We increase the basic funding by SEK 300 million more than the government does. We point out that all merit positions should give the right to review and that both scientific and pedagogy, pedagogic skills and mobility should be meritorious. In addition, we raise the issue of the importance of leadership. Given the large resources that Sweden invests in higher education and research – this is about SEK 54 billion per year – we believe that more measurable sub-targets should be introduced. It is good that the government is taking a few steps, but we want to go further together with the other alliance parties. In addition, we believe that a specific function should be created that can make a comprehensive and independent analysis of the results and effects of the huge amount of government investment. It is something that exists in most comparable countries but not with us. We also stress that Sweden should match the EU's research programme, which is in seven-year research periods. We want this because we think that we need to optimise and better coordinate the Swedish research programmes with what the European Union provides. We think this could contribute to Sweden getting more money and more research with more Swedish foremarks being done. Some other questions that we think the government misses are how Sweden should be able to attract talent in the future. This also applies to the important development of digitalisation and a specific national research programme that we are proposing. In recent years, Sweden has invested heavily in world-leading infrastructure. Sci Life Lab in Stockholm and AX IV in Lund are already in place, and ESS is under construction in Lund. However, in order to maximise the benefits of these facilities, a clear strategy is needed. The Moderates are convinced that these facilities could be a great opportunity for us to increase Sweden's attractiveness as a research and innovation nation and thus attract more foreign researchers, experts and companies. The Moderates have a vision, and it is that Sweden will establish itself as an attractive research hub. However, in addition to the world-leading infrastructure, we need to be able to also appear attractive in other areas, such as access to housing, international youth schools – I am thinking of the IB programmes – and jobs for accompanying partners, not to mention the tax system and economic conditions. A prerequisite for recruiting foreign expertise is that the Migration Agency's processing times can be radically shortened when it comes to foreign students and guest researchers. The current situation is unsustainable. With all due respect for the fact that the Migration Board has an enormous amount of work to do, it is unacceptable that they and the government do not get to grips with the long processing times. Digitalisation is another area of the future that the government does not make much noise about in its proposal. This is surprising given that the Innovation Council has had just this as a focus area since its creation. The government certainly says that digitalisation should be integrated into all the different initiatives, and we think that is a good thing. In fact, the special efforts mentioned were initiated by the Alliance Government as early as 2009. There is an extra SEK 150 million budgeted for 2020, but it is a question of whether it should be enough. We call for a digital strategy for higher education and for the knowledge environments in universities and higher education institutions to be strengthened in this regard. This is particularly important in the social sciences and in health care and pedagogy. We have our own national research programme that is about preparedness in a troubled time. The aim is to create increased knowledge in order to be able to meet future threat scenarios. Examples of issues that we want to highlight are safer and safer food and water supply, as well as issues of psychological warfare and violent extremism. Interestingly, a united constitutional committee supported this and stressed that they also wanted to see more research on radical Islamism, precisely because it is an anti-democratic ideology that challenges our fundamental democratic values. Mr President, I would like to Since 1477, higher education and research have been important cornerstones for the development of our country. But we can't even rest on such old laurels. We need to work strategically and systematically to better match the skills needs of today and the future and to meet societal challenges with discoveries that benefit people and translate research into new companies and ideas. It is the way to new jobs and success, and it would make our welfare strong. It requires leadership and autonomy, Mr President, and it requires a new government. Of course, we support all our reservations, but for the winning time, I only ask for reservations 2, 10 and 67.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-572	Mr President, I would like to Betty Malmberg doesn't give much for this bill that I hold in my hand. Most of it's probably bad, it sounds like listening to her. Maybe it belongs to the game that it should be so. I think, when I read the reservations, that there is quite a broad consensus on how to look at research policy. The reservations do not really give anything new but are repetitions of what is in the bill. You were in power for eight years, but you did little about the problems you yourself, Betty Malmberg, raise. It is only now, with a new government, that we are actually taking action and proposing changes. Let me give you an example. Reservation 15 from the bourgeois parties is about merit employment in the university. You write that there is a lack of clarity and uncertainty about certain merit positions in the university. You want a clearer structure. You write that Sweden lacks a coherent system for meriting young researchers early in her career and that you want the government to now grant access to open-ended employment and consider a uniform system for merit employment. Yeah, that's great. That's what we did for many years in opposition. You were in government for eight years and did nothing about it. Why are you standing here now pretending that the eight years have been wiped out? You had a chance to change this. Now the government is saying that it should take hold of this with merit employment and make a better system. Why didn't you do anything yourself?
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-576	Mr President, I would like to It is a fairly well-known rhetorical approach to blame its own shortcomings on previous governments. Not least, Thomas Strand used this approach when we last debated the space strategy. So I am not surprised that this is where we are now landing. The thing is, Thomas Strand, that we, and I mean the alliance parties and yourself, who actually pushed the issue of merit employment hard – and I want to give you credit for that – basically agreed that we would change the system. But now, Thomas Strand, the question has disappeared. What does the bill say? Well, it says that the government intends to strengthen follow-up. Fine. That's great. But it does not say that it will be reviewed. You mentioned earlier that the education grants would be removed and that it is also an issue that you have been pushing. It's very good, but the thing is that most of them have already been phased out, so we can sort of just check it out. But I don't really want to unplug this whole merit-a-job thing. Because where did the question go, Thomas Strand? Good research requires curious researchers and clear career paths. Otherwise, we risk many young people leaving the academy. That is why we in the Alliance have written this very thing together. I would like to ask the question back to Thomas Strand: where did the question go? Then I would like to come back to other things that I miss in the bill and that the alliance government did investigations about but where the current government does not take action. I'm surprised, but I'll get back to that in the next line.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-580	Mr President, I would like to In 2012, the bourgeois government crept right into the collective bargaining between the parties on a new regulation for merit employment. It was then decided quite frankly that this should be the case, and it should not give the right to any opportunity to be examined for an indefinite period of employment. The bourgeois government did so in 2012. Since then we have argued for a change in this regulation, and I pushed this quite hard. In the spring of 2014 I stood here in the speaker's chair and debated the issue with Jan Björklund. The funny thing was that that morning, before our debate, Jan Björklund went out and said that now we have changed our mind and will introduce a provision that there should be a right to be examined for permanent employment. But then nothing happened before the 2014 elections. This issue is not forgotten by the government. This question is alive. It even states in the bill that the Government intends to return to the matter on the basis of the proposal put forward in an investigation. So I am quite calm that the government is going to resolve this issue. The arguments of the Alliance and Betty Malmberg are recognised by many of the reservations contained in this report. I do not think you did so much yourself to improve things, but now that the government is making good proposals for improvements, you will not remember that you yourself have been in power for eight years, but are repeating the same thing as a parrot.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-584	Mr President, I would like to As I said, there are many things that we lack. Perhaps that is what Thomas Strand thinks we are repeating as parrots in the reservations. That is not true, but we do not have the measures that we took and the investigations that are on the table with the government. What this report says is that the matter is being prepared within the Government Office. Thomas Strand asks what we're missing. We're missing a space strategy. It is an issue that is strongly linked to today's societal challenges. It is a Swedish force area, and it is a question of the future. Do you know that two out of ten instruments that are sent on a mission to Jupiter are made in Sweden? We're missing a management investigation. The OECD emphasises that our universities need more strategic leadership. That question is under preparation. We wonder where the Higher Education investigation has gone for twenty years. It talks about the link to the labour market, about the need for higher education institutions to be better at having a dialogue with the labour market on what is needed. We do not have an OECD analysis. We lack an analysis of MOOC, which is well an exemplary path for lifelong learning. The thing is, Thomas Strand, the world is not waiting. We understand that there is no quick fix. But we need a quick start. Something has to happen to all these investigations that are just being prepared. You can't hide everything in new investigations.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-590	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservations 40 and 58. The government's research proposal states that career paths for researchers must be better and safer. We agree with a great deal in the government's research proposal, although it contains few concrete proposals. As far as career paths are concerned, we agree that they must be made safer and more secure. On the other hand, scientists must not be more numerous than they are today. The most suitable people must research what they are best suited for. This does not mean that we have to increase volumes all the time. The government also mentions quality in its proposal, not very often but in any case. It's praiseworthy. It has been invested in quantity for several decades, both within the university and in research. Maybe it's been good. Maybe it's been a real strategy. But now we have come to a breakpoint where we have to start thinking about quality instead. The talk about strengthening basic research is also laudable. However, something else must be applied if we are really to strengthen basic research. The resources are limited, and we cannot go for everything. If we make the idea experiment that we are instead spending all the money that now goes to strategic research areas on basic funding, how much less research would it be in these strategic areas? There might not be any reduction at all. We believe that the strategic research areas should be reduced – contrary to what Thomas Strand said – and instead spend that money on increased basic funding. We share the government's view that excessive external funding poses problems in different ways. It is mentioned in the research bill. The given proposal is well to reduce the requirements for external funding from various government institutions that distribute research funds. But I cannot read in the bill that such a sharp proposal is in hand. Mr President, I would like to The government's wording on cooperation has been a controversial point, also in public. There have been strong criticisms. In all honesty, we have also pressed for this cooperation before. But the government is going too far in its bill. Collaboration should be done to achieve results; collaboration should not be an end in itself. If collaboration is made into an award-based parameter, it will unfailingly push collaboration into absurdity. You will work together when you are actually going to sit at the test tubes, or whatever you are doing. We believe, however, that higher education institutions should cooperate administratively and in other ways to a greater extent than today. We have also stated this in several motions. There are great gains to be made through such collaboration, both economic as well as profiling and knowledge-based. We are definitely opposed to gender quotas for research funding. I do not know whether the text of the proposal can be interpreted. But at least I interpreted the text as saying that the government is in favour of gender quotas for research funding. That would be very destructive, we believe. More men would then be able to get gender quotas into higher education; there is an overweight of women at our higher education institutions. I think everyone in this House understands how wrong, even insane, that would be. The research proposal states that the Swedish Research Council's already ongoing research on racism can be part of a major project on migration. But the research is conducted by such individuals as Tobias H ü binette, Mattias Gardell and his wife Edda Manga. Gardell's project is called Angry White Men. Is that research to be taken seriously? And should it rest on a scientific basis? This is just not serious. Those people have distinguished themselves as anything but objective. The report says a lot about the fight against violent extremism. That is not the activity we are opposed to, quite the contrary. Let's applaud it. We criticise precisely what we say we are criticising, nothing else. Mr President, I would like to It feels a bit apart to talk about Blasieholmen and the Nobel Foundation's planned facility when we discuss the research bill. But the government mentioned it in its bill. That's why we pick up that glove. Of course, we have nothing against the Nobel Foundation building a facility for its activities. But the location and the size of the building means we're against the plans. It is planned to build a modernist mastodon building, surrounded by 19th century architecture. It will destroy Stockholm skyline. In addition, an old customs building will be demolished in connection with the construction. We strongly oppose it and propose that the Nobel Foundation build its facility in, for example, the Gulf of Winter, where Nobel was actually active. It may not be as flashy, but it will be absolutely as functional. We also want the research grants for artistic colleges to be combined with the basic grant. Many higher education institutions have expressed a desire for a global grant instead of two grants where one is earmarked for research. We want to start with a pilot project at the artistic universities. We would then give a single grant. Note that this does not mean that we give these higher education institutions less money, but each higher education institution has greater freedom to distribute the money. As far as the Board of Higher Education is concerned, of course, it is a major issue. In the long term, we will present our own proposal, in which the influence is shared between business, higher education institutions and academics from external higher education institutions. This is a difficult balance issue. The autonomy and freedom of the teaching institutions shall be balanced with the influence and transparency of the State. We have a good proposal in this area that should be tested. We intend to present it in the future. Finally, Mr President, we must develop a policy to promote research, not only at our universities – which we have discussed to 90% in this House – but also for companies and individual researchers. Individual researchers are a particularly disadvantaged group that we should do much more for political purposes. It is possible to help researchers realize their inventions and survive in a tough world where foreign nations and big companies try to snap at themselves, or even kill new inventions. It is inventions that can benefit all mankind.
i-CQ7Evu9SkGvuThZuPPXrYx	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Robert Stenkvist, for your speech! I note that we even have some consensus on some of the issues. This is the case, for example, with at least trying to allocate resources for higher education and research in a grant. I also see similarities with what you say in your speech about how cooperation should be valued. That is something that we are putting forward in reservation 10. I was going to ask Robert Stenkvist about the government's case. You from the Swedish Democrats are behind them. Thomas Strand said earlier that they are now sharpening the target. Not only should you be successful, but you should even become one of the world's leading research and innovation countries. This starving sounds very good and looks very good when you read it. At the same time, we know that Swedish companies have reduced and moved out a lot of their research and development. This is about 1% of GDP, i.e. 35 billion annually that goes by Sweden. I have a question for Robert Stenkvist. The government says that we will be the best in the world and that we will strengthen our competitiveness. But what in the bill is it that makes you think that this development is going to turn around?
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-610	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my speech, there is a great deal in the government proposal that we agree with in terms of objectives. However, as I also said, it contains few concrete proposals. A policy that strengthens us internationally must, of course, be based on concrete proposals. It is the sharpest criticism that can be made of the research bill, that it contains a form of line number indicating a line, but there are very few concrete proposals. We are not opposed to the objective itself, but we are calling for more concrete proposals. We have also noted that business research has decreased – I do not remember the figures, but Betty Malmberg may do so. We must do something to reverse the trend so that companies invest more in research. At the same time, there will also be problems if there is too much co-financing. Developments must certainly be reversed. Perhaps you need to review tax rules or something else. We're looking at it. But I fully agree, we must reverse this trend.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-613	Mr President, I would like to I note that Robert Stenkvist and the Swedish Democrats agree with what the government is writing, but that we do not really know how, why or in what way. It's unfortunate. That is the danger of this type of proposal. I'm going to read a blog from a Vice-Chancellor at one of our higher education institutions. She wrote: The Minister for Higher Education has said that in proposals there are many issues to come back to. These are very conscious statements because, according to the Minister, they do not want to commit themselves to Parliament. This is something the Minister can tell you about and then develop. What is unfortunate is whether it is the case that we want to round up Parliament and therefore make unclear proposals. As I have said before, there are many questions, but few concrete answers are given. There is another issue that concerns one of the Alliance's reservations. We would like to take part in and think about how the allocation of resources will take place for 2018 and 2019. Of course, the government does not want that. You don't say anything about how to do it, and that's unfortunate. It is about a lot of money and principles, and we think that more parties should pay attention to it. I have another question for Robert Stenkvist. It's about gender, and you don't like it. But when it comes to Malmö University, you say that research is not up to date.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-620	Mr President, I would like to Malmö University has nothing to do with gender. We think that some gender research does not measure up while some do. Both me and our political secretaries have been looking at the research at Malmö University. It's a bit of our job to check the individual research projects, and I don't think it meets the requirements that can be made to be called a university. That's the first thing. The second is that Lund University is very close to Malmö University. Why not cooperate? We have raised a lot of motions about collaboration between different higher education institutions. Here one could have a fruitful collaboration between Lund University and Malmö University, where Lund is a university and Malmö is a university. Had the universities been ten miles further apart then it would have been a factor that spoke to appoint Malmö University to university. I don't know if I would have supported it anyway, but it would have been something easier. Malmö and Lund are 40 miles apart. When it comes to resource allocation, a few years ago we were invited to Rosenbad to discuss it. Why were we if we weren't allowed to think? I assumed that was the case. Otherwise, we could've missed that dinner. The objective is sweeping, but we have no objection to the objective itself. Sweden will become a world-leading research nation. No, we don't think the other way around.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-626	Mr President, I would like to A society that is to develop needs help in navigating. One of the tools is education and research. Today we are debating the Government's research proposal Knowledge in collaboration. It contains a long-term research strategy that will give Sweden a place among the leading research nations. To achieve this, universities and colleges need to interact with the surrounding society: schools, business and civil society. It is therefore important to strengthen research resources even at smaller higher education institutions and at certain individual education providers – in order to ensure the connection of education to research and to enable the whole country to live and develop. Having a university in a region has a major impact on the opportunities for people to learn and develop throughout their lives. It also provides a region with significantly better opportunities to recruit employees and thus create the conditions for the whole region to benefit from this. The national research programmes include: the climate programme, sustainable society building, migration and integration, antibiotic resistance, applied welfare research, and work life research. To ensure the long-term sustainability of research, the programmes are ten years old. The programmes are gradually being built up in 2017 – 2020 and will be added to 420 million when they are fully built in 2020. These national research programmes will create good conditions for the participation of research to solve societal challenges and for interdisciplinary and cross-sectoral collaboration but also to strengthen collaboration between research and education. Research on education needs to be strengthened. The Government therefore commissions the universities in Uppsala, Gothenburg, Umeå and Karlstad, together with municipalities and free schools, to initiate research collaborations that will be conducted in schools and classrooms. The universities, together with the other participants, will disseminate the results of the experimental activities and the various collaboration models used. In 2017, the Government will invest SEK 15 million for this purpose. In 2018, it is estimated that SEK 20 million will be invested, after which it will be SEK 30 million per year. The assignment shall be sub-reported to the Ministry of Education annually, but no later than 1 March, during the period 2018 – 2021. Then it will be finalized on 1 March 2022. The programmes will contribute to the creation of coherent knowledge environments. Mr President, I would like to The Government has also set up an investigation to suggest how universities that conduct teacher and pre-school education can create a long-term collaboration for practical research together with municipalities and free schools. The investigators will also report on existing collaboration in practice-related research and explain what constitutes obstacles to collaboration and then present proposals for different models to promote practical school research. Cecilia Christersson, Vice-Chancellor at Malmö University, is appointed special investigator. The assignment shall be presented no later than 1 November 2017. The investigator's work shall be carried out in close connection with the universities responsible for the experimental activities. Mr President, I would like to The climate challenge is great. That's why the government has made the biggest climate research effort ever. Sweden has great potential to be a leading nation for research and innovation related to the climate challenge. At the same time, we can contribute to new businesses and job creation. Sweden is leading the climate transition and is now taking new steps through a strategic investment in research and innovation. We're going to export solutions, not emissions. Environmental and eco-innovations are innovations that contribute to both improved environment and a good economic exchange. Eco-innovations combine the environment and the ability to make it commercially interesting. A successful eco-innovation is an innovation that has a high eco-efficiency, provides a major improvement factor and has a good market and profitability potential. Investing in developing systems that contribute to a sustainable society is part of the ambition of our efforts. Another part is to give universities and colleges the opportunity to contribute to the development of a fossil-free welfare society. More and more countries are working purposefully to improve their environmental work but also their transition to renewable energy. On the previous weekend I had the opportunity to meet many people from several countries around the world when I attended the Global Green and European Green Congress in Liverpool. Environment and climate were a common thread in all the conversations I participated in. Many talk about renewable energy and how we can replace the loss of energy that happens when countries start to phase out nuclear power after the last accident, which occurred in Fukushima. This means an increased need for research, and here we will be involved. Mr President, I would like to Knowledge of collaboration is a large and important report. It is impossible to cover everything in a few minutes in a speaker's chair. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-9zgPzgsdqHGqp54aghtcsB	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Knutsson, for your speech. Some of the issues mentioned by Elisabet Knutsson were raised in my speech. I am thinking, among other things, of practical school research. However, I do not see that Elisabet Knutsson has taken note of the criticism that exists against the proposal. There are criticisms from the School Research Institute, because they feel run over, and also from several universities, which also feel run over. They wonder why the government has handpicked certain universities. Among the things is that many other colleges work fantastically well with the important question of how to get more research into the classrooms. One of them is Halmstad University. I have been there and listened to how they work further in their regional perspective and how they drive research and active learning in the school halls. This is also found in Dalarna University and in many other places. For this reason, many questions arise as to why the government has pulled out and Mr President, I would like to I know that Elisabet Knutsson as well as I am a teacher. As a teacher, I would like to ask a question about the digitisation of higher education, which is something we lack. The state requires teachers to be active and skilled educators in this area as well. Why hasn't the government delivered here?
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-644	Mr President, I would like to I think we talk a lot about digitalisation, not least in connection with its expansion. We're talking about the school being part of it. Perhaps it is not the government's duty to tell us exactly how the school should work on this. What the government and we are going to do is provide opportunities to expand networks. The Swedish National Agency for Education also talks a lot about digitalisation. It's on the whole. The question arises as to why these universities have been designated. Many universities and colleges have good insights into this research and in teacher education. Regardless of which universities you choose, you still have to make up your mind about some. But it is not forbidden for others to keep up on the train. We are talking about cooperation, and I assume that cooperation will take place here.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-647	Mr President, I would like to What distinguishes these universities from others who are to accompany them is that they got a money pool, specifically earmarked for this purpose. That opportunity does not get the others. I believe that digitalisation is an essential issue in our society. Elisabet Knutsson says we talk a lot. Yes, Mr President, we talk infinitely about this in society. But I wish we could also see some of it in the bill that is on the table. It's about digitising knowledge environments. I saw an amazing thing online about how to work with the teacher program in Singapore. Teachers had the opportunity to learn didactically and pedagogically how to use the computer in education. The type of infrastructure that was in the film I saw is not anywhere in Sweden, I would argue. It is not available at our universities. When I've been around talking to them, it has in many ways looked like any lecture hall. Of course, it is the universities that have to take the lead, but the government should provide incentives to create a kind of research infrastructure, a learning infrastructure that meets the digital society. We miss that today, and I miss it in the government's research bill. Sweden and we Moderates think that we should be a modern and innovative knowledge nation. Then we can't miss the digitization train, because it honks and drives.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-651	Madam President, I would like There's some other parts to this. Digitization may be part of it. There is a discussion about digitalisation elsewhere than in the research bill. The responsibility for the infrastructure for digitalisation lies with Peter Eriksson, but also in many other places. Just because it is not specifically mentioned in the bill by name, so to speak, it is not that these collaborative programmes and research programmes do not have digitization in themselves. There's something that's got to be there. No one can work constructively and well without having a structure and infrastructure for digitalisation. Regarding this, as with any lecture hall, it is clear that the universities decide where to put their money. They have to decide what to do with their digitalisation.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-654	Madam President, I would like We are in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I only support the Alliance's reservations Nos 2 and 10 and the Center Party's reservation No 72. We will now discuss issues relating to higher education and research. In the run-up to this research bill, the government made a major issue of its involvement in higher education, research and innovation. Many of us had high expectations of what this research bill would mean, now that it also took a hold on higher education. I will come back to the fact that it was not so much. It is important to bear in mind that Sweden today is a country at the forefront in terms of higher education, research and innovation. We have very good conditions. Thanks to these conditions, we have also created new opportunities. It has become new discoveries that increase understanding. It contributes to better health and better knowledge and leads to jobs and entrepreneurship, more growth and thus also greater tax revenues. During the time of the Alliance, the funds increased to historical levels. Between 2009 and 2016, funding for research increased by EUR 9 billion. That was an increase of 30%. I can only say that the government has reduced the pace of investment compared to the time of the Alliance. This is a time when private investment in research and development is falling in Sweden. It is a time when Sweden is receiving less EU funding than before. This is a worrying development. Madam President, I would like Private investment in research and development is the vast majority. It is therefore a matter of concern that the government is to such a small extent highlighting how we will get more of private investment in research and development in Sweden. While private investment in research and development is decreasing in Sweden, it is increasing in 18 out of 22 comparable countries. This reduces Swedish competitiveness and innovation capacity compared with the other countries. This is a worrying development. To turn this around, you need to create attractive research environments and innovation environments. But there must also be better conditions for running companies and investing in research and development in Sweden. Two parts are missing in the bill but also in the government's coherent policy in the whole area. The first part deals with the regulatory framework. In order for more people to want to invest in Sweden, we must have regulations that are permitting. We need to be better at having legislation that is open to new innovations at an early stage, so that we can be a test country for new and exciting research results and innovations. The second part deals with the most powerful instrument: the tax tool. A good and attractive tax policy means that more people want and dare to invest in Sweden, both companies and others, and that more people can go to Sweden. There we see that Sweden is losing. The new government has also significantly increased taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. Linked to research and innovation, this is worrying. Madam President, I would like Sweden is getting worse at getting EU money home. It is therefore also important to emphasise what the Alliance points out: that we must have an objective to get more money from the Horizon programme. Since the last framework programme, we have lost quite a lot of money. It is a sign that we have a long journey forward. Through the large programmes we can also do more good in Sweden in different ways. When talking about research and innovation in this context, it is also important to highlight that Sweden needs to do even more to use all the data we have in Sweden. We have a history of being a country with a lot of bureaucracy and authority. We have collected a lot of statistics that must be published to enable both research and innovation. On the part of the Center Party, we see it as part of research policy that the funds that are publicly funded should also be required to have open data. This leads to innovation, but it also leads to reduced research fraud and increased and faster development in this area in order to achieve the goal. Madam President, I would like The government has made a very large number of that this research bill's major focus is collaboration. It takes a long time to count the number of times it is mentioned in the research bill. What one fails to mention in the whole research bill, however, is how the term should be interpreted. It's pretty unfortunate. If collaboration is to have a huge influence on how funds are to be distributed, it is also important that there is a clearer definition of this. We in the Alliance have a common reservation that points out that there should be a definition but also that this should go to the Riksdag to be discussed further. Collaboration is a means of achieving better results. It's not a goal in itself. That calls for clarity. It also requires that we do not focus on collaboration at the expense of scientific or artistic quality and excellence. I hope that's the government's intention. But based on what we can read in the research bill, it is difficult to know. Madam President, I would like Higher education, which was the new part of the research bill this time from the Red-Green Government, shines with its absence. The government has announced that an investigation will be carried out into the resource allocation system. It is very welcome. The Center Party has been a driving force for this and thinks it is necessary to get a new way of looking at how we should allocate resources to higher education and to research in Sweden. Together with the Alliance, we are opening the way for a joint grant to be made, but we have also identified a number of areas that we think need to be strengthened. Among other things, we believe that the link with working life must be strengthened in the future resource allocation system. Care must be taken to increase the pass rate for those students who start an education, so that they are given the right conditions to also finish it quickly and well. Above all, however, efforts are needed to strengthen the quality of higher education. We have high quality in Swedish higher education, but it can be even better. It is therefore unfortunate that the first thing the government did in terms of higher education policy was to remove the funds allocated by the Alliance to reward quality. I hope it's going to be a parameter now that this is being investigated. It is difficult to know, as it has not yet been presented what the government will do regarding the investigation into the resource allocation system. The second part deals with internationalisation. The government has now presented a report on internationalisation since the proposal was tabled. What can be said is that the issue is being pushed far into the future despite the fact that today we have huge problems getting international top students and top researchers to Sweden. This was especially true during last autumn, when we had a problem where hundreds of students could not start their studies due to long processing times and bureaucracy in Sweden. In addition, the Government is constantly presenting new proposals to increase income taxation. This makes it less attractive for people to go to Sweden. This applies to both researchers and students, but also to the private business sector, where we see that investments are decreasing. It is extremely unfortunate and risks that investments in Sweden will continue to fall. Madam President, I would like For the Center Party we see it as extremely important to strengthen autonomy among universities. What we can see from the government's work so far is that autonomy has not been a guiding principle, given its actions regarding, for example, Dalarna University. We believe that autonomy should be strengthened. The profession should be given greater influence. The state role should be more of follow-up, quality follow-up and more, and to ensure that the universities that do the very best for both students and for research are rewarded and developed. It is also about focusing on where we should make detailed regulations and not. I think that the government has not found a good balance in what it has done so far. We also want to see increased profiling. When you discuss the issue of research and higher education with different higher education institutions, you can see that they want to better profile themselves in the areas they are strong. I believe that this is an important part to take into account in terms of the resource allocation system, but also in the future debate on higher education policy. How can we strengthen the profile of the different universities? Madam President, I would like We have an announcement to make to the government in today's debate on the link to work. I reacted when Thomas Strand felt in his speech that the announcement was a blow to the air. The announcement is based on the fact that we from the Alliance have put forward a proposal to strengthen the link between work and college. We believe that the government should take the initiative for a better dialogue between employers and higher education institutions together with industry organisations and the like. Thomas Strand calls this a blow in the air. This is a bit remarkable given that if you ask the students themselves, as has been done in some studies, half of them say that there is a poor labour market link to their education. If there is anything we need, it is better links to the labour market. Most students choose to study higher education for two reasons. One is that to get a specific job, the other is to get a job at all. Then the labour market link must be even better. There is a lot more to say and highlight from the Center Party's proposals on research and research issues. I recommend to those who are more interested to read the Center Party's motion and therefore thank you for the floor.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-676	Madam President, I would like This is not a tax policy debate. But I can't help commenting on what Fredrik Christensson says. We don't charge taxes to make life more difficult for people. We charge taxes to build welfare, strengthen higher education, strengthen research and strengthen innovation. This is how we have built Sweden for many years. I believe that the Swedish people have a pretty great understanding that our taxes should be used to make society good. You spent a lot of money in your years in power. That's what you're supposed to wear because it's important. Now we may have to continue four more years of progressive development in terms of support for universities, colleges and research. Maybe there was too much money. At the last measurement I saw, there were SEK 17 billion of unspent funds out at the universities. One can also think about how the money is spent. It's not just the money it's about. We criticised the bourgeois government for disadvantaging young universities and higher education institutions in the distribution of research resources. I know that the Center often protects all colleges throughout the country. I would like to ask Fredrik Christensson a few questions now that I have the opportunity. Do you support the government's signal that we should have a fairer distribution of research resources? Can we agree on that question in the future? Do you support the fact that other individual education providers will also receive a basic resource for research that they were denied by the bourgeois government?
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-679	Madam President, I would like I'd like to start with the introduction. I share Thomas Strand's view that this is not just about money. It is a lot about regulations and the like. That is also what I highlighted in my speech. We must ensure that there are better conditions for research and innovation in Sweden. There, the regulatory framework is an important prerequisite. As far as legislation is concerned, I believe that in future we will need to be even more fast-footed and change the legislation to enable new innovations. As far as taxes are concerned, I can only say that during its years the Alliance managed to reduce taxes for many people. At the same time, we got more money for the treasury to distribute. Among other things, we spent more money on research and innovation than the government is doing now, despite raising the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship by over 30 billion. It is good that our policy on higher education has come forward and that it is shared by the Social Democrats that it should exist throughout the country. This is an extremely important issue for us in the Center Party. It is for a number of reasons. It is for education. The colleges we have today are usually also good local centres to drive growth. Then it is of course important that there is research linked to it. The university is based on the research link. It is a later debate. We can discuss whether there should be more resources at university or at university of applied sciences, for example, which has more focus on work and less on research links. We want to see good research there too. I also highlighted the issue of profiling in my speech. I think that is crucial for the smaller universities in particular. Many of the smaller universities in some places are extremely skilled in certain areas. That's where they want to evolve. We must create conditions for them so that they can develop in those areas and put more of their resources where they are very good so that they can get even better.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-684	Madam President, I would like I hope that the Center Party wants to be involved in the work to create a fairer system of allocation of resources. We're not supposed to fire-tax the great strong. But we will have a fair system that benefits research throughout the country and at all our universities. When it comes to quality, Fredrik Christensson forgot to mention that during his term of office we contributed SEK 900 million as quality money. It's not like we took away a lot of money. We provide a great deal to strengthen quality. I have a small question that I've been thinking about and which has puzzled me a little. This applies to reservation 13, which the Center has written to the bill, about the conditions for doctoral students. There, the Center says that the abolition of the education grant and any limitation of scholarships for doctoral studies can mean that doctoral students will be expensive. You also write that you believe that externally funded scholarships should be encouraged. Then you have a small piece of wood: At the same time, we believe that the doctoral students' conditions should be improved. I've been thinking. How to interpret the reservation? Should we improve the doctoral students' situation and also for them with scholarships? Or is there a limit to this improvement work? Is it acceptable, according to the Center Party, for cost reasons to compromise doctoral students' working conditions?
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-688	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. It's a shame I only have one line to answer Thomas Strand. The issue of doctoral students is an important issue to highlight and discuss. After all, there is a problem, and as we write in our reservation, it works so, regardless of the professional category or other, that with higher costs you have to make sure to use the money wisely. What we are raising as a risk of banning external funding or the education grant, as this applies, is that there will be fewer doctoral students. It is also about international competitiveness. We need to be able to attract students here, and then the conditions can be an important part. The bill as a whole points to a few different directions, such as externally funded scholarships. We want to point out that it's a good thing in essence. It is not an end in itself either that the universities themselves should pay all doctoral students or that the state should fund it. I guess it's great that there's private investment coming. As I highlighted in my speech: Private investment in research and development in Sweden is declining, and that is why this is a good way. However, adjustments and improvements in the conditions may be needed, for example by providing good conditions if you are sick or need to be on parental leave and so on. We really need to review, improve and strengthen this. At the same time, it is important to be aware that doctoral studies are a form of education and not like any other position.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-693	Madam President, I would like The Left Party wants the scientific community to have the freedom to formulate and seek answers to its scientific questions. This is, in fact, one of the most important principles of research policy. The Academy is free. No one can touch it without consent. Both the quality and the usefulness of research depend on the fact that we tricky politicians do not control the subject area, focus, delimitation or method. Political governance must therefore only move across the board. Sometimes, however, it needs to be pumped in a little more money in some areas in order for research and society to go a little more hand in hand over dewy mountains, falling. Therefore, we in the Left Party are particularly pleased that the government has listened to us and is investing in welfare research, work life research and climate and environmental research. Our ambition is also that industrial research should be the focus. It is equally important to have a clear divorce and division of property between research and commercial interests. The collaboration that the university is obliged to have with the surrounding society, including the business community, must not lead researchers to waive the right to formulate problems, ask questions, choose methods and publish research results. Donations and mission research must not replace government funding, which is the basic prerequisite for independent research. The researcher is welcome to be an entrepreneur, but this does not mean that it is the business community that decides what to research about. The Left Party sees two major problems at the universities today that are addressed in the bill. It is, by the way, a very good proposal; we are very much in favour of it. This concerns both the question of the employment process and the distribution of research funding. The delegation for gender equality in the university believes that the image of the academy is disappointing. It is an organisation characterised by norms and values that confirms men as superiors and where there are different conditions for women's and men's qualifications and career development. There is much to do to address inequality at Swedish universities and colleges. Students choose places based on stereotypical gender roles. Professors are mostly men and are easier to advance in positions. Research funds are allocated to men's excellence centres. Of strategic research funds, 87.3 per cent are allocated to men, while women receive 12.7 per cent. The gender equality work of different universities and higher education institutions is also very different. Some workplaces are forward-looking and ambitious; others see gender equality as a non-issue. As mentioned in the bill, Statskontoret has also examined how gender equality looks in research. Their report shows that not only the strategic research funds but also the basic grants are very unequally distributed. Men are awarded 61% of the funding, but only 58% of the researchers. So it is only 3 percentage points that differ, which may sound like surface python money, but that is not the case. That is more than SEK 80 million. Much of the explanation for this is that basic funds are often used to finance salaries for professors, where men are clearly over-represented. Universities and higher education institutions must overcome the misallocation of funding. Research can no longer be a man-dominated world. In its proposal, the Government proposes a number of important measures to address serious gender equality problems, including concrete targets for the recruitment of female professors and sharp demands for an equal distribution of research funding. The Left Party, as we often reason, wants a little more. We want to tighten the requirements further. We want the government to investigate the introduction of a goal that no more than half of all government-funded research funding should go to men who do research. A researcher's work suffers if the person concerned has to worry about his or her own financial situation. At a workplace with many professions, the working environment is not good if some constantly go around worrying about their position. The Left Party wants Swedish higher education institutions and universities to offer doctoral students and researchers secure and permanent employment. We have therefore been pushing for a long time for the education allowance for doctoral students to be abolished in favour of more secure forms of employment. It is therefore gratifying that the Government's proposal now proposes that the grant be removed. This is an important step towards better job security for doctoral students, and that is the right way to go. The opportunities today are very different for different people when it comes to working in academia. Background, economic factors, gender and, not least, possible disabilities are involved. Possible external obstacles for people to work with what they want to be countered. Today, knowledge about the accessibility of researchers is too poor. The Government should therefore set up an investigation that examines the conditions for researchers with disabilities in universities and higher education institutions and what measures are needed to increase accessibility. I'm in favour of reservation 55.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-708	Madam President, I would like Linda Snecker spends a lot of time on gender equality, and I would have expected that too. But it is not only the Left Party that has a patent on this issue. Of course, we Moderates are also pushing the issue of equal conditions. I also see that in two reservations we are actually very close. This applies not least to the medical field, where we obviously note that women and men have different physical conditions and that it is therefore important that the research carried out is adapted to gender. Even I see a lot that's good. I think it is good that the government is paying attention to gender equality. I think it's good that the government pays attention to interdisciplinary science, and I think it's good that they work for open recruitment processes. When we talk about open recruitment processes, this question will still come, which I would like to ask Linda Snecker. You want to take a radical approach to gender equality and gender equality bonuses. Linda Snecker mentioned in her speech that 50 percent of the research funding should go to one or the other sex. There is a principle that the most competent or qualified researcher should be considered. At this point, the assessment must be blind, so that one actually looks at the most qualified. I wonder if Linda Snecker can develop how the Left Party sees progress in this area without, for that reason, being affected by the Non-Discrimination Act.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-711	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Betty Malmberg, for your question! It's always fun when the Moderates and the Left Party beat a blow for equality. In the run-up to a debate to be held later, you have made almost an announcement on consent law. It's very good, but you can be a little sharper. In universities and colleges, the distribution among students is such that there are an enormous number of women. There is an overweight of women. When it comes to doctoral students, it is about fifty-fifty – there are perhaps a little more women now. But higher up in the hierarchies is what in the rest of society, especially in private business. There's men, men, men. Men's skills are just a little better than women's, and when it comes to research funding they are given so incredibly much easier funds than women. Could it be that women are somehow worse than men at research? No! I am convinced that this is not the case. It is quite different social structures that see men's skills as much more important than women. Betty Malmberg and I have managed to become Members of Parliament. It's the most beautiful mission you can have. But I can promise Betty Malmberg that both she and I to get there where we are today have had to be twice as read, twice as loud and go to twice as many meetings as many of our male colleagues have done. Our skills are usually seen as a little worse. We need to address this in universities and colleges. Today's female PhD students must be able to become professors on equal terms. That is not what it looks like today. It needs to be addressed. Well, then we'll have to resort to some drastic methods. We can't back down into the future. We can't stand here in 20 years and it's still a man's world in academia.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-715	Madam President, I would like On what grounds Linda Snecker and I have been elected, I do not know. Linda Snecker's analysis must stand for herself. Of course, I think we need to go further. Diversity enriches, and that is where we need to gain more and better skills. However, I heard an analysis that I believe more in. The Association of Business and Social Sciences has found that many women, after their doctoral thesis, disappear and take on many administrative tasks, and thus they are not eligible for research and therefore cannot further merit. It would have been a more interesting analysis to study. I also note that when the Committee on Education looked at graduate schools for teachers, it turned out that many of the teachers who were given the opportunity instead of going back to the classrooms chose to stay at the higher education institutions. Then you might wonder if it was so smart. It is clear that we would like to have more and even more sharp skills in the classrooms. However, this shows that there are few PhDs on, among other things, teacher education, and therefore there has been a need for more women to remain. Since we know what dominance looks like in this area, it is important to have a boost there too. I would like to ask you one more question. Linda Snecker lives in a big city, in Norrköping, and I live in the country outside Ödeshög. I would like to raise the issue of lifelong learning. How do my residents gain access to and access to higher education versus those who are campus dependent? It is simply a question of digitalisation.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-719	Madam President, I would like Betty Malmberg and I are from Östergötland. It's the best constituency! I am convinced that the people of Ödeshög are satisfied with Linköping University. It is an incredibly good university in Sweden where I, as an event, am on leave of absence from my position as a research administrator. Of course, digitalisation needs to be improved. Betty Malmberg has mentioned this in lines to the Green Party. However, that is not what the proposal is about. It is not about digitalisation, it is about a ten-year perspective. Of course, there are many improvements that can be made in this area. Let's go back to what the bill is actually about, that is, who should research and how the research should be conducted. I agree that women with a doctoral degree do not continue within the academy. It is because the terms of employment, once you have a PhD and have passed the entire doctoral position, are very bad. There is too little help in the humanities and social sciences in moving forward, such as applying for a post-doc or lecturer position. Too little guidance is given to move forward in working life, which means that there are unemployed women with a doctoral degree seeking administrative services. They may want to remain within the university framework, within academia, because it is exciting and developing to work there, but that a PhD student should become an administrator is such an incredible waste of society when he should actually move on to a better research service or teach and use his entire knowledge capital. That is why the Left Party is constantly fighting, and will continue to do so, for good employment everywhere and especially at universities and colleges.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-723	Madam President, I would like Liberals would like to put on record at the outset that we support all our reservations, but we only ask for the approval of reservation 11, the decision on the principles of allocation of resources. Most of the things that have been debated are recognized. Thomas Strand of the Social Democrats refers to his time in opposition, and he has forgotten that his party has been in government for two and a half years. It may reflect the lack of focus and the weakening of the research policy platform that we are now debating in Parliament. We Liberals are surprised at the absence of concrete proposals for higher education. These are issues of social inverse recruitment, gender equality, complete educational environments, career systems, profiling and internationalisation. This is an incomplete document in many ways. Liberals will comment mainly on some parts of this report, Madam President, including the resource allocation system. An important point that we have driven and think is important is that it should be transparent and easy to use a model to reward scientific quality and results in the form of research breakthroughs and collaboration with the surrounding society. The Liberals have also followed Vinnova's work. They have had a long mission since 2014 to investigate how the so-called collaborative indicator should be used to distribute money. However, we are not prepared, as we have written in our motion and in our opinion in the report, to put our foot down today and say that that is exactly how it should be. Not least, we want to warn against, and are critical of, the government's being on the way to weighting the collaboration indicator just like citations and publications – other heavy quality indicators that have been around for many years in higher education and research policy. The government chooses an irresponsible path. It is not clear from the speeches by the Red-Green representatives what cooperation is. The report refers to Vinnova, but also to Vinnova's concerns, including a number of specific pilot studies. If this is to include the entire higher education institutions directly and, in addition, to a greater financial extent, I think that we should have waited for the rest of the resource allocation system instead of having this key in place now. The Liberals are concerned about this. Finally, the Social Democrats themselves said in their speech here that Sweden is losing ground. But you want to give a signal to the universities that you should invest in research, and you talk about free thought and autonomy. Unfortunately, it stops at empty talk. Several examples have been given here that the Social Democrats and the government have actively entered higher education institutions and ruled with all their hands. We have also seen, both in the research bill and in the University teacher magazine, that there is a warning that the government is saying that it should in principle go in to increase the impact of its university and research policy. It is not a way of safeguarding autonomous freedom and the so-called free thought, as we in the Liberals want. In addition, I would like to ask the Social Democrats a question. You've been in government for two and a half years. After all, the most important message and somehow the conditions and conditions for research policy are the economy. And the message to the scientific community is: There will be no increased basic funding. Until 2020, they will remain in principle at exactly the same level as today. At Thomas Strand it sounds like the big economic priority now comes from the basic grant. But you don't add an extra penny. In terms of shares, it will make no difference to the scientific community. In addition, you provide an order, a long list, on what the higher education institutions should do. It will not be covered by the funding costs and resources we believe you have announced. The Social Democrats and Thomas Strand! Why is it that, despite this attack on the bourgeois opposition, after two and a half years you do not deliver increased basic funding to research and college? I think that is worth commenting on. Direct funding is currently at 43%. The assessment that I have taken note of in terms of data is that they will remain at 43% until 2020. The second main issue, namely better allocation of resources, you are putting in an investigation that will work and return at the earliest by 2020. That is to say that Thomas Strand, who has criticised us in opposition and is now in the third year of the government, will not be able to deliver a single new proposal. I think that's serious. This does not lead to increased research. This certainly does not lead to an increase in quality. We have seen how you have used the regional universities. We've seen how you've used the teacher training. Quantity has gone before quality.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-735	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad also takes to breast tones and tonics and trumpets. I would like to say this: you were in power for eight years. The question of resource allocation systems was then investigated, but you were not able to do anything. The money that has been in force until the end of 2016, so it is only 2017 that we have the opportunity to make changes. Now we come with changes. This year, 390 million will be added to research and innovation. It rises to 2020 by just over 2.8 billion. The teaching institutions receive money mainly from 2018 onwards and will then receive 1.3 billion. It's actually not so bad to get 1.3 billion. During your period of power it was, if I do not remember completely wrong, 2.1 billion that were added to the higher education institutions in basic grants for 2009 – 2016. We have just got started, so it will be a little hollow argument that we have been sitting for two and a half years. Besides, I am not in the government, as Roger said at the beginning, but I am in the parliament and I am allowed to influence. One thing that Roger makes and which I think he brings up in a slightly strange way is collaboration. On the one hand, he says that it is important; on the other hand, he criticises us for, as well as lifting the collaboration too high and that it will take the edge of scientific quality. We say exactly the opposite: collaboration can strengthen the scientific quality of work between academia and industry.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-742	Madam President, I would like After all, it was we in the bourgeois government who began to set aside money for the pool of collaboration – 200 million to two different studies, so to speak, to pave the way if this indicator can be used more widely. You will still investigate, wait and evaluate. But instead of waiting and perhaps putting it into a larger investigation, you choose to precede, obliquely, precisely at the point of collaboration. Despite the ambiguities and questions from Vinnova, you say that it should have the same importance for distribution as, for example, citations. It is completely irresponsible and is not based on quality policy, but on quantity policy and lottery. In terms of resources, we increased resources for research and innovation by 9 billion – plus 30 percent. I ask Thomas Strand because he represents a party that holds not only the government but also the ministerial post for this area: will you be able to set aside more money than the Liberals and the Alliance did? That's my question.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-745	Madam President, I would like I'll bring up the thread I had in my last post. I didn't have time to finish it. When it comes to collaboration, the KK Foundation has done a very interesting project for a few years, where collaboration between business and higher education has been linked together with different universities. This report shows that this collaboration between academia and industry increases scientific production. So collaboration is very good. Cooperation has been investigated both in length and across, I would say, for many years. You tried to introduce it, but you gave up, and then there was no indicator. Now we are saying that we should try to introduce the indicator. It should be a pool of resources and govern the distribution of resources and resources. You should look at that issue in the investigation. Vinnova also has a basis for how to start using this when new grants are awarded. I would also like to say what I was thinking when I listened to Roger Haddad's speech. There's not much good in this bill, if I understood Roger correctly. I'm wondering if Roger Haddad really has read it a few times from start to finish and thought about what it says. I actually think it is useful and has a rich content that opens up perspectives that will strengthen both research and innovation in Sweden. What was typical of the Liberals in government was that they favored the older and large universities in Sweden. Younger universities and higher education institutions did not receive the same allocation of new research resources. I believe that about 90% of research resources go to the large, established universities. Then the four young universities and the country's colleges share the rest. Does Roger Haddad still think it is a good system that not everyone gets strengthened resources?
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-751	Madam President, I would like If so, the interface indicator shall be investigated. Thomas Strand himself says that you should try and use it. You don't even seem to be completely convinced. Why play with this important indicator in a resource allocation system? Instead, put it in the larger investigation! But you won't do it. Again, it was we who allocated the first funds to the cooperation indicator, not the Social Democrats and not Thomas Strand. When it comes to higher education institutions and universities in general, that is the big difference between us. We don't want to sneak out. You even write in the report itself that the distribution should be even. Everyone's supposed to be doing research. But you must admit yourself that it is impossible to maintain a base and so-called excellence throughout the country. Even county councils and health services discuss in these terms: We need to focus and invest in, for example, a number of hospitals in order to achieve a certain quality of research and experience. The same applies to regional colleges. Finally – and Thomas Strand does not wish to comment on this, despite all the contributions – you do not allocate more money to the basic allocation, which will mean increases beyond the 43%, but it will be the same until 2020.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-755	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by saying that we naturally agree with our reservations, but I only support alliance reservations 2 and 10. Thomas Strand was very clear about the government's goal with the new bill. The Government's new goal is for Sweden to be one of the world's leading research and innovation countries and a leading knowledge nation, where high-quality research, higher education and innovation lead to society's development and welfare and business competitiveness and respond to the societal challenges we face, both in Sweden and globally. The Government's ambition, i.e. that Sweden should be one of the leading knowledge nations, is of course very good. Sweden's future lies in being a knowledge nation, where innovations not only create a better world but help us create more and new businesses and new jobs. For this to be achieved, the whole policy needs to be linked, not only to this bill, but also to other parts of the policy – everything from research and development to how we manage our entrepreneurs in terms of taxes, demands and support to develop. Here I mean, for example, the business environment we create in Sweden: the right of deduction for research and development and for investments, labour costs, corporate taxation and labour supply. We need more companies that start, develop and stay in Sweden. Collaboration between society and business provides an increased opportunity to ensure that more new businesses are started through innovation. Sweden needs a long-term sustainable strategy for research and innovation in order to maintain a strong position in international competition. It requires clear objectives, which can be followed up, and strong leadership. We can all say that it is not best at anything by writing it in a document. Funds need to be added, targets need to be followed up, and you need to keep on making sure that you are on the right track. The government's ambition is high and should be, but leadership that steers towards the goal must include control stations and clear targets so that you can see if you are on the right track. There is a need not only for horizontal objectives but also for milestones that can be reconciled as and when. The Alliance therefore requires the introduction of milestones, which are measurable. One of the proposals for measurable targets is that Sweden's share of allocated funds from the EU's research and partnership programmes should be at least 4.2 per cent by 2020. We believe that these are quite clear objectives. You always have to be able to see if you're on the right track. An overall objective that spans quite a long time can be achieved if you do not have control stations very far away. I also believe that Sweden is dependent on the creation of new businesses and new jobs. Many of the companies created can be based on innovation. In an international comparison, however, we are very poor at commercialising innovation. Collaboration between universities, research institutes and industry should be strengthened and new joint research programmes should be established, reflecting business needs. There, the State should participate as a significant financier. Overall, the innovation system has a lot of public money and a review of stakeholders at all levels is needed to make the system easily accessible. There are examples out there that show that other countries are much better at this. I think you could learn from them and actually get help as a nation. If you meet the goals and milestones and have a follow-up of the results that means that you can make changes as you meet the goal of being one of the world's leading research and knowledge nations, it is the heart of the issue that remains, that is, how future research funds should be distributed. In the bill, the government does not present a ready-made model for the distribution of future research funds. It does not define, as several speakers have mentioned, the indicator of interaction, but it wants to give that indicator the same weight as the indicators currently in force: external grants, citations and publications. The government needs to clarify how it intends to define interaction and why this indicator should be attributed the same weight as the other indicators. Collaboration must not be at the expense of scientific and artistic quality and excellence. We believe that the distribution of funds is of the utmost importance for the results. A completed model should be preferred for all involved, if not now, at least as soon as possible. Are all these questions important to us as a nation? Yes, of course. Our future opportunity for public service is based on the fact that we can start, run and develop businesses, and what comes out of this is the future big business. Many areas need state aid, but I would like to highlight one. Swedish healthcare and care needs to benefit from research and development. Doctors and nurses should be encouraged to participate in both clinical studies and operational development. But here, too, is an area special: the geriatrics. State aid should go to the establishment of geriatric centres in three regions. The task of these centres should be to provide the conditions for clinical research, education, care and rehabilitation, as well as cooperation between municipalities, primary care and inpatient care. We must not forget that much of the research can not only give us new companies but also a better society, and that is what we all want.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-771	Madam President, I would like An important starting point for research policy, for both the government and opposition parties, is to protect free research. There is a basic consensus. It is reflected in the need to strengthen the long-term strategic planning of universities and higher education institutions through increased so-called basic funding and the need for research policies to respond to global and national societal challenges. These are challenges such as climate and environment, health, increased digitalisation and a socially and environmentally sustainable society, and, with the help of research, to achieve improved knowledge results throughout the Swedish school and education system. Research policy benefits from long-term and political consensus. Anyone who reads the report of the Committee on Education can then see that there are certainly a large number of reservations. On the other hand, on the other hand, the accurate reader can quickly conclude that, although there is a difference in individualities and nuances, there is basically agreement on the overall direction of policy. That's good. Research policy is ill-suited as an ideological battlefield for democratic parties. What is ultimately at stake is safeguarding the scientific foundation of our common society. This foundation is extremely important for the functioning of democracy. It is about trying, without political intentions, to direct or influence what is facts and what is fiction and still to rely, regardless of the values underlying the policy you wish to pursue, on the methodology of scientific knowledge collection to describe reality as truthfully as possible. It is about distinguishing between facts and opinions and distinguishing between what we actually know and what we may feel and experience at the moment. In today's debate we are increasingly talking about factual resistance and the new possibilities which technological development has once again opened up to unrefined propaganda, a propaganda in which lies are regularly used as weapons. But let us remember that this is not new for our very time. History shows us many examples where development has taken a devastating course contrary to reason and better knowledge. I sincerely hope that the sanctuary that science has found in the democracies of the world over the last 100 years is not a temporary parenthesis in human history, but rather a legacy that will be passed on step by step to success in all corners of the world, as well as that our knowledge societies do not turn into pure emotional societies. It bodes well that we here in the Swedish Parliament have a fundamental consensus over block and party boundaries both on the importance of free and independent research and on the importance of taking on society's challenges with the help of science. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has a globally high proportion of high-cited publications. The share has increased slightly in recent years, but several other countries have experienced larger increases. Furthermore, Sweden, as we have heard in the debate, has significantly increased its public funds for research and development through the two preceding research policy proposals. The purpose of this proposal is to ensure that the large public funds that are added to the research are also used in a way that will increase the quality of Swedish research, innovation and higher education in the long term. Increased so-called basic funding for our universities is important and desirable. These funds shall be provided in accordance with the principles applicable to free research and shall not be directed towards their orientation. However, the government will have expectations of the higher education institutions about what will develop and become better, and we will follow it up. These include increased gender equality in research, attractive career paths, increased mobility and open competition for services, increased research links in higher education, higher education institutions' responsibility for research evaluation systems that can be linked to a national evaluation of research, increased collaboration with the surrounding society in research and, last but not least, increased quality in research. It is therefore important that these expectations are also clearly followed up and evaluated. In addition to continuous government management, there should be national monitoring and evaluation systems. The government has great confidence in the ability of universities to take responsibility for their quality work. However, in order to achieve increased quality throughout the system, Swedish research needs to be monitored and evaluated at national level. The Government therefore proposes that UKÄ, the University Chancellor's Office, be given a new assignment. The University Chancellor's Office is currently responsible for quality assurance of higher education and for supervision and follow-up of the university's activities. In order to achieve a more coherent system, the Government intends to entrust the Authority with the task of ensuring quality assurance in research as well. A more coherent system of quality assurance, which includes the entire university's operations, contributes to an increased link between research and education, for example through a comprehensive review of the entire knowledge environments. Mr President, I would like to Some of the increased basic funding is expected to go towards funding the infrastructure of research. Both the Swedish Research Council and the universities need to make clear priorities of which initiatives are most urgent in the future. The previous initiatives on ESS and Max IV are long-term and remain. It is the Government's objective that Sweden should get a higher exchange on these extensive investments. In order to increase and promote the use of our large-scale infrastructures such as ESS, Max IV and Sci Life Lab by Swedish researchers and industry, special funding is given to the Swedish Research Council. The establishment of ESS means that Sweden is hosting one of the biggest investments in European research infrastructure. As part of developing the Swedish hostship, the Ministry of Education has appointed a coordinator to assist the Government Office in improving coordination of efforts around ESS. Mr President, I would like to It is sometimes easy for us to get caught up in discussions about the systems and the infrastructure of research. But we must not forget the individuals. It is with them that the ideas and the driving forces exist. They are our knowledge developers and bearers. A young researcher today can go many years without having a secure job. After a doctoral degree, it is often crucial that there are attractive and clear career paths for prominent young researchers to choose a continued career within the university. Otherwise, there is a risk that many, not least women, will opt out of a career in academia. It is therefore important that fixed-term employment within the university is reduced and that it becomes clearer what applies in order to qualify for an open-ended employment. At the same time, it is important that mobility among the university's teaching and research staff is increased. In order to create a clearer career structure and at the same time promote mobility, merit employment needs to be more uniform nationally regulated and advertised in open competition, nationally and, as far as possible, internationally. The Government's ambition is to review the Higher Education Ordinance so that merit employment can lead to a right to be tried for permanent employment. Although the proportion of women has been higher than the proportion of men in higher education for a long time and the proportion of women is close to half among senior lecturers, only 26 per cent of professors are women today in 2017. The Government concludes that for the 2017 – 2019 target period ambitious targets are needed to increase the proportion of women becoming professors. The Government believes that 50% of newly recruited professors should be women by 2030. In addition, all government agencies that finance research and development are tasked with integrating a gender perspective in the distribution of research funding. The importance of equal distribution of research funding should be highlighted in the existing mandates of universities on gender mainstreaming. Mr President, I would like to Malmö University is given st atus as a university from 1 January 2018. The new university will provide increased basic funding to strengthen the university's research environment and provide good conditions for development as a university. In order for Malmö University to be termed a university, the government believes that the university needs to be increased basic funding for research. This should be done on the basis of an overall assessment. Therefore, we do not see it useful to suggest that some established criteria are sufficient to qualify as a university. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to emphasise that the concept of collaboration runs like a red thread through this bill, which also explains the title of the bill. For the government, it is a high priority that universities' collaboration with the surrounding society is developed. Increased collaboration has the potential to promote quality development for both education and research, and to contribute to business growth as well as to develop the public sector and civil society. Allowing co-financing to influence the allocation of increased basic grants is one of several governance tools that the government intends to use. One guiding insight is that a small, export-dependent country like Sweden needs to have a functioning and well-developed strategic collaboration between all actors, which can contribute to Sweden's success in international competition as one of the world's leading research and innovation countries and a leading knowledge nation.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-793	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your help! I was a little taken. In principle, I and the Moderates could subscribe to most of what the Government says. Perhaps it is not precisely in terms of research that the great dividing line is between parties. But at the same time, I know that what we say in theory is one thing. It is then a question of how it is put into practice. Then we have some experience that makes me want to ask about what the Government says. One thing is about long-termism and that the government strives for a long-term perspective. We're missing a part of it. We lack the long-term strategies and believe that the strategic research areas also had this ambition. The only problem was that the government chose not to follow the work that the alliance government had put in place, including in terms of evaluations and to act in accordance with those evaluations. The Government now mentions that it is important that we follow up and that it is important that we carry out evaluations. But what is also important, the Government, is that we act accordingly or in any way at least justify why we act or do not do the same. I commented earlier on the fact that the basic appropriations are going to be infinitely more than they used to be. The Government now mentions the infrastructure of research. This is where there are many major concerns. How is a country like Sweden going to do this? I have a question. It is about prosperity and becoming a world-leading nation. How does the Government think that this bill will help us get more private companies to dare to invest in research and development in Sweden?
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-797	Mr President, I would like to Betty Malmberg! As I said, I think it is both important and correct that we have a great deal of consensus in Parliament and between the parties around research policy. It's part of the long-term. That is why we have also retained the SFOs that have passed the evaluation. I fully share the view that, on the basis of the evaluations and follow-up that we are doing, we must set tough priorities. It's not just about the government. This also applies to individual universities and research funders. Then there is the government's contribution to the basic allocation of 1.3 billion. That is not just what should be enough for what we expect of our universities and colleges. They should of course be able to use their entire funding, and, as we have heard, it has increased significantly in the previous research proposals. This is also a very extensive business, which totals SEK 67 billion. Then there is how private investment can increase again. It is quite right that they decreased during the time of the previous government. It is the R & D investment of the life science sector that has declined most. That is why we are very careful about what we think is needed to increase private investment. It is about world-leading research in certain areas. It is precisely about what both me and Thomas Strand have emphasised: strengthened collaboration. These are test and demonstration facilities where new knowledge can be tested in practice. It is about research infrastructure of the highest quality, where we can create the leading and attractive knowledge environments, and the possibility of using data, for example, that the Center Party mentioned.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-800	Mr President, I would like to Yes, that we want to be a world-leading research nation, we can all sign on. At the same time, however, we see that we are not really achieving the success that we think we are going to achieve. With the direction presented by the government, I also find it difficult to see where excellence will shine. We can say that we are losing resources. We can look to the EU and what funds we are requisitioning from Horizon 2020, for example. It is precisely in the Excellency programmes that we are losing resources. We also see that universities and colleges do not succeed. Therefore, we have a long way to go to constantly dare take the words excellence and successful research into our mouths. I would also like to comment on internationalisation. It is a passage that shines with its absence in the report. I know there's been an investigation. However, when I looked at the directives for the investigation, I saw that there is a great deal about tuition fees and that it is about registration fees. But what we need to do most of all at the moment, in order to be an international organisation that can compete in the global market, is to look at the processing times at the Migration Agency, which is inexcusably long. How will Jönköping University be able to defend that they will all of a sudden pay back tuition fees to 100 guest students because our bureaucracy is not able with the system? This is not leading either companies or research and development to an international level. I would like a comment from the Government on that.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-803	Mr President, I would like to Betty Malmberg! As I said, the government has set up an investigation into internationalisation. Proposals should be made for a comprehensive strategy – both for higher education and for research. But one should also make a comprehensive proposal about the entire admission and application process for our international students in order for Sweden to become a more attractive nation for international students also outside the EU. This is very important. I think it is important that we do it carefully this time and that we do not do the sort of hawsack that the previous government did when it came to charging third country students without any impact assessment. I can also say that the government decided very resolutely that the registration fee, for example, would be SEK 500, neither more nor less. That's what I'm saying about the autonomy discussion. It is clear that we also want to increase the share of research funding that we can get together with others in the various EU research programmes. Now we are working on the next framework programme and have already had a first hearing on this to hear how stakeholders view it. It is an objective for us to increase the proportion that Sweden takes home in these research programmes, but it is a work that must be done together with the universities. I would like to emphasise here that equality in research is an important part of increasing this. Unfortunately, we can see that fewer female researchers are applying. But, among other things, in the evaluation of applications to the ERC, it turned out that they were of significantly higher quality than their male counterparts.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-807	Mr President, I would like to I pointed out in my speech that private investment in research and development in Sweden has decreased in recent years. It is very unfortunate, given that it is precisely private investment in research and development that is the large proportion. Government resources are important, but they are actually a small part. It is important to remember in such a discussion and debate. One can look at an international comparison between 22 comparable countries. 18 other countries have increased their investment in research and development, while Sweden is one of the countries that have reduced them. It impairs our opportunities and our competitiveness. In the previous shift, the Government raised research environments, open data, attractive environments and innovation climates. These are important things. It's parts where we're close. But the willingness of companies to invest in Sweden is also affected by other parts. In its short term, this government has managed to raise taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship by over 30 billion. I would like to know what the government is prepared to do in terms of taxes and regulations to create better research and innovation environments in Sweden and to increase investment in research and development in Sweden.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-810	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Fredrik Christensson, for these questions, which are actually on the table of the Minister for Finance and are not questions for this research proposal. The issues we raise here are about how to create attractive research and knowledge environments together with the innovation efforts that are being made. This is also what we have identified as the important thing in this area, precisely in order to get more private R & D investment. It is also part of the government's target. We want this to increase, because it is the private industry that accounts for the largest share of funding for research and innovation, as Fredrik Christensson says. In Sweden we have a strong tradition of attracting private investment. As I said in my previous post, this has decreased within life science. We have set up a coordinator to see how it can increase again, and we are now seeing that investments are increasing. The same applies to clinical trials, which have declined over a long number of years but have increased again since last year and which have now stabilised at a slightly higher level. We are not satisfied with this, but if the positive trend of private R & D investment is to continue, not least in life science, it is the things that we have pointed out that are the most important. It is important to have world-leading research in some areas, to have strong collaboration and strong internationalisation, as well as important knowledge environments related to research infrastructure and to test and demonstration facilities.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-814	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the line shift. This confirms the picture I had – that changing tax rules and regulations are not a priority for the government. Despite emphasising that a holistic approach should be taken, it does not seem to be an issue that is being discussed across government boundaries at the Government Office. When I read the bill, there were some things I noticed. One of these things was the objectives, in which we in the Alliance have proposed further tightening up. What can be said is that the government has set itself the objective that we should exceed the EU's 3% of GDP target. Today, the investment in Swedish research and development is 3.3 per cent. I would like to hear the Minister comment on whether the government would be satisfied if we only reached the EU 3% limit and thus reduce our investment in research and development during the period now to come. I would also like to hear the Minister develop what she raised in her speech. Several of the alliance parties – the Center Party, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats – have put forward a proposal on regulations for university status. The Government touched on this issue in its speech and felt that no regulatory framework would be needed. Is university status planned elsewhere? And why should a regulatory framework not be developed that points out the conditions for changing so that more universities can become universities? Why is the government not prepared to proceed with this proposal?
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-819	Mr President, I would like to I think it is important to remember that an objective formulated as a percentage of GDP is a relative measure. We are experiencing strong growth in GDP if, as we are doing now, we are in favour of a prudent and responsible fiscal policy. This will reduce the proportion, even though we are not reducing investment but, on the contrary, increasing it. Fredrik Christensson made his own comparison with other countries. There are countries that today are better at attracting private research funding, but they also start from lower levels than Sweden. We must have high ambitions, and these ambitions are based on the fact that we are already high. We have pointed out on several occasions that the previous government increased public investment in research and development very strongly. However, we have not seen that this in itself has led to increased private investment. As we further increase funding for research and innovation, it is about doing smart things, so that this also leads to increased private investment. As far as university status is concerned, it was actually the previous government that changed everything and said that it is a decision that the government should make. An overall assessment shall be carried out there. Government has made an overall assessment of Malmö University. What sets us apart from previous governments – both Social Democratic and bourgeois – is that we believe that basic funding must be increased in order to become a university of excellence in research. That is why, last year, we re-prioritised and redeployed the additional basic funds, so that the new universities had to strengthen basic funds – something they had not received under the previous government.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-824	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal in the report of the Committee on Education and Training 12. As a result, I also call for the reservation to be rejected. I would also like to draw particular attention to the emphasis placed in the proposal on strengthening competitiveness and cooperation. In the Committee on Industry and Industry, we have had the opportunity to comment on the matter. Although the legislative amendments proposed in the proposal itself are outside the committee's remit, the approach proposed is worthy of consideration. Earlier in today's debate we have touched on the declining trend in Sweden in terms of innovation power that has been recognised. Although we are still a long way ahead in the world, it is clear that competition from the outside world is sharp, which triggers us to further strengthen ourselves in this area. The goal of this proposal is for Sweden to continue to be a leading knowledge nation, where high-quality research, higher education and innovation lead to development, both nationally and globally. Three follow-up sub-objectives are identified. The first is that Sweden should be an internationally attractive country for investment in research and development. Both public and private investment will eventually exceed the EU's objectives. The second objective is that there should be an overall improvement in the quality of research and that gender equality should be increased. The third objective is to stimulate collaboration and societal impact. It is in the interests of society and the Swedish people that we cooperate within the country to jointly strengthen our competitiveness. Mr President, I would like to One of the first initiatives announced by the government when it took office in 2014 was the establishment of the National Innovation Council, chaired by the Prime Minister and with representatives from academia and industry as well as public society. Five of these have been identified, and these five have become guiding elements of innovation policy. The points are about next generation travel and transport, about smart cities, about circular and bio-based economy, about life science – which, as we have heard here, needs to be highlighted in Sweden – as well as connected industry and new materials. Around these important challenges, a large part of the innovation effort revolves. Mr President, I would like to There is talk of the term Testbed Sweden, about supporting the creation of test and demo facilities for the development of products. The role of industrial research institutes is important in this work. The proposal shows that two thirds of the Swedish institution sector is currently part of the so-called Rise Group. Rise, Research Institutes of Sweden, has an important role in the work. Important roles also have – as mentioned here earlier – the Swedish Agency for Innovation Systems, Vinnova, the Swedish Energy Agency, the Swedish Agency for Growth, Almi and other supporting functions. The work highlights the importance of investments in small and medium-sized enterprises and so-called incubators. It is local, close to potential entrepreneurs, that much of the knowledge of individual projects exists. It can be mentioned that the strategic innovation areas are an effort that has been under way since 2012. This is a key tool for implementing the cooperation programmes that are already under way and are to be further stimulated. Mr President, I would like to The discussions and meetings that I myself have had with those involved in companies, universities and colleges express that this is a well-established proposal that there is a good turnout around among a number of actors. There are great expectations and a great deal of commitment. This is an important step to build on Sweden's competitiveness.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-837	Mr President, I would like to I ask for the floor and would like to refer, among other things, to the previous change of line between the Government and Fredrik Christensson. There is a danger in research and innovation policy. Even though we write the fine goals and say that the competitiveness of the business community will increase, the previous replica shows that there are drain pipes within the Government Office, wall-mounted drain pipes. You don't have a holistic view. You can't see that it's about a whole education chain, where the little pickling with us in preschool should also be involved and be able to drive companies and maybe even become entrepreneurs and driving people to really put Sweden on the map. This is unfortunate. What this is all about is a whole. Then it is also a question of fiscal policy. I know that I share an interest with Per-Per-Arne Håkansson for, among other things, the major research environments ESS and Max IV in Lund. What we can see there is that there must be a strategy for how we receive and are attractive to receive experts, external companies or successful researchers so that they will want to operate here. Then it is about access to housing, about the competence of the Swede in the Community, about getting international schools in place and that we have a tax system that may also match the expert tax that Denmark, among others, has introduced. And it's about financial conditions-- it could be airline tax. All these are parameters that will show how we manage to become attractive as a research nation. I would like to hear a little how Per-Per-Arne Håkansson views these issues.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-841	Mr President, I would like to I think it is good that Betty Malmberg takes a holistic approach to the issue, because it is precisely the whole thing that is important for us to move forward. It is also linked to the fact that we have a strong well-being, a strong social security system, a well-developed infrastructure and an opportunity to get people to grow, as Betty Malmberg described, already from preschool. It is a means of competition for Sweden. When I'm out talking to entrepreneurs, they say: The most important thing you can do for us is to invest in a good school, so that people can grow. In this respect, I am absolutely convinced that it is important that we have a holistic approach. It also requires us to be able to finance such a system. Of course, tax matters and this kind of discussion will be discussed. After all, tax issues are now the subject of future investigation work, and there is perhaps no reason to anticipate it. But that everything is connected, that it is important to have a strong welfare system and a well-functioning society, I see as important in the development work.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-844	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Per-Per-Arne Håkansson, for your answer! I am pleased that we can agree on such an important issue, because it is actually not just about long-termness when it comes to knowledge environments and research, but it is also about long-termness in order to have the courage to run a business. We must therefore ensure that it is here in Sweden that our growing companies, such as Spotify, want to grow instead of going to New York and growing with a thousand employees there. I have another question for Per-Per-Arne Håkansson, and it concerns the analysis that the government ordered from the OECD to get a picture of what to do in the research and innovation bill. What I then read about their analyses internationally is, among other things, that we need to be much better at strengthening the institution sector. They also say that it is important to become more skilled in leadership and strategic thinking, and they refer to higher education institutions and other things. They also say that it is very important that we start to prioritise and stick to the priorities we choose to make. It is a little unfortunate that the government's proposal does not touch on this in one word. If one goes out and asks, one should at least comment somewhere on what the OECD has thought of the various proposals. One may think that the answers are bad, but one should at least give a response. We have, among others, acted in action. I say that now, and Mr Rothenberg will come back to that: we are adding money to Rise, including to strengthen research institutes. I want to hear why the government doesn't.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-848	Mr President, I would like to It adds money for research and innovation. It has also been taken into account, as far as I understand, a great deal of the views expressed by the OECD. I was at a meeting that was arranged here in the Parliament House a while ago just around this area, and some of what was mentioned there is also included. This is a long-term investment of ten years, and I can see that the efforts that are being made will strengthen Swedish competitiveness and lead the way in the development and innovation work.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-850	Mr President, I would like to Knowledge provides education. Formation brings benefits and progress. Benefits and progress provide jobs and growth. Through all times, new discoveries have been beneficial to mankind, and beneficialrs of these have fundamentally changed our society several times. The fact that innovators and entrepreneurs take ideas and spread them widely in society has been crucial to the development of good welfare, growth and enterprise. Entrepreneur and innovator are therefore the crucial link between the research world and society that is required for many ideas to have an impact on our everyday lives. Swedish research and innovation can play an important role in meeting the global societal challenges. Sweden must then be internationally attractive for investment in research and development. The application of Swedish research must also be given the right conditions. What are the global challenges? A research and innovation bill may not be able to provide answers to the threat from super volcanoes or a supernova, but there are other challenges that we have to deal with in our lives. Making use of world-class research will be crucial to meet the major societal challenges of a growing population. There will thus be great needs for sustainable food security, good health and high medical skills. In about 35 - 40 years' time, the earth's population will be about 11 billion inhabitants. There are 4 billion more than today. When I was born, there were 4 billion in the world. It's a fast acceleration. These are societal challenges that we, as politicians today, must have our sights on. In order to be able to have a sustainable food supply and ensure that people, whether we are 4 billion more or not, should have good health with all the challenges involved, then reliable energy is also needed. We need efficient communications and reliable security, both globally and in the local community. If we meet these global societal challenges, we will also be able to cope with the climate and environmental challenges. Mr President, I would like to At a time when funding for research and innovation is decreasing as a proportion of GDP, it becomes even more urgent that the money is used effectively to meet today's major societal challenges. It is the environment, climate, competitiveness and safer welfare that must be the starting point for all public research and innovation activities. Many large and important knowledge-intensive companies phase out operations in Sweden or invest abroad. About 70% of the overall innovations come from outside the academic sector. It is therefore of particular concern that the government does not take these signals seriously and presents active efforts to improve the conditions for business use, such as corporate tax being at a level that is competitive in the long term and crucial for both established innovative companies as well as new and growing ones. In the early stages of business development, it is also important not to stifle innovation and entrepreneurship with tougher so-called 3:12 rules. These often hit young, smaller and start-ups hard. We also need to have better conditions in the form of attractive and relevant options. It is crucial to attract the sharpest excellence to Sweden and Swedish innovative companies. Earlier in the debate there has been talk of labour migration. Here we have a key to how a country with 10 million inhabitants can continue to be at the top of the rankings in terms of innovation power in the world. We need to have a flexible and rational way of looking at how foreign experts and talents can go to Sweden, both through favorable terms and fast handling. It is unacceptable for Sweden to miss out on world-leading engineers and researchers due to bureaucratic obstacles such as long processing times. Therefore, we would like to Moderates that a correct application should take a maximum of 30 days to deal with, so that companies do not lose their momentum or that we risk looking elsewhere. For researchers, it is also important that international schools for accompanying family members are top class and attractive. We may not always think about this because we are targeting the individual researcher or specialist. But it often comes with a family, and perhaps three or four offers have been made to establish themselves in different places in the world. Then it matters what tax conditions you have, what excellent research environment you are in and what social infrastructure there is for the family. The housing market is also important in this context. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates see the needs of strategic innovation programmes and industrial needs access to test beds. These may be crucial for research results to lead to innovations that can be commercialised. In order for Swedish research and innovation to take a step forward, it is wise to relate to the problem analysis and recommendations made by the OECD. We are concerned that the problems identified by the OECD are likely to persist as the overall approach is lacking in the government's research and innovation bill. Like the OECD, we want Sweden to develop a research and innovation policy that focuses on priorities, areas of strength and societal challenges. This requires a combined approach in which the Swedish FOI system takes greater account of international research and recommendations. Rise institutes can play a greater role in addressing these societal challenges. SMEs can also be involved in this work, but more basic funding is needed for this. We invest SEK 390 million, almost a quarter more than the government, over the period and raise funds already next year when the government invests remarkable zero SEK. Private investment in research and innovation has fallen recently. Given that 70% of the overall innovations emerge outside the academic sector, it is particularly worrying that the government does not take these signals seriously and presents active efforts to improve the nutritional conditions for use. It is important to focus on quality. Here we want to focus in particular on the incubators, which can ensure an effective flow of ideas. They need stable conditions that over time can meet the need for collaboration between academic structures and innovators operating outside the same. We want to add additional resources to the incubators, SEK 120 million. There are 40 million more than the government in this important activity over the period. Mr President, I would like to Business needs need to be steered more in order to achieve greater commercialisation. Sweden needs more open innovation close to the university, where investors' needs are better matched by the capabilities and opportunities of start-ups. One third of independent start-ups are entering incubators today, but there may be more. As I said, we Moderates want to give institutions, incubators and science parks a greater role in this innovation system. That's why we'll bet when the government doesn't. Sweden's capacity for innovation is constantly ranked high and one of the world's foremost, but this does not allow us to settle down. Sweden must use all its resources and more to meet the national and global societal challenges. Here we see that every link in the coherent chain must be strong as hardened steel, from excellent research and qualified innovation to competitive nutrition conditions that provide global open trade. That requires openness, tolerance, curiosity and ambition. Then we will meet the challenge of an open, secure world of sustainable food management, good health and reliable energy. Then the world will be better – and it will be even better with reservations 2, 10 and 67, to which I hereby call for approval.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-877	Mr President, I would like to This debate is more appropriate in a security debate, but as Valter Mutts and my motion for the establishment of a peace institute in Gotland are being dealt with, and unfortunately rejected, in the report now under debate, we are now having to take it. Why is a peace institute needed, and why on Gotland? A good rule in all contexts is to think about what problem you want to solve and then think about suitable solutions. Unfortunately, however, this does not seem to be the case too often when it comes to security policy. As soon as human security comes up, the spinal reflex of too many seems to be calling for military armaments and more weapons, regardless of the security problem to be tackled. It may be climate change or cyber threats, hacker attacks and the like. Let me take an example of all the major security problems facing the world and Sweden. The media have reported over the last few days about the lack of groundwater, which unfortunately seems to be getting worse and will get worse with climate change. Most of us in Sweden, with the exception of those on Öland and Gotland, have been favored, even spoiled with abundant supply of clean water. Many of us have taken it for granted while drought and water shortages have long plagued people in large parts of the world. But how ever could we ever get more drinking water by military means? Sometimes it becomes purely counterproductive and, I'm sorry, even stupid. Again, the example of water: How can anyone even think about allowing shooting exercises in Vättern, one of the country's most important drinking water supplies, or for that matter a giant open pit, a mine, in its immediate vicinity? But more shooting exercises are called for from some places when the world is uncertain. One explanation for the obsession with military armament is, of course, the powerful special interests that have great money to gain from military armament. Already Dwight D Eisenhower warned in his farewell speech as U.S. President in 1961 about the military industrial complex, that is, the close, symbiotic cooperation between the arms industry, the military and the political leadership, in the case of the U.S. Congress – a kind of cartel that works against the public interest with economic gain as motivation. But we elected representatives in the Riksdag have a duty to think for themselves and listen broadly. We have no excuse whatsoever to fall into any form of functional stupidity – a concept coined by researcher Mats Alvesson in Lund. It is about the absence of critical reflection, a state of unity and consensus that makes the employees of an organization avoid questioning decisions, structures and visions. We simply need much more research and dissemination on non-violence methods and peaceful conflict resolution in order to create and maintain peace and to resolve conflicts. A little further north in the Baltic Sea is a good example to be inspired by, namely the Åland Islands Peace Institute. It works both in practice and with research on peace and conflict issues in a broad sense and based on Åland's special position as a demilitarised area. The Institute focuses on autonomy, minority issues, demilitarisation and conflict management. I warmly recommend that you google and read a little more about what you do there. Another role model for a peace institute on Gotland is Albert Einstein Institution in Boston, USA, founded by Dr Gene Sharp in 1983. Dr. Sharp has been called the Clausewitz of non-violent Clausewitz. For many years he has been researching, developing and formulating non-violence methods and strategies in the fight against dictatorships, war, genocide and oppression, for peace and democracy. His books and writings have been widely distributed and have come to great benefit in freedom empires in widely differing countries. Dr. Sharp's ideas and knowledge have rightly received great attention, and interest is increasing. Only in 2015 has the organisation conducted training and consultations with groups from more than 13 countries, including Turkey, Vietnam, Burundi, Venezuela, Eritrea and Ethiopia. They have met activists as well as those in power, and in addition there are translations of writings into six new languages and extensive activity on social media. Reporting on non-violent actions is important, particularly as they are too often not addressed in the media. Dr. Sharp was rewarded for his long-standing work for peace and democracy with the Right Livelihood Award 2012 here in Parliament. It is highly recommended that you google when we are done here today. Non-violence methods have proved far more effective than violent methods in the fight for democracy and human rights. I'll give you another reading tip, the third. There are two American scientists, Erica Chenoweth and Maria J. Stephan, who has studied 323 major political uprisings between 1900 and 2006. They have concluded that those based on non-violence have been about twice as successful as those involving violence. They believe that this can be explained, among other things, by the fact that far more people are prepared to resist by non-violence methods than by resorting to violence. Of course, it is also less likely that non-violent acts will provoke violent counter-reactions from a superior apparatus of violence. A non-violent movement also builds a more stable ideological and organisational basis for future democratic development than a violent movement, which risks leading to the replacement of one oppressive regime with just another. In view of this, it seems not only morally but also economically unreasonable to invest so little in conflict resolution and peace-building by non-violence methods, while huge sums of money are allocated to military armament. This applies globally, but it also applies in Sweden. Good work is being done. We have Sipri, the Peace Diplomats, Sida and many actors who do good things in Sweden, but it is small money compared to what is invested in weapons. It's dangerous in the world, more weapons, arm up! It's not enough. It's not good enough. We can't do that. We have to think for ourselves. One way to correct this imbalance – that peace is so shamefully underfunded while the war is just as shamefully overfunded – would be to approve Valter Mutts and my motion to establish a peace institution on Gotland and thereby strengthen the Baltic Sea as a sea of peace. It would also have a great symbolic value. I hope there will be approval on another occasion. I'm not asking for your approval now, but I've delivered the message.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-900	Mr President, I would like to I just wanted to say a few things about the motion you've brought about about this, Annika Lillemet. It is well known that Campus Gotland nowadays is part of Uppsala University, and it is clear in the regulation letter that Uppsala University will have campuses on Gotland. I don't think that's an intervention in autonomy. We have this in another place too – at Dalarna University, which will also have a campus in Borlänge. However, this is an activity that will offer an academic environment that has both full education and research. Uppsala University has outstanding research in terms of peace and conflict knowledge. It is in fact perfectly possible for Uppsala University to place parts of that education in Gotland, or in a distance or other way. We also see that the academic activity has increased on Gotland after Uppsala University and Gotland became one. I just wanted to say that this is quite possible within the framework of today. However, we think it is important that it is not top-down, but something that the university itself takes the initiative if you wish to spread the knowledge you already have at Uppsala University. I can also mention that after the decision to turn Ojnareskogen on Gotland into a nature reserve, work is ongoing, which Peter Larsson leads, to see how we can strengthen Gotland in several areas. That's all I wanted to say about your motion and your motion.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-905	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the information, Minister. It's good that everyone hears this. There is very good and important work going on, as I mentioned. It is just that, of course, more is needed. There is, in fact, a security policy dimension in the whole. Where does a motion end up? Now it is in an educational report. Of course, one can object that we should not top control, but I think there is an important security policy dimension in having a peace institute – and precisely on Gotland, to strengthen the axis with Åland. It is supposed to be a very explicit institution of peace. It's about getting an interface between academia and activism. We are simply going to reinforce and do more, because it is unfortunately a fact that peace research and peaceful conflict resolution are treated very rigidly compared to what is allocated to military conflict resolution. Of course, in the worst case, when there is a shrivel of arms, things are made worse. It sounds like we agree in many ways, but as I said: More, more – and just on Gotland!
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-909	Mr President, I would like to I share the view that we need to increase our knowledge of peace and conflict research, Annika Lillemet. I see it as one of our identified societal challenges. It is about how we can build sustainable secure societies that strengthen democracy. There is, as I said, a lot of such research also going on in the field of civil defence. The Swedish Defence University does a lot but also, as I mentioned, Uppsala University. As a common thread in the research bill, the concept of collaboration goes. My call is, in fact, that it is important to conduct the dialogue with the researchers and the environments that already exist today. I certainly hope that we can be strengthened in this area. However, in this specific case I do not want to point out exactly where it should be carried out. This is an issue that Uppsala University, for example, could take the initiative on. There is an opportunity to engage and engage with them in dialogue on how best to develop these activities and to benefit more people.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-912	Mr President, I would like to As I said, it is done very well, and there are good researchers. There are also good activists. But they are too few, and often the funds are completely inadequate compared to what is unreflectedly spent on weapons and military armaments. I repeat that it would be a very big point to say from us here in Parliament that it should be a peace institute on Gotland in particular, given its strategic position and the importance it attaches to the military. Imagine how beautiful it would be if we had this peace axis through the Baltic Sea with Åland and Gotland! I think that would be a very important thing. The place is important. The activity itself is important; it can certainly be conducted anywhere. But the place has a very great symbolic significance.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-914	Mr President, I would like to I can only regret that the Education Committee is proposing to reject Annika Lillemet and my motion to establish a peace institute on Gotland. But at least we have sown some seeds of thought, which hopefully will sprout and sprout and one day bloom to a beautiful realization that another world is possible and actually also absolutely necessary. If we really, and not just rhetorically, are to achieve decisive successes in the fight against climate change – the greatest security threat of our time – mankind cannot afford to continue to throw away annually more than a thousand billion dollars in the production of the tools of death and the maintenance of a military logic from the past. The military industrial complex must gradually be transformed into a peace-industrial complex which, instead of fighting power, gives us solar power and instead of new toys for the five- and four-star part of humanity feeds on the table the billion of us who are starving. I am fully aware that this sounds utopian and perhaps even world-based in the ears of many, but what I am trying to describe is the direction of the necessary change. I am aware that profound system changes take time. But even a thousand mile walk actually begins with one step, as an old Chinese proverb points out. If our time is not to come to the time of the new wars, votes are needed that point to other ways of going than constantly raising defence appropriations and deepening NATO cooperation. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has a proud tradition of peace research and mediation and is a major contributor to the United Nations. A peace institute on Gotland, located in the middle of the Baltic Sea region where tensions are now rising, would naturally complement the peace work that our country has long been deeply involved in. The rise in tension is not to a small extent due to the continuous expansion of military training activities on both sides. Growing military spending in the East as the West is leading us ever deeper into the rearmament spiral of the classic security dilemma, where, instead of building common security, we have mutual mistrust and uncertainty. Then it is more important than ever that there are voices and actors who show how an entirely different development could be possible. We are talking about a Gotland peace institute on the east-west border and in the interface between academia and civil society. I would like to emphasise that as regards the interface between academia and civil society, I share the Government's high assessment of the efforts already made by Uppsala University on Gotland. But now it is important to involve civil society and People's Movement Sweden in the work. Those of us who have written the motion believe that a peace institute has a specific and complementary role to play in connection with academic research. It could be a fruitful arena for meetings between citizens and powers from all over the Baltic Sea region. Together with the Åland Peace Institute, which wise Finnish and Åland politicians established in 1992, this could become a axis of peace through our common inland sea. It could be a axis of peace that brings out another story about our future and shows us alternative choices, which is the key to and foundation of a democracy: there should be something to choose from. In fact, I do not think that the idea of a peace institution in the middle of the Baltic Sea is particularly controversial, but, once the idea has matured and sinks into the social debate, I think it will come true.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-923	Mr President, I would like to Hanging pins are better than drain pipe thinking in politics. It means advocating a broader approach to politics which is too narrow. Unfortunately, today I have to give examples of how a narrow view has emerged in relation to the funding of Swedish research, to the obvious detriment of research. For a long time I have been exercising to phase out Akademiska Hus in its current form in line with the thoughts of Daniel Tarschy's so-called "autonomous inquiry", which unfortunately has not been heard by any government so far. My proposal does not mean that you should sell state-owned Akademiska Hus AB, but that you should transfer the properties and premises to the universities themselves. Then what's the reason? When you look at the company's balance sheet, you find that State-owned Akademiska Hus has an employed capital of 13 per cent, compared to other companies in the real estate industry where the average is about 7 per cent. Akademiska Hus has thus almost doubled the return on equity compared to what is normal in the industry. In addition, there is a favourable monopolistic position vis-à-vis higher education institutions as landlords, which has obviously led to this over-receipt of rents from higher education institutions. With my proposal, sound management within the higher education institutions can lead to less demands for costly research proposals from the government. In the United States, for example, this relationship has proved to be both sustainable and successful, and it has made higher education institutions less dependent on the state and vice versa – for good to all. If this exercise, 2016/ 17:1101 Less state ownership of freer universities, had been dealt with in this report, it would have become apparent that the large provision made in a research bill from the state budget is largely eaten up by the state itself through the closest usury-like rents that the Ministry of Finance chooses to burden universities with through Akademiska Hus. But now the motion was not dealt with here, but in the Finance Committee's report 25 last month. It was then rejected with the following astounding motivation: a motion request for the state to phase out its ownership in Akademiska Hus is rejected on the grounds that the company contributes through its mission to the goal of strengthening Sweden as a knowledge nation. ..................................................... Furthermore, in its rejection, it refers to the fact that the Government's letter on the 2016 statement of state-owned companies states that by developing and managing properties for universities and colleges with a main focus on education and research activities, the company plays an important role in the goal of strengthening Sweden as a knowledge nation. An important basis for the company's operations is to act in a sustainable manner – yes, I thank you – and on market terms. Mr President, I would like to I wonder if there is anyone in this House, and in this debate, who has heard a more falsifying reasoning than this if it is really the research government wants to promote with the Akademiska Hus structure. It gives with one hand in a research bill to take back with the other what will benefit the research itself through a disproportionate renting in which it will be carried out. Mr President, I would like to This is nothing more than political hypocrisy in the higher school of government.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-931	Mr President, I would like to The House will now debate the CU12. It is a report on the exercise of consumer rights from general exercise time. Two things stand out a little extra. There are two announcements to the Government in connection with the demands for exercise, on the one hand, on quick loans and on the other, on the rules governing the purchase of live animals. When it comes to exercising on the purchase of live animals, alliance colleagues will be more detailed, and so I will not mention much more about it. However, I want to stay a little bit at the quick loan market and the problems that are there, because there are still problems. The Swedish Consumer Agency's reviews of the industry show shortcomings, both in terms of creditworthiness testing and marketing. There have also been serious shortcomings in consumer credit providers in trade, and this is not acceptable. Although several legislative measures have been taken in recent years, the committee believes that the government should take further measures to counter unserious credit provision in the short-term credit market. We believe that the measures should be targeted specifically at deficiencies in the creditworthiness assessment and in the promotion of credit. In order to ensure that the Swedish Consumer Agency's sanctions are maintained in order to ensure that good credit practices are maintained, we believe that the Swedish Consumer Agency's general advice on the credit assessment under the Consumer Credit Act should be reviewed. We'll make that known to the government. The study on some consumer credit has been tasked with considering measures to achieve a more responsible market for consumer credit. The study recently submitted its report. These proposals should be considered in the further preparation of the report. With regard to the investigation's proposal to introduce an interest rate cap and a cost ceiling for high-cost credits, the government should, in the Committee's view, consider the effects of such provisions. This is something that the Christian Democrats have highlighted in motions. We believe that it is important to have an interest rate cap, as the investigation has mentioned, and the shared supervisory responsibility that the Swedish Consumer Agency and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority have under the Consumer Credit Act should be evaluated. I move on to paragraph 2 and to paragraph 5, and, Mr President, I support it. It's about fake invoices. The existence of fraud involving invoices has, in recent years, become a social problem affecting many, both individuals and businesses. It is very serious that the number of invoice frauds reported is still high. Many professional organisations provide information on their websites on how to proceed if you get a scam. Business operators have also drawn up so-called 'warning lists' of companies operating with scams or the like. It is clear that we welcome this information work by the industry, but at the same time we believe that much more needs to be done in the fight against fraud. The government has recently submitted a proposal for stricter criminal law rules in relation to systematic fraud involving fraudulent invoices. However, like the majority, which is the government parties plus the Left and the Swedish Democrats, we believe it is important to consider measures alongside criminal and police areas. In February 2014, the Alliance government commissioned a special investigator to identify the scope and nature of the problems of invoice fraud. The task was to consider, taking into account the mapping exercise, the need for changes in, in particular, civil, commercial and civil procedural law. The investigation submitted in September 2015 the report Invoice fraud. We have gathered information that this report is still being prepared within the Government Office. We, the three parties, the Moderates, the Centre Party and the Christian Democrats, want the government to speed up the preparation of the report and to come back with proposals for measures against fraud invoices covering the areas I mentioned. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats have exercised against sexist advertising. Advertising that conveys a gender stereotype image is not desirable in a society that strives for greater equality and equal value for all. The committee and its majority, which now includes the Christian Democrats, believe that the industry has a great responsibility in combating gender-discriminatory advertising. We welcome the establishment of the industry-funded advertising ombudsman foundation. In addition to reviewing advertising, the Advertising Ombudsman also has an important role to play in informing and training the industry on marketing ethics issues. Furthermore, according to the majority of the committee, it is positive that the government has entered into a dialogue with stakeholders in the industry and expressed its readiness to move forward with legislation if necessary. We have come to the conclusion that the committee is currently not prepared to propose any initiative on the part of Parliament on this and other motions, but the committee expects the government to come back with legislative proposals as soon as possible. That, Mr President, could be called a case forward, a positive wording.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-944	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are going to deal with the report of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs 12, which deals with consumer law. I shall begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 9 and also for the approval of the committee's proposal in the report. Being a consumer is difficult – I think everyone can agree with this – and this report, which deals with everything from telephone and craft services to financial advice, quick loans, the purchase of live animals and more. These are therefore issues that affect consumers in everyday life in one way or another. The problem of telephone sales has been a popular topic here in Parliament in both motions as well as written questions and interpellation debates. I will stick to this subject during today's speech. I believe that all of us in this House, like the exercisers, take seriously the problems raised by telephone sales of goods and services. This has been a problem for a long time, and many have gone badly and felt deceived and violated by phone vendors. The media have confirmed this and described many unfortunate cases that sometimes involved considerable costs for the individual affected. Now we should also remember that the serious telephone vendors usually end up in the shadow of the rogue vendors. But it's not easy for the individual to know who you're actually making an agreement when you're called by a company that's supposed to be small on behalf of another company. This is particularly true in the telephone sector. The Swedish Consumer Agency has received many notifications and many questions about telephone sales to the information service Hello consumer. The Marketing Act and the Distance Contracts Act contain provisions on what applies to telephone sales and sales outside business premises. But what is stated in that legislation is not satisfactory. In October 2013, a special investigator got a government mandate to consider and assess whether consumer protection in the context of telephone sales needs to be strengthened and to propose measures if necessary. On 17 June 2015, the investigation, which adopted the name "Consumer protection in telephone sales", submitted the report "Strengthening consumer protection in telephone sales". However, the study considers that consumer problems related to telephone sales are of such a scale and nature that action is needed, precisely to strengthen consumer protection. According to the assessment of the investigation, it is important that the Swedish Consumer Agency prioritises infringements related to telephone sales and that the authority prepares procedures to meet specific difficulties that may occur in these cases. The investigation also proposes to introduce a written requirement for telephone sales to consumers. During the journey there was also an amendment to the law on 1 October 2016. It strengthened the scope of sanctions for the Consumer Ombudsman, who can now, in some cases, directly prohibit traders from continuing with a particular marketing measure. This is positive, but more needs to be done. One thing we all thought would remedy the problem of unsolicited telephone sales to private individuals was the Nix register. It was thought that would be the solution to avoid unwanted salesmen. But it turns out it doesn't help. In a letter to the Government earlier this year, the Swedish Consumer Agency has said that the protection against unwanted telephone sales that the Nix register was intended to provide has been increasingly eroded. The Swedish Consumer Agency has now terminated the industry agreement on rules for the register and makes the assessment that problems with telephone sales are of such a nature and scope that other measures are required. The Swedish Consumer Agency believes that the written confirmation that the investigation also proposes would ensure that the consumer is given better opportunity to know what to do before committing to a contract. The requirement for written confirmation would in principle eliminate the risk of consumers ending up in binding contracts that they have not intended to enter into. In addition to strengthening consumer protection to a large extent, such a regime would increase consumer confidence in the sales channel as such. Anyone who has taken part in written contracts when buying goods knows that they can be both long and hard to read. It is therefore also a responsibility of the consumer to take part in the contract so that he knows what he is signing. Mr President, I would like to There's a lot of us in here who want things to be orderly with regard to phone sales. Not everyone has the courage, so to speak, to throw the phone in the ear of someone who calls and wants to sell a product. It is important that the problem is taken seriously because it is growing. The hope is that a bill on telephone sales can be submitted to Parliament shortly. The Minister for Consumer Affairs has also expressed this in previous debates here in Parliament. The question is currently being prepared at the Department. I and others are looking forward to a proposal that we will have to consider here in Parliament shortly.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-957	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating consumer rights in this House. We will debate consumer law and policy. There are differences between the Moderates and, among other things, the Social Democrats in terms of consumer perception, which I shall return to. The committee proposes that the Riksdag should decide to address two announcements to the Government. The first concerns the need for the government to take further measures to counter unserious credit to consumers on short-term loans, and the second concerns the legal rules on the purchase of live animals. My colleague, also a super expert on horses, Mats Green will return later in the debate to why the latter issue is so important. I will focus only on the purchases of services and products that we consumers make of private companies. In one area, consumer protection in Sweden is actually rather weak in relation to what applies to purchases from private companies. It is when we as consumers buy services from the public sector. What consumer protection do we have when we buy the preschool or school service for our children? What consumer protection do we have with regard to the purchase of the health service or care for the elderly? There we are largely lacking rights in other cases. That is something we can reflect on. We can consider whether consumer protection in this area may not need to be strengthened. The aim of the Alliance government for Consumer Policy was to empower consumers and to make active and conscious choices. The objective was based on the consumer's ability to make his own choices and on the need for a regulatory framework that makes it easier for consumers to make informed and informed choices. That objective should be reinstated, Mr President. An important starting point for Moderate consumer policy is that consumers should be able to assimilate reliable information about the prices and characteristics of products, production methods, safety aspects and the impact of consumption on people, the environment and climate. By being up-to-date, the consumer has the opportunity to answer questions that arise in connection with consumption. Mr President, I would like to The current government seems to have as its goal to raise or try to direct the Swedish people to consume and act according to various political desires. Unfortunately, it is socialism in its worst form. We Moderates believe in man and man's ability to make wise decisions of his own, but there should of course be legislation that protects the consumer where necessary. As this is my first speech on consumer issues, I would like to briefly tell you how I see these issues. Me and the Moderates believe in a market economy. Customers and sellers can do business with each other without political interference or influence. Consumption is good. There are parties and movements in society that want to blame us consumers. I think that's wrong. Instead, it is good that we consume. It creates economic growth and ultimately leads to a better society when more people get jobs, and we consumers get new exciting products or services to buy. Technological development is good and often leads to less environmental impact. Credits are good and needed in an economy. It enables ordinary consumers to buy a home or a car and make other important investments. Sometimes even a small short-term loan is needed for the household to cope with unforeseen expenditure. Unfortunately, for many households too little money has been saved today to cope with such a situation. One should not rule out that it is due to high taxes in Sweden. Even telephone sales are good, if that's done the right way. For many years I have been called by the Swedish Police Sports Federation every autumn and have then bought Nordic Criminal chronicles. It's a good book, and you support the police sports federation. If they hadn't called, I wouldn't be able to buy the book. Advertising is also good. Without advertising, we would not have a working press or a wide range of television and radio channels. Advertising helps to convey information between us consumers and sellers. A good advertising with Zlatan helps Volvo to sell more cars, and in this way more jobs are created in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Every day, millions of transactions take place between sellers and buyers in Sweden. The vast majority of consumers and sellers are serious and do not require any involvement, either by the Swedish Consumer Agency, municipal consumer guidance, the National Board of Complaints, the Advertising Ombudsman or the Supreme Court. It's too well that's the way it is. Is all peace and joy? No, of course it isn't. And it is the offshoots that we in Parliament should handle through our ability to make laws. It is the government's responsibility to put forward proposals for effective legislation. When the government does not, we in Parliament have the opportunity to make announcements. In this report, the committee makes proposals for announcements in two areas, as Mr Tuve explained to us in a very good way. I said credit's good. This applies to the vast majority and in most cases. However, when it comes to unserious lending, for example via quick loans, we see moderates, together with the majority in the committee, that more action is needed from the government. We have seen deviations that need to be corrected, and we want further steps to be taken to correct deficiencies in creditworthiness testing and the part of marketing that is too aggressive. This is a worrying increase in the number of applications to the Swedish Enforcement Authority due to quick loans, and this development must be broken. However, I would like to draw Parliament's attention to the fact that the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten has unfortunately stopped delivering statistics on quick loans. The latest available statistics show a sharp increase. But then, unfortunately, the Enforcement Authority says that you can't measure it. I think that's a shame. I would like to see the Swedish Enforcement Authority report such statistics. One of the most important measures that the government can take is to ensure that supervision of the credit market is tightened, by giving Finansinspektionen responsibility for making a comprehensive control instead of what is today a shared responsibility between the Swedish Consumer Agency and Finansinspektionen. Access to credit strengthens the ability to plan their finances and adapt their consumption over time. But when people are unable to pay their debts and become over-indebted, the consequences are negative. This applies to those who are over-indebted, but also to society at large and the creditors. That more people should be able to lift themselves out of an existence as an eternal debtor – long-term debtor – is important. The government, through responsible economic and fiscal policies, can contribute to preventing people from falling into debt traps. High taxes are a contributing factor in the fact that some end up in economic exclusion. Especially the low income would benefit from reducing taxes so that disposable income increases after tax. This would also reduce the risk of financial vulnerability. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, instead, we have seen how the government has significantly increased taxes in recent years, reducing net wages and disposable income after tax. Yesterday, the Chairman of LO even went out in Svenska Dagbladet and demanded a stop to municipal tax increases. When it comes to the municipal consumer guides that exist, we Moderates think it is good that the municipalities have them themselves or in collaboration with others. Perhaps the single most important factor for an individual to be able to plan his or her finances is knowledge. Both the Swedish Enforcement Authority and the Swedish Consumer Agency are making valuable efforts to strengthen young people's knowledge of economics, and the TV programme Lyxfällan in TV3 has certainly also contributed to knowledge about economics and over-indebtedness. As everyone knows, TV3 is financed by advertising, so advertising is important in a society. For those who do not have access to municipal debt counselling, Hallå konsument is important. It is the Swedish Consumer Agency that, after a decision by the Alliance, runs the important business, and if you have access to social media, there is Hallå konsument there with quick answers to questions asked. It is an activity that can be developed even further. Mr President, I would like to The majority of the committee wants the government to produce legislation against sexist advertising. Here there is every reason to be careful, in my opinion. We as consumers are the best guarantee against bad advertising. If we do not like advertising, we simply opt out of the product or service. The financial penalty for companies advertising sexism in Sweden is very high. The system currently in place with the Advertising Ombudsman works satisfactorily and in many cases can lead to faster and more stringent measures than could be the case with legislation. One reason for this is that the Advertising Ombudsman can take decisions that lead to a more desirable outcome than a court could do. Mr President, I would like to To conclude: I think I see a trend from the government that they want to control both consumption patterns and behaviour of the Swedish people via political influence from government agencies. One example is the task that the Swedish Consumer Agency has been given to work for a more environmentally smart consumption. A fashion word the consumer minister uses is nudge. It is a word that most Swedes outside Södermalm have never heard of. I think that is a worrying development. I think that we, as consumers, should be allowed to govern our own lives without getting touch sticks over one and the other. Enlightenment is one thing, but trying to influence is another thing. I hope that Parliament's majority will be vigilant about measures taken by the government aimed at having an impact and that together we will try to stop it. Of course, we support all the moderate reservations in the report and our announcements, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 5.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-988	Mr President, I would like to What is the similarity between a bicycle and a horse? Not much would most people answer, but still the same rules apply if you buy a bicycle in a shop as it is when you buy a horse from a farmer. Of course, there is a big difference between buying a living horse and buying a dead thing, like a car or bicycle. However, EU bureaucrats find it difficult to understand the differences between a large industrial company selling a product produced for the European market and a horse switching owners from one farm to another. The Consumer Sales Law with its rules on flawless goods and the right to compensation is simply not adapted for Swedish conditions where a live animal changes owners. If the seller of the horse happens to be an entrepreneur and the horse is part of the business, which is common since horses are also used as grazing animals in the Swedish landscape, the buyer receives very strong protection while the seller in practice only receives obligations and no rights. For example, the Consumer Sales Law says that an error that appears within six months is assumed to have been there from the beginning unless the company can prove that the error is not original. How do you prove a horse was flawless when it was sold? Even if the animal is vetted, it is of course not a 100% guarantee that there are no so-called errors. Even obvious handling errors will be difficult for a small company to prove that they have occurred. Then, suddenly, the seller may face claims that are much higher than the selling price of the horse. If an animal needs treatment in an animal hospital, this can quickly become large amounts and the previous owner cannot possibly protect himself from these costs. This hampers the market and prevents many small businesses in rural areas from selling to private individuals for fear of what it can lead to. It is also impossible to get out of these rules. Even if one were to try by signing a contract in which one sells the horse as it stands, this agreement does not apply. The Swedish Democrats are aware that the sale of live animals cannot be dealt with as the sale of other goods and therefore it is a problem that needs to be resolved. That is why we support an announcement to the government that the Consumer Sales Law in this area should be more appropriate. Mr President, I would like to Fraud and fraud have become a major social problem affecting both individuals and businesses. Unserious entrepreneurship is a grateful market for criminals, not least because there is hardly any punishment to talk about in this area, at least not in practice when very few people are prosecuted. The Swedish Democrats have proposed a warning list of rogue companies, while the other parties are content with the warning lists available from private actors. However, we see a need for a list that has a clear regulatory framework and that our authorities can have as a basis for refusing, for example, rogue companies to use the Swedish Enforcement Authority for recovery. Today, rogue companies are turning to the Swedish Enforcement Authority to recover debts that are most likely not made in a fair way, but where the person who is to pay does not object to the debt. If there was a serious warning list with clear criteria for what was in force, it could be the basis for the Swedish Enforcement Authority refusing recovery. We do not say which authority should handle the list but it should be more prioritised and more interesting from a general perspective than running a page such as moneyfromsweden.se that the Swedish Consumer Agency operates. If you compare a page that tells you about cheap ways to send money abroad with a page that helps people know which companies are directly rogue, then at least I think that information about rogue companies is more important. Then, of course, rogue companies should not be allowed to continue their activities undisturbed, but when they are discovered and can be identified, they should be prosecuted as soon as possible. However, this may sometimes take time and, in addition, since companies operating in other countries are often involved, the side can act as a help until the companies have had to close down their activities. Madam President, I would like While I am in unserious business, I would also like to raise the issue of child marketing, which of course should be tightened as much as possible. Children are often easier to influence than adults, and anyone who has children knows how difficult it can be to resist when a child wants something that an adult may not consider appropriate. Unfortunately, there are advertisements that glorify unhealthy food and drink and that directly target children. Here it is important that society stands up for the parents' right to decide over their children and restricts companies' ability to target unhealthy advertising on children. Unfortunately, there is a lot of money to be gained by making children want unhealthy food and drink, and it is not easy to determine where the limit is when advertising turns to adults and when it turns to children. However, it is our opinion that the government should do what it can to prevent, as far as possible, the advertising of unhealthy food and drink for children. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say that we all agree that more regulation is needed in the area of quick loans and small credits. I look forward to hearing the government proposal in this area. The Swedish Democrats support all their reservations, but claim for time winning approval only for reservation 6 Blu Bills, which is found in item 2.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1006	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to warn you that I am going to go over my speaking time considerably. Today's motion report on consumer law contains very interesting and many happy notes. In addition, I must comment on the speech by the representative of the Moderates. First of all, I welcome the fact that the committee supports a stronger regulation of quick loans. This is an issue that I know is very close to the heart of the Minister for the Environment's Minister for Financial Markets Per Bolund. I am convinced that the government will take further action here. It is important to further prevent and make more difficult for rogue operators who are ravaging and lurking consumers into debt traps. In addition, they enable those who want to finance criminal activities or even a terrorist journey to IS to absorb large sums of money in just a few minutes. Madam President, I would like What I am most pleased about in the report, however, is that the committee in its explanatory statement takes a stand in favour of legislation against sexist advertising, which is something that I and several other Members have exercised about. Still occurs in the public space closest to pornographic pictures of vans driving through Stockholm in snail speed. Bus cures are wallpapered with large pictures of undressed and objectified women, gender stereotype depictions and retouched models that create narrowness and sick beauty ideals. That is why we need to act. The images of men and women that we humans meet form our self-image and our ideals. At a time when there is great awareness of the importance of working towards destructive masculinity standards for a culture of consent and respect for the human dignity of every human being, it is important that we also discuss what messages are sent out into public space through advertising. We know that mental illness, especially among young women, is developing in an alarming direction. Then it is important to consider the ideals of beauty that today's lack of legislation risks contributing to. As early as 1979, the UN Convention on Women was adopted. It is a convention that aims to eliminate all forms of discrimination against women, and it is usually abbreviated Cedaw. Article 5 requires States Parties to take all appropriate measures to modify the social and cultural behaviour of men and women in order to eliminate prejudices and practices based on the notion of inferiority of one sex or on rigid roles of men and women. The Women's Convention Review Committee, which is the independent UN body responsible for examining compliance with the Convention, expressed concern in its last review in March 2016 that the media and the advertising sector continue to communicate stereotypical and sexualised images of women. It also stated that the issue was not adequately addressed through self-regulation. I agree with the idea that self-regulation is good, but it is not enough. The Committee recommends that Sweden cooperate with stakeholders and use other innovative measures, including by laying down stricter rules where necessary, to promote a positive and non-stereotype depiction of women in the media and advertising. The advertising ombudsman is doing a very good job. Its ruling affects serious companies convicted of, for example, sexist advertising. At the same time, there are companies that do not care at all that they are being criticized by the Advertising Ombudsman. This means that we are not able to raise the minimum level by means of existing self-regulation. A recent report from the Swedish Women's Lobby states that Sweden is also the only country in the Nordic countries that has no legislation against gender-discriminatory advertising. We have many other positive things, with a committed civil society and well-functioning self-regulation. But both parts are needed. I think, Madam President, that we should look at the Icelandic example. What has it looked like in Sweden? In 2006, the Social Democratic Government, supported by the Green Party and the Left Party, set up an investigation with the aim of removing gender-discriminatory advertising from the public sphere. The investigation had to consider, inter alia, whether legislation was needed and whether such legislation was an appropriate and possible way forward. The answers to these questions were yes. After the change of government, however, the People's Party Minister Nyamko Sabuni decided in 2008 not to even send the investigation out for a referral. It was very unfortunate, I think. We would have needed to hear a number of comments on the investigation, and we would have needed legislation. However, I am pleased that I was told from the speaker's seat in this House only last autumn that the current government is prepared to take legislative action if the talks with the industry do not prove sufficient. Madam President, I would like Let me now comment on some of what constitutes the Moderates' view of consumer power. Among other things, it was claimed in the past that consumers can indeed buy themselves away from sex-discriminatory advertising. I wonder if it is the children who, with their allowance, are going to buy away the advertising that sexizes women in underwear. This view of consumer power is worrying. It is true that consumers, by voting with their wallets, can certainly influence the development of society. However, not all social problems can be solved by the choice of those who can afford to buy themselves out of these problems. First of all, it is a fundamental problem that only those who have a large enough wallet can exercise this power. Moreover, there are many social problems, not least with regard to the environment, where individual decisions are never able to take us far enough. With my wallet I can't buy myself to a high-speed train between Stockholm and Gothenburg. These are decisions that we must take together. Madam President, I would like Try to buy yourself away from the climate impact of aviation! The person who, with his children, wants to go on holiday to Spain and will buy himself away from the flight needs to pay for several hotel nights, because the night train infrastructure and communications through Europe are so bad that it is not possible to get there without spending the night on the road. It takes a rather thick wallet to prioritise an option that is more expensive, even if it is better for the environment. That is why this government with economic instruments ensures that the environmental cost of various goods, means of transport and so on is included in the price tag. Even if consumers have power, they should not have to solve all problems with the private economy. Society also has a huge responsibility. On the other hand, I think it is positive that society encourages and informs about what is sustainable consumption. I know that very many people are happy to choose sustainable when possible economically and practically. We shall encourage and facilitate this. But that cannot be our only solution to major societal problems. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to support our reservation and otherwise support the proposal contained in the report.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1026	Madam President, I would like It wasn't easy to keep up with what you were trying to say, Annika Hirvonen Falk, but I'll try to interpret what you said. I understand that you said that it is expensive to go to Spain and that you therefore want to introduce a flight tax that makes it even more expensive. Madam President, I would like I find it unfortunate that the Green Party is distrusting consumer power. On the contrary, I believe that we as individuals in society have a huge impact on companies if we do not support their actions. With regard, for example, to sexist advertising, the explanation and reason why we Moderates are soundly sceptical about legislation is that we think that the current system works well. It may even be that legislation will make it more difficult to combat sexist advertising, which everyone thinks should be done. I'm new to the committee, so I'm not familiar with the details. However, when I was trying to read in the run-up to this debate, I could, for example, see that there has been advertising that has been acquitted in Norway, where such legislation is in place, while the Swedish Advertising Ombudsman has convicted it. For me it is a very strong indication and signal that today's system works better. We are against sexist advertising. There we are in complete agreement, Annika Hirvonen Falk. That is not what the conflict is about. The conflict is more about how we can combat it as effectively as possible. There, then, it may be that legislation is worse. Then you said it would cost money to counteract this commercial. I don't really understand what you mean. As I understand it, it is free to report what you want to the Advertising Ombudsman under the current system. But I may have misinformation. That is quite right – I believe in consumer power. You got it right. It's the most effective way to fight things you're against.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1032	Madam President, I would like What I reacted to – if it did not appear – was that in his speech Lars Beckman indicated buying away from sexist advertising. I believe that this is not a problem that can be solved only with consumer choice of products. Take, for example, the sexualization of children in advertising! There are commercials where four-year-olds pose in sexually suggestive poses in bikinis. After all, this is not something that children who see advertising can influence with their allowance, but it clearly requires us to take more action here. Self-regulation has not been enough. Madam President, I would like Like Lars Beckman, I believe in consumer power. But I do not think that consumer power solves all the problems. Lars Beckman, however, said in his speech that he does not think that we should influence consumers to consume sustainably. I can't get this together. If it is the case that we believe that we are going to solve environmental problems through our choices as consumers, then we must reasonably think that this is a positive thing. Why, then, should we not encourage that behavior? Why, then, should we not inform and use different ways that make more consumers choose sustainable? Madam President, I would like As far as the trip to Spain is concerned, I can say that we in the Green Party and the Greens in Europe want to finance and expand a well-functioning railway network. It does not have to be the case that a solar holiday must involve climate degradation and emissions from aviation.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1035	Madam President, I would like This means that a Swedish airline tax will finance the railway network in Spain. That's new information for me. We'll see how it's done. Madam President, I would like I don't understand how Annika Hirvonen Falk brings my speeches together with a four-year-old in sexist advertising. On the contrary, we fully agree that sexist advertising and sexist advertising are unacceptable. I spoke in my main speech that we believe that legislation is worse. I then gave in my first reply an example of advertising being acquitted in Norway but convicted in Sweden by the Advertising Ombudsman. You just have to explain how you mean, Annika Hirvonen Falk. On the other hand, it is clear that the socialist government with the Green Party is giving assignments to state authorities to try to influence us Swedes. I think there is a big difference in principle between the Green Party as a party or you as an individual standing on the streets and squares trying to convince people in your direction and giving state authorities the task of influencing the Swedish people and spending valuable tax money to get a desirable political direction. What if parties with whom we absolutely do not share common values will govern and give state authorities the task of forming opinions in a social direction that we do not want at all! I believe that we should be extremely careful to end up in situations where we give the state the task of opinion-forming to desirable values. Then it may be that the aim may be good in some cases, but I think we should be soundly sceptical about those social systems and safeguard our democracy in Sweden, Madam President.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1038	Madam President, I would like A Swedish airline tax is not intended to finance railway in Spain. It is intended to finance the possibility for more one-man companies to hire one person in their company. It's true green tax exchange. On the other hand, we want to finance rail in Europe by redeploying the fairly large sums of money that the EU is spending today supporting fossil-fuelled transport on motorways, for example, and instead investing more in the rail network, which can connect the European countries. It is actually a matter alongside the consumer debate, but my point is that it is not an issue that can be resolved by consumers buying a stretch of rail at a time. Political decisions are needed. Madam President, I would like Unlike Lars Beckman, I do not see the alarming risk that we now have a government that is trying to influence more sustainable consumption. The alternative is, of course, not very positive in itself, namely a moderate government. The former moderate-led government forbade the authorities to inform, for example, about organic food. That's what it looked like earlier. Instead, we are now ensuring that the authorities are allowed to provide consumers with information that we both agree that many consumers want, namely knowledge of how they can contribute to a sustainable world by means of their consumer power. That is something that is only positive.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1041	Madam President, I would like The Centre Party has three reservations of its own in the report, namely on telephone sales, on eco-labelling of cosmetic products and on compensation for interruptions in telephony and broadband. I shall be in favour of the latter and, for time to come, refrain from seeking the approval of the two others. One of the two announcements we have is about the sale of animals and originates from one of the Center Party's motions. I fully support the report, at least in that part. Then there is a joint reservation with the Moderates and Christian Democrats on fake invoices, reservation 5, to which I also call for approval. There is also a common reservation with the Liberals and the Moderates on gender-discriminatory advertising. It's about the explanatory statement. Of course, I support that reservation without calling for its approval. Madam President, I would like This is not the first time we have discussed rogue telephone sales in this House. For many, telephone sales are a way to avoid having to go to a store or find a telephone number if you need to order something quickly. When the seller contacts you directly, you can hang up the phone, take up the seller's time for a very long time before you politely but firmly decline, as I do sometimes, or let you be persuaded to buy the product or service offered. Not everyone feels that way, unfortunately. And the industry has no way of distinguishing between which of these categories of potential customers you are when they call you back. New methods of selling and buying are constantly evolving, and the law cannot always be in line with it. Nor can it only be adapted to the way customers experience it, but it must also be able to allow industries to grow and develop new ways of reaching their customers with new services. Telephone sales as conducted by many today are still perceived as unserious and intrusive. That is why we in the Center Party want to prevent the government by describing what we think should be required for a purchase to be approved, namely that the buyer, the customer in this case, should be able to formulate his answer in the affirmative or in the negative and at the same time identify himself. For private individuals, there is protection and a possibility to block incoming calls from sellers, but it is lacking for entrepreneurs. The Center Party believes that the protection of entrepreneurs is insufficient and that among them it also includes those who own a small piece of land with more or less active agriculture or forestry. It is perhaps older people who cannot clear up what is meant by the questions asked by the seller. It is for their sake, Madam President, that we continue to push the issue. In the reservation text we have described the situation of entrepreneurs who carry out an activity and who are not expected to have the time, skills or resources to enter and tear up contracts that have been concluded unintentionally and on the other hand for older people find it difficult to relate to telephone sellers. Our point, Madam President, is that it can often be one and the same person we are talking about. It would be wrong to call all telephone sales unserious and even less illegal. However, sending an invoice on a product or service that has never been ordered is. It's a growing problem. It is therefore urgent that the government now accelerate the preparation process so that it can be further developed. It is here that we have a common reservation with the Moderates and the Christian Democrats that I have called for approval of. The most unexpected and gratifying position we will be making here tomorrow when we vote is that a majority has decided to join the Center Party's line and exempt live animals from today's provisions of the Consumer Sales Law for six months' right of withdrawal. It's no surprise to many here that there's a big difference between a horse, a dog, a toaster, a car, or a garment. Everyone should understand that, at the time of purchase and at the time thereafter, it is not possible to deduce a defect or damage to the animal to the seller in the same way as can be done with a consumer product purchased in stores. I know that Parliament's decision in this case will be welcomed by the horse industry but also by the Swedish Kennel Club. It is both about Swedish legislation and about how we can influence different EU directives. It goes without saying that it is unreasonable for a consumer who has been responsible for the care and health of an animal for six months to be able to complain about the purchase so far afterwards. I am sure that you in the government parties and also in the support party – if you had studied properly – could have avoided the embarrassment of your reservation on this issue. However, since this is not the case, it would be interesting to hear your argument in later posts. What is the similarity between a horse and a toaster in the sense of the Consumer Sales Law? Every tenth horse in the country creates a job. That means 28,000 full-time jobs. It is an industry that is growing and a green industry that also helps to promote farming and keeps land open. Association with animals makes people feel better. The Center Party is responsive to the needs of the industry. We are particularly pleased that we have finally achieved a breakthrough in which the safety of the person who is to sell an animal that is at that time perfectly healthy but by various circumstances over which the person who has sold cannot control risks being challenged by a buyer who has suddenly repented or who, through negligence and neglect in six months, has managed to impair the animal's health. I move to the area of telephony, where there is also a reservation from the Center Party. The request we have today concerns compensation for interruptions or disruptions in telephony and broadband services. Information technology over broadband networks and telecommunications is considered to be a fifth mode of transport. It is an infrastructure that is needed to develop the whole country and make Sweden – all of Sweden! - Competitive. When there is a lack of reliability, this reduces the opportunities to run a business, to live, work and develop rural well-being. Interruption can take place anywhere and is at all nothing that only affects people in rural areas. On the other hand, there is a greater sensitivity, as data communication is often the only mode of transport that is not affected by distance but, on the contrary, often bridges large distances and makes it possible to operate and interact with markets in the rest of the world despite a large distance. Madam President, I would like It is important for market participants in telephony and broadband to assume their responsibilities also financially in the event of disruptions and disruptions. In the worst case, losing your connection as an entrepreneur means a loss of income, almost regardless of what you do or what you deliver for services. So we have become dependent, and so much more efficient and safer communication we get with reliable deliveries to our customers via broadband networks and telephony. The Center Party believes that it must be legislated to introduce an interruption compensation from broadband and telephony providers to customers. It is not to make up for damage and loss of income, because it is not possible. However, there must be a financial incentive for suppliers for security of supply and for them not to systematically disperse certain customers for the benefit of others. Today, I am in favour of reservation 11. Every day, women use on average 12 different cosmetic products in their bathroom cabinets. They contain a total of 168 different chemicals, on average, I've been told. It's twice as much as most men expose themselves to. Here we are talking about products that aim to be active in the skin. The skin, as you may know, is man's largest organ. It is extremely important that we can rely on the labelling systems that exist in Europe and are used in Sweden. There are clear shortcomings in both marketing and legislation, while interest in the issue is perceived as weak from policy and, above all, from the industry. A product with 0.1% content derived from organic products can today be marketed as organic despite the fact that the vast majority of its content is not. It is totally unacceptable and a flagrant example of what is commonly called greenwashing, to make something seem environmentally friendly, although it is exactly the opposite. This is not the case with organic food. There is already an established labelling system that is perceived and reliable. The Center Party wants to see a common European eco-label system for organic and natural cosmetics that is fair and reasonable, in the way that we have for other mixed-content products with which we come in direct contact. Madam President, I would like With this, I have presented a local consumer policy that is both green and enterprising.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1062	Madam President, I would like . Quick loan in two minutes. Search now and get the money right away. "Yes, that's what it might sound like in the advertising of the short - loan companies. I can see why it may seem attractive to some people. But what many see as a solution to an acute problem can instead become a gateway into deeper indebtedness. Those taking short-term loans are usually families with weak finances and lower repayment capacity, which can ultimately lead to the family falling into a debt trap and risk falling into over-indebtedness. Over-indebtedness is today a clear class issue. We see how low-income, single, low- and medium-skilled, sick, unemployed and rent-earners are clearly over-represented among the long-term over-indebted. The cynical thing is that many quick loan companies have as a business method to target consumers with a weak economy by offering quick loans at near usury-like rates, loans that are therefore extremely expensive. Nor is it unusual that those who have taken a quick loan have to take a new quick loan to pay for the old one, and so they are stuck in a vicious circle. It is a good thing that legislation is tightened up on short-term loans and that companies must now have permission from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority to operate. I also welcome the fact that the Consumer Ombudsman has been given more effective means of sanction when traders breach marketing and contract terms and conditions in connection with quick loans. However, this is not enough, but more needs to be done to protect the most vulnerable consumers. Most of all, we in the Left Party want to get the quick loans out of the market altogether; we did well without quick loans before 2006. However, we can at least start by implementing the proposals proposed by the study on, among other things, a cap on interest rates for short-term loans. The cost of short-term loans is skyrocketing compared to other credits. Some form of interest cap exists today in more than half of the EU countries and has proven to be effective. I am therefore pleased that the committee has agreed on an announcement saying that we want further measures to counter unserious credit to consumers in the fast loan market. I would also like to take this opportunity to comment on what the Moderate Member, Lars Beckman, said in his speech on the causes of over-indebtedness. He felt that it would be the high taxes that were one of the reasons. I don't agree with that at all. This may possibly be a partial cause, but the main reason is something else, such as the deteriorations carried out in the unemployment fund and the health insurance of the bourgeois government, which have led to people being in debt. Madam President, I would like Another major consumer problem is the growing dissatisfaction with telephone sales. I think we all recognize the irritation that can occur when we get a persistent telephone salesman on the phone that can be difficult to resist. The study on consumer protection in telephone sales shows that there are consumer groups that are particularly vulnerable to telephone sales, including some older people, people who do not know the Swedish language so well and people with different disabilities. The Swedish Consumer Agency, municipal consumer advisors and Sweden's Consumers confirm that problems associated with telephone sales are increasing. It is about everything from strong irritation at being disturbed to pure fraud. However, I would like to emphasise that there are obviously both serious and responsible telephone vendors. One problem is that many consumers find it difficult to understand the terms of contracts concluded by telephone. This may be due to shortcomings in the information provided by the seller and the fact that the contract is often concluded very quickly. The investigation therefore proposes that we introduce a written requirement for telephone sales. I share the conclusion of the investigation. In my opinion, however, a written requirement should apply to both consumers and smaller companies. A written agreement would also be good for all the serious telephone sellers on the market. It is gratifying that the Minister for Finance and Consumer Affairs has declared that he wants to see a written requirement. I therefore believe that the government should return to Parliament as soon as possible with a proposal that a contract should be confirmed in writing by the buyer at all telephone sales in order to be binding. I also believe that the Nix register needs to be reviewed because it has so great shortcomings today that it does not provide sufficient protection for consumers. Madam President, I would like We consumers are met with a large amount of daily advertising: in newspapers, in the subway, on TV and internet, in cinema and around the community. The purpose of advertising is, of course, primarily to make us consume various goods. But the commercials are doing something more to us. It affects our awareness of issues that are not directly related to the advertised goods and services. Unfortunately, we still see how advertising creates and maintains stereotypical ideal images of men and women. The images are almost without exception retouched, which leads to them fortifying a beauty ideal that does not exist in real life, something that can make young girls, above all, feel mentally ill. Beauty ideals and objectification in advertising can create a distorted body image and give a lower self-confidence. Advertising also creates and upholds the heterosexual norm. Nor is it unusual for women and men to be reduced to sex objects in advertising. Bodies are used to draw attention to a service or a commodity that has nothing directly to do with the body. Gender-discriminatory advertising affects the formation of people's identity and discourages society's efforts to achieve gender equality. Madam President, I would like Although the committee believes that the industry has a great responsibility in combating gender-discriminatory advertising and that we welcome the creation of the industry-funded advertising ombudsman foundation, I am pleased that the majority of the committee believes that the government should return with a legislative proposal as soon as possible, as already exists in the other Nordic countries. Madam President, I would like It is becoming increasingly difficult to be a consumer today. Technically advanced products, more complex financial services and a global market offer many opportunities, but also pose major challenges for consumers. Marketing is also often very aggressive and often addresses groups of consumers who are already economically vulnerable. Then it is particularly important that there is a functioning consumer guidance service around the country's municipalities. More consumers than ever before need support and help, says the Swedish Consumer Agency, given, among other things, that the number of new arrivals and older people is increasing. These are groups that often find it difficult to orient themselves in an increasingly complex consumer market. At the same time, the Swedish Consumer Agency's statistics show that municipalities are cutting down on consumer guidance to a record low level. This is an equation that simply does not go together. The Swedish Consumer Agency also shows in its latest report from 2016 that eleven municipalities have lost their consumer guidance over the past year. This means that 780 000 Swedes are now completely lacking municipal consumer guidance. The Swedish Consumer Agency also shows in its latest report that municipal support is down to 107 annual labour forces in Sweden. Ten years ago, a total of 151 annual labour force in municipalities worked with consumer guidance. The Swedish Consumer Agency notes that this is a record low level, which means that there is cause for great concern. Unfortunately, there are indications that more municipalities have taken the creation of Hallå konsument as a pretext for closing down local consumer guidance, which of course was not the idea. National road management can never replace the support that municipal consumer guidance can provide through its direct support to consumers. The local guide has knowledge of the local situation, provides specialised support in a number of areas and is familiar with the local market. They can sit down with the consumer in peace and quiet and provide personal guidance. Such personal support cannot be provided elsewhere. Against this background, I believe that it is absolutely necessary to legislate to impose an obligation on the municipalities of the country to provide good consumer guidance. In this way, consumers in Sweden can be guaranteed equal consumer support throughout the country. There is currently an obligation for municipalities to provide debt and budget advice. It should therefore be reasonable to also legislate on mandatory municipal consumer guidance. Such an action would benefit society as a whole in the long run. With this in mind, I would like to endorse reservations 9 and 15 as well as the other proposals contained in the report.
i-SWfhMWA5sVYfTMbDf1UNUM	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Johnsson Fornarve, for the opportunity to reply! It is a rather interesting statement made by the Left Party in the speaker's chair, namely that taxes would not affect the net disposable income. It's actually quite astounding. I would like to ask Lotta Johnsson Fornarve if she has read yesterday's interview with LO's President and if she shares his view that municipalities should make a cap on municipal taxes. The LO President is very clear, unlike the Left Party, that the level of taxes affects people's ability to live their own lives. Then I think LO is wrong in some parts. But the basic principle is interesting, namely that LO is raging against the shock-raised taxes. I still have to ask the Left Party a few questions. Should a single person with a child afford to refuel his car? Is it important to increase the tax on petrol in shock? Is it important to increase vehicle tax shock? Is it important for the ability to go on holiday if you introduce an expensive flight tax? Does the Left Party at all see a connection to a family's opportunity to go on holiday if you shock taxes? For me as a moderate, it is very important that people come to work, that they have the right to their own livelihood, that they have a worthy disposable income after tax that allows them to afford to live their own lives. There there is obviously a difference between the Left Party and the Moderates. Does the Left Party share the LO President's concern about high municipal taxes?
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1091	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Lars Beckman! Of course, we do not want to shock-raise any taxes. It's not a question of that. It is about getting a fairer tax system, that is, those who earn the most, the greatest income, should contribute more to the development of society. That is exactly what happened when the bourgeois government was in power, that is, you reduced the taxes for those who already earn the best. In this way, the deeper divisions in society and a larger group of people became increasingly difficult. True, the causes of over-indebtedness are not primarily due to high taxes. The main reason for over-indebtedness is personal tragedies such as unemployment, sickness, divorce and similar causes. The group that is most indebted are people on low incomes, with less education and who are more ill and unemployed and so on. It is that group of people who are most vulnerable. If, on the other hand, we raise taxes for those who earn the most, we would have a fairer society where the situation of the most economically vulnerable groups could be improved.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1095	Madam President, I would like I would just like to inform the Left Party that there is no progressive petrol tax in Sweden. Your shock increase in petrol tax and fuel tax, which makes a single parent less able to refuel his car, naturally affects it with the lowest income. Lotta Johnsson Fornarve did not answer the question, but I would be happy to ask it again. Does the Left Party share the concerns expressed by the LO Chairman in Svenska Dagbladet yesterday? LO is now raging over the fact that taxes have been raised too much. LO – The Landsorganisationen – is failing to raise taxes too much. LO says that there must be a ceiling for municipal tax in Sweden. Of course, the reasons for LO are right. We cannot take away too much disposable income from people. Om I have a low income and this dark red government shocks taxes so to the mild degree that LO goes out and demands municipal tax suspension, it is obvious that it affects the risk for me to become over-indebted. It affects the risk that the money will not last until the end of the month. If you make it about $1,000 a month to refuel, it is clear that it affects my economy if I have a low salary. It is a wrong, harmful and terrible policy, and all tax increases always hit it with the lowest income.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1099	Madam President, I would like Nor do I think it is a good idea to increase municipal taxes too much. The reason why municipal taxes are raised so much is that municipalities have had to do so as a result of the Alliance having cut down on welfare. You reduced taxes for those who earn a lot during your time in government so that the municipalities are now on their knees, and they have had to raise taxes locally to cope with welfare. Now we're trying to restore the imbalance. The shock of taxes is about those who earn 38,000 and more. They're getting a small tax increase. It's hair-traveling that you're so worried about them. We need to bring taxes into society in order to take important measures, to invest in welfare, to invest in the development of public transport and other measures.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1102	Madam President, I would like Like Lars Beckman, I must join in thanking Lotta Johnsson, who has given me the opportunity to raise a discussion that is perhaps a little broader than consumer policy. I apologise to Members who have not yet given their speeches. We have talked about unserious telephone sales, fake invoices, gender-discriminatory advertising that adversely affects consumers, stereotyped advertising aimed at children, TV shopping, which may not be as common as it was before, credit card debts, online shopping, gambling addiction, alcohol abuse and other costly substances. Nevertheless, I believe that Lotta Johnsson Fornarve, in her speech, blamed former alliance governments for the fact that people have been in debt today. Is that clear?
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1104	Madam President, I would like I believe that the previous bourgeois government bears a partial responsibility for the fact that people have become more indebted. This was done by deteriorating the unemployment fund and deteriorating health insurance so that people had more difficulty in coping. Of course it has contributed to people's poorer economy. This may ultimately lead to over-indebtedness. This is not the whole reason or the only explanation, but of course it has contributed.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1105	Madam President, I would like I won't use both of my two minutes on the elegan take the way Lars Beckman did. It is amazing that in a debate on consumer protection and the means to overcome the vulnerability felt by many consumers to the issues we have discussed, we are in a position to debate taxation and employment policy. There are the factors I mentioned earlier, i.e. addiction, TV shopping, gambling addiction and so on. I would say that, during the time of the Alliance, we made sure to strengthen the economy of many people, particularly through measures such as the job tax deductions, which stimulate people to get into work and strengthen people's economies while they are at work. We also created more jobs through companies that grow and are allowed to grow in sectors where it has not been allowed to grow before, namely in the tax-funded welfare sector. But we are not satisfied with this. We believe that creating more jobs reduces people's indebtedness and dependency on benefits. We believe in the possibility of creating, through more and easier jobs, lower thresholds for people to get into work and manage their own livelihoods. It is with an alliance policy that we reduce the debt of ordinary people.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1110	Madam President, I would like But, please Ola Johansson, this is not true. We saw unemployment and youth unemployment increase during the time of the alliance government. We saw how the unemployed got increasingly difficult to get by at their unemployment fund and how the sick got increasingly difficult to cope with their sickness benefit. It is important change insurance that will enable people to survive during a transitional period so that they can eventually return to work. Reducing taxes is not a good idea to get the wheels of society going. On the contrary, we need to raise more money to speed up the wheels and spin welfare and other such areas.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1111	Madam President, I would like When it comes to consumer policy, the Liberals' view is that the individual should have the power and the ability to make informed decisions based on his or her own wishes. No social system other than the free market economy with clear rules of play and effective competition gives consumers the opportunity for power. If the consumer is to be able to exercise this power, it goes without saying that knowledge and a free and transparent scrutiny of the players on the market are required. We are also clear that rogue companies must be stopped and prevented from exercising their rights. In order to have this opportunity, consumers must, of course, also have good access to information. That's why we in the Liberals co-founded the new organisation Hallå konsument at the Swedish Consumer Agency – in order to provide information and power to consumers. Madam President, I would like Today, I will refer to gender-discriminatory advertising and brokering services. Liberals also have reservations about consumer guidance, consumer laws in the EU and payment times in business, but for time winning I do not bring them up. When it comes to advertising operators who convey a gender stereotyped image and disseminate gender-discriminatory ads, our view is that they do not belong in a society that strives for greater equality and equal value for all people. It's a matter of course for all parliamentary parties, I guess. On the Liberal side, however, we believe that legislation is not the most appropriate way to combat sexist advertising. The best way to combat this kind of advertising is through self-measures. The advertising ombudsman, who is a self-established and self-funded organisation that does a very good job, is by far the best way forward. The advertising ombudsman has examined 800 cases since the beginning of 2009. The organisation's own image is that self-action is more effective and more flexible than legislation, with which the government parties have now begun to threaten. The rules developed by the industry itself also contribute to greater understanding, knowledge and compliance of the industry. On the Liberal side, we therefore believe that there is no need for legislation against sexist advertising. Contrary to what has been said in this House today, we believe that legislation would be more expensive because it is the taxpayer who should pay it and not the advertising ombudsman or the industry itself. We believe that it will take longer to process cases because it is a court that will bring them into its proceedings. We believe that the practice on the matter will be worse because the Labour Court, which will become the court of appeal, will have to work out a practice for many years. We believe that it will simply be less effective. In addition – which is by far the most important reason not to allow legislation in this area but to allow self-remediation – legislation would be more restrictive, that is to say, that advertising would be released in Sweden which would otherwise have been stopped. The industry in Sweden operates on the entire Nordic stage, and not a single one from there has come to me and said that it works better in Norway and Denmark than in Sweden. On the contrary, everyone is clear that in Sweden it works best. I would also like to say that the debate that we have in this House today is a little strange. You still live a little bit in the 20th century. The most important thing to look at today is how advertising is produced online. Nobody here has highlighted this in any way, and that is the most important issue. That is why I would like to turn to my second point, Madam President, which concerns brokering services. Today, many consumers use digital brokering services for the purchase of goods and services. Often consumers do not know which traders they have concluded a contract with. This applies, for example, when you buy a flight ticket on a website that brings together all companies offering airline tickets. In this business, you can very easily end up wrong if you haven't done any background checks and don't know who you can demand responsibility for if things go wrong. I believe that brokering services offer greater opportunities and open up freedom of choice for consumers. It is therefore a good development. However, as industries become more in demand, this also means that rogue operators take advantage of consumers. That is why we need to review the legislation. Consumer exposure to the use of online brokering services must be taken more seriously. I believe that the government should urgently set up an investigation to look at how to counter rogue operators in the brokering industry and strengthen the position of consumers when they are exploited by rogue operators. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to draw attention to our two announcements today. The first concerns short-term loans. There we are happy to be able to plug the holes that exist. We introduced legislation already during the time of the Alliance, but it has not proved sufficient. The second concerns the purchase of live animals. I agree with the previous speaker from the Center Party that horses cannot be compared to washing machines. That is why this legislation needs to be reviewed. We in the Liberals expect the government to follow up on these announcements and set up investigations on the issues.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1132	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Robert Hannah, for a very interesting speech! I think it shows that our parties share a strong commitment to consumer rights but also their ability to choose sustainably and consciously. I took a reply because I have great sympathy for the concerns of the Liberals and understand that the Liberals are concerned that the good work that the Advertising Ombudsman has done and is doing would be weakened if we made legislation that did not allow the industry to continue with active self-remediation. However, I do not rule out that we can find a good solution where we can combine the best of these two worlds. What I am concerned about is whether we should go along the lines of the Liberals and have no legislation at all is simply surrendering to the reality that we have today, namely that there is still quite serious sexist advertising by operators who cannot be influenced by the advertising ombudsman's ruling. My question to Robert Hannah is therefore: are the Liberals prepared to take any steps to get at what the Advertising Ombudsman is unable to get at, or must the Liberals' policy simply be content with the fact that there will continue to be pornographic vans and more in our public spaces?
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1136	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. The Liberals' position on the question is: If it ain 中 t broke, why fix it or try to break it? We do not want to poke a system that we believe works better than those of our neighbours. At the same time we operate in the same market, and people in the industry say to me: It works better in Sweden. In Sweden you can stop advertising that you cannot stop in Denmark, Norway or Finland. Then I feel a duty to say that we do not need to change the legislation or the systems we have because they are adequate. As regards the question of how to get to those who do not listen to the legislation, I am not convinced that legislation on the matter will somehow stop these operators from having this advertising. It will still exist. What is important from the perspective of Liberals is that the biggest players in the market, such as those who sell advertising sites, assume their responsibilities and do the right thing. Then we cannot prevent some people, rogue entrepreneurs, from exploiting the systems. However, the Swedish Consumer Agency has clear mandates to discourage rogue entrepreneurs in general, and one can look at how to strengthen that mandate in this regard. I would also like to point out that I think we are constantly tackling the wrong question when we are debating this. The most important question today is how young people, for example, are exposed to online advertising and what advertising there needs to be resisted. That debate is not in this House at all. It is no party other than the Liberals who exercise on this subject. We have to ask ourselves what legislation we need to have there. I think it would be better to have a discussion about the future instead of talking about the 15% advertising market that is out on the streets, in public forums.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1143	Madam President, I would like I am very happy to discuss here in this House and in other contexts how we can prevent people from being exposed to sex stereotype advertising. However, what we have to discuss today is precisely advertising in the public sphere, and that is also a very important issue. From Robert Hannahs's reply, I understand that the Liberals simply don't think the system is broken. At the same time, you are expressing the fact that there is still a problem with sexist advertising in the public sphere. The fact that Sweden is better than any neighbouring country does not seem to me to be a strong enough reason not to try to remedy the problems we see. I think we should look at the Icelandic model, which seems to have combined the best of two worlds. The actors I am talking about above all are not those who do not listen to legislation, because we do not have legislation today. What we have is the advertising ombudsman's ruling, and there are companies that do not care about them. The advertising ombudsman has no means of sanctioning. It's about name and shame and giving tips to the companies that want to take them and make sure that the companies that violate the standards are hanged out, and hopefully the customers choose something else. This is not effective enough for all actors and does not affect all actors. As I highlighted in the line shift with the Moderates, consumer power has limitations. We do not get to all the problems with the wallet voting, which can be called the consumer power, nor with the self-remediation to which the Advertising Ombudsman contributes.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1148	Madam President, I would like I myself am a lawyer, and I basically believe that advertising workers are actually better than lawyers at assessing what is sexist advertising. That's why I'm saying that I think it's better for the industry itself to clean up. In my view, what the Green Party is proposing is a model that is worse than what we have in Sweden. I am not at all convinced that what you are trying to sell gives a better result; I am quite convinced that things are getting worse. On the question of whether there are sanctions or not, I would say that the industry has sanctions. When I meet companies in the industry, they say that if a company has been convicted by the Advertising Ombudsman, they will not take in their advertising in the future. It's a strong self-cleaning system. However, I agree that we need to look at how we can strengthen consumer power. I certainly do not think that we are doing so by giving the Labour Court the opportunity to run a lot of year-long proceedings to assess different cases. Instead, we need to look at what the Consumer Ombudsman is doing and how we can strengthen the Consumer Ombudsman in terms of how to inform and work on these issues. Maybe it's a step forward. However, I would still argue that the most important work that needs to be done in this area concerns online advertising and not advertising on lamp posts, bus stops and the like. It is not there that the large amount of advertising can affect young people today. Instead, it is online, and we can continue to discuss and watch this. For me, however, the Green Party's proposal is a worse model, which is why I say no to it.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1153	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to begin by stating that a horse is not the same thing as a refrigerator and that a dog is not the same thing as a purse. This may seem quite obvious, to put it mildly, but it is not under the legislation that actually equates the horse with the refrigerator and the dog with the purse. This, Madam President, creates totally untenable and often very tragic and protracted situations, both for those who sell animals and for those who buy an animal. But the biggest losers are the ones that get caught most, namely the animals themselves.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1156	I do not know how many different examples of this I could line up here today. This is, among other things, the background to the fact that we in the Alliance in the Committee on Civil Liberties, following the diligent work of a number of colleagues who have also exercised the matter, have pushed through an announcement, which I strongly urge, that the Government, both nationally and within the European Union, should initiate considerations on the rules of the Consumer Sales Law for the purchase of live animals, are properly designed. Madam President, I would like When selling a horse between a trader – most animal breeders are private individuals, who run their own business – and a private person today it is the Consumer Sales Law that governs both the purchase and a possible complaint. An animal is seen according to the Consumer Sales Law as any other commodity. That means, Madam President, that the customer has a right of complaint on horses and dogs, just like any other consumer product. A buyer can thus claim that an animal was already wrong at the time of purchase, and the seller is then fully responsible for proving that the defects did not exist at the time during the first six months. Of course, this relationship is not applicable to live animals, which are constantly changing during, for example, environmental change or new handling or training procedures. The Consumer Sales Law applies to movable property and should primarily concern consumer goods such as televisions, cars and refrigerators, but certainly not live animals. In the preparatory work to the Consumer Sales Law, the scope – which goods would be included – was discussed and the conclusion was that it would cover exactly the same goods as the Sales Law, i.e. movable property. It can be noted, Madam President, that, among other things, property rights, securities and shares have been excluded from the Sales Law. It is clear from the preparatory work to the Sales Law that it is not appropriate to have the same cancellation rules for shares and right-of-occupancy shares as for other movable property and that the rules on remedying, i.e. any measure to restore the goods in operational condition after an error, cannot be applied to the purchase of movable property with certain rights. It goes without saying that the same reasoning should have been used in the case of live animals. The Consumer Sales Law states, as I said, that the general rule is that errors that appear within six months should be considered to have existed at the time of delivery. The exceptions are cases where this is incompatible with the nature of the goods or fault, which primarily focuses on the purchase of food. It should, in fact, be a natural conclusion that living animals can be compared to certain foods, which are also highly changing in nature. Food cannot be returned unchanged a few months after purchase, nor should live animals be possible in the same way as today. The same exception, Madam President, which applies to food should therefore also apply to live animals, when animals, like food, are undergoing changes, unlike more traditional consumer goods. Madam President, I would like Swedish horse breeding is well regarded in the world. Swedish-born horses are exported abroad, where they reap great successes, and breeding of horses is also one of the basic bolts in the Swedish horse industry. The breeding of horses also means a great deal to society at large in the form of everything from jobs to rural businesses and open landscapes. Swedish horse industry, especially the large horseback riding sector, consists mainly of us who use the horse for hobby activities or other recreational purposes. The problems with the current legislation mean that many horse breeders are currently highly hesitant about selling horses to private individuals. If the current trend continues, Swedish horse breeding will stop, and there is a risk that it will have a number of negative long-term effects, such as reduced rural entrepreneurship, loss of revenue for the industry and loss of jobs. Of course, Madam President, the consumer perspective is important. I myself am a consumer in this area. There must always be a balance between different interests. There are plenty of appropriate arrangements for new legislation. The most important thing is that the legislation is adapted to live animals. As it is today, all parties are harmed: the seller, the consumer and the animal. It has succeeded in reconciling the worst of two worlds. This must change, and it must change sooner rather than later.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1168	Madam President, I would like I was asked by Mats Green how animals and the protection of animals are affected by the rules of the Consumer Protection Act. Since the protection interests of the Consumer Protection Act are the consumer and animal welfare are regulated by other legislation, such as the Animal Welfare Act, we are in fact a bit out of the question of what is the subject of this debate. This is not to say that animal health cannot be affected in different ways by the rules governing how to buy and sell animals. For example, in our reservation we note that there is a risk that watered down consumer protection might lead to weaker incentives for the seller to produce accurate veterinary certificates. That is not to say that I agree at all with the description that Mats Green and several others have wanted to give, that we equate horses with toasters. I would like to express my doubts that the Swedish courts would reason in this way. In practice, as the text of the report also shows, the courts normally require the seller to do so – so the higher requirement of proof is not that it is fully demonstrated – that the error has arisen afterwards. Of course, it is the circumstances of the individual case that matter: Has it been a week or six months? This is a very relevant factor that the courts actually also take into account. As the Consumer Sales Law is the implementation of an EU directive, we also see that there is a challenge in how the issue needs to be addressed.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1171	Madam President, I would like Annika Hirvonen Falk's speech was perhaps an answer to something, but it was definitely not an answer to my question. I know perfectly well where animal welfare is regulated in Swedish legislation. My question was: in what way does the Green Party believe that animals benefit from the legislation that is now in place? I could list any number of cases where, in the light of this legislation, disputes have arisen, and animals have had to be put to death precisely because they are the subject of disputes due to poor legislation. Standing here and idylling the legislation that everyone knows is a problem does not hold up. It is a mystery to me how representatives of a party who at least say in words that good animal welfare can stand here and safeguard the existing legislation. I would also like to see the reasons why all of this has been opposed. Annika Hirvonen Falk says that courts have a different view of this than the law allows. The law is clear and clear: You equate a horse with a refrigerator. It sounds very strange, but that is what reality looks like, and that is precisely why this must change. Again: In what way does Annika Hirvonen Falk believe that the Consumer Sales Law is good from an animal law perspective? It's a mystery to me that someone might consider it. Do you have any idea of reality? I would like to be described to myself how the existing legislation is good for animals and their health.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1176	Madam President, I would like If people were to stop arguing about bought horses and dogs just because we made the change of law that Mats Green advocates, the thing would be in a different light. But the problem is that the disputes would not be different. What Mats Green and others are proposing is simply changing the proof requirements, that is, who should stand to produce the evidence in these long-term disputes. The fact that there are people arguing about animals who, for one reason or another, have become ill, for example, will not change with the proposal advocated by Mats Green. What we are talking about now is, of course, which of the consumers and the trader will be responsible for most of the evidence in relation to when the disease or injury to the animal occurred. If you make the change advocated by Mats Green, among others, you weaken the consumer's position in relation to the trader. You can think that is reasonable if you think that the trader has too much responsibility and if you think it is wrong that we are protecting consumers. However, I think it is wise that we have a high level of consumer protection because the consumer is normally the weaker party. Then I have a great deal of confidence in the courts, which have proven to make nuanced interpretations and assessments from the point of view of reality, because they also realise that these presumption rules must be interpreted differently depending on the circumstances. That is not to say that it is not wise for there to be a certain presumption in favour of the consumer, as the consumer normally has more difficulty in taking advantage of his rights.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1180	Madam President, I would like No one has laid down what new legislation should look like. We say that this needs to be reviewed because the current legislation fails as badly as it can. It may be understandable that the factual knowledge of this matter and this area are not huge. But it is a mystery to me how Annika Hirvonen Falk can stand here and defend the legislation that strikes so wrong. No one is satisfied with the legislation and the situation that exists today. Consumers are not satisfied. They're usually the ones that get caught. The sellers are also not satisfied. We also have every reason to be concerned from the point of view of the third party, if I may say so. Stop defending existing legislation! Let us all see together how best to bring about another piece of legislation. There are a variety of different arrangements and a variety of options. But stop standing here defending an existing legislation that only has losers! Madam President, I would like It is as I said at the end of my main speech: this legislation has united the worst of two worlds. Stop defending this, and let us instead see how we can jointly change this to the benefit of consumers, sellers and the animals it touches after all.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1184	Madam President, I would like I did not intend to discuss live animals, but I asked for the floor because I would like clarification on the Moderate reservation on telephone sales. I couldn't take a line on Lars Beckman, so that's why I choose to do it at Mats Green instead. We seem to agree that there are a lot of misunderstandings that can arise in connection with telephone sales and that this is a problem. Then we have different ways of looking at how to solve this. I do not think you want to take this seriously because you do not want to impose a written agreement on telephone sales. This is something that is recommended both by the Swedish Consumer Agency and by the investigation that has looked at the issue. The main problem is that today consumers often do not know what contracts they have concluded in connection with telephone sales. If, on the other hand, you get a written agreement, you could sit and look through it and understand what you have agreed to.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1188	Madam President, I would like I'll be very honest with you that I'm a horse nerd, and that's why I'm standing here now. Our consumer rights officer Lars Beckman had to depart for Gävle. I must be honest and say that I am definitely not the right person to discuss the agreement procedure with. When Lotta Johnsson Fornarve wants to discuss horse purchase and purchase of live animals in another way, I will always be prepared to take the discussion. Sometimes we have met in Parliament's gym. I will certainly be able to update my knowledge on this particular issue. Then we can have a discussion about both horse purchases and telephone sales there. But here I can say: I am definitely not the right person to deal with that debate. I am not ashamed to admit that, Madam President.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1190	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I would, of course, have asked for a reply to Lars Beckman's speech if I had had the opportunity. Now I didn't. That is why I chose to ask for a reply to your speech. You may well take this point with you: that with a written agreement this is a very good idea if you want to improve the situation in connection with telephone sales for consumers, especially when it comes to vulnerable consumers, such as older people, people who have difficulties in coping with the Swedish language, people with disabilities and so on. This is something that is really longed for by many consumers.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1191	Madam President, I would like I represent a party that likes to talk to everyone, so let's discuss both horse purchases and phone sales then, Lotta. I think it'll be fine.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1192	Madam President, I would like The world is changing. Yes, every generation can claim that. But the fact is that globalisation, migration and digitalisation at many levels and at a rapid pace are shaping the society we know. Political philosophy, international politics and institutions and actors in democracy are changing. And a very uncertain change of tribe in the community contract shakes the happy street. Older sets of norms, values and laws for moral systems and trust are loosened and challenged by new, varied entrenchments of the common man. Old truths are challenged and replaced by new ones. The latter, Madam President, is particularly interesting in the light of the report we are dealing with today on media issues. Is it something that is a fundamental element of democratic society, the free and independent media that can report on cold facts and objective truths through honest journalistic work, which citizens should be able to rely on? This applies in particular to the scrutiny of power by the media. True and false is fundamental to account, just as in free and independent research. At the same time, there are few things that are now so much discussed as the situation of source-critical, impartial and factual media and journalistic work, and the very existence of that kind of media in the eyes of the public. What are the possibilities for individual citizens to access source-critical and objectively-oriented media? If we lift our eyes for a global analysis, we see a complex development. On the one hand, the flow of information has been democratised through social media and by the fact that more and more people can contribute to the common exchange and flow of information and news. On the other hand, the new technology enables propaganda and, let us say, one-way news to be pumped out and attached without reflecting on the meaning. This applies, of course, not least to the fact that people increasingly seek their information in their own filter bubbles or put more faith in Google searches than traditional media. This was also discussed in the Committee on Knowledge and Culture at the Nordic Council in Stockholm at the beginning of the week. This also takes the form of macro-level information and propaganda warfare. Not least, this is something that the Baltic States sense, as Russian channels, according to Baltic and Nordic representatives, have a very tendentious and angled broadcasting TV in order to influence the image of the Baltic Sea situation and Russia. Broadcasts can be distributed through companies elsewhere. It is extremely serious for trust in factual news reporting in our surrounding world and for the situation in the Baltic Sea region. In the polarized debate it is sometimes claimed that the Swedish democrats could be placed among those who want to circumscribe the freedom of the free media or have a different opinion on the value of public services. It's the other way around. Most recently in the committee's public hearing on public service, we praised the value of the Nordic public service companies. Whether other parties have been criticized for having tendencies of political impoverishment towards public services, I did not intend to touch on it today. Instead, I note that it is generally foolish to throw stones in glass houses and that, as we have previously proclaimed, we in Sweden democrats are critical of developments in those countries where the impartiality and independence of public services are challenged. Confidence in public service remains high but faltering, as more and more voices express criticism of lack of impartiality and objectivity. I can make a quick look. It was an article in Dagens Nyheter today about growing criticism of the balance of debate within the public service companies. Applications are launched that will give more perspectives on news. And voices in the media and among citizens have recently wondered whether public service is a body to review power or a body of power to examine the people. I think we can agree that it should be the former – at arm's length away from us in this House. Being in the public service and experiencing persistent criticism must lead to self-examination and self-criticism. Some tools that are close at hand are: to take the impression of how public service channels in our Nordic neighbours work, to broaden political reporting and debate with perspectives established among the public and to actively and integratedly work with programme ethics and independence to avoid just politicisation, polarisation and political unilaterality. Yes, it is urgent to identify the criticism in order to defend a fundamentally good idea and institution, as public service is. Madam President, I would like This week the Nordic Council held a session here in Stockholm. Nordic cooperation extends across many fields, including the media area. It is about the public service companies' collaboration, Nordvision, the Nordic film and television prize and so on. At the same time, there is the possibility of increased cooperation. This is something we in the Swedish Democrats express in our media movement. The aim is to strengthen the Nordic cultural community but also to learn from our Nordic neighbours how we can reflect societal developments, broaden the famous opinion corridor and reduce the risk of unilateral reporting. It could be a source for the public service broadcasters. They could receive constructive criticism and be able to learn how to improve. They could raise awareness of what perspectives and events they missed or avoided reporting on. Our hope is also that increased cooperation can have a positive effect on other media news reporting. This would strengthen the credibility of the entire media sector. In addition, series like the Bron and Skam have done more for the interest in the Nordic language community than various forms of political action have done in years. I support the reservations of the Swedish Democrats, Nos 1 and 2.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1200	Madam President, I would like So we have come to the annual exercise report on public service. Once again, I have to say that there is quite a lot of agreement in this House on the importance of public service. The mission carried out by Swedish Television, Swedish Radio and Education Radio is important and fundamental for our democracy and for our open society. A few weeks ago, the Committee on Culture held a public hearing in Parliament. It was about the public service of the future. It was a well-visited performance, where I was pleased to welcome both the Minister for Culture and Democracy and all the directors of the broadcaster. Representatives from both the independent side and academia were also involved. It became a good and important starting point for a year that will perhaps more than anything else be marked by the debate on public service. Madam President, I would like Last year, I debated the proposals contained in the report on several occasions in this House. I was concerned about the slowness that I thought, and still think, characterized the actions of the government. On a number of occasions, I raised this issue with the Minister for Culture and Democracy in both Question Time and Interpellation debates. I did so only in December. As we are now in the middle of the current broadcasting period for our public service broadcasters, I wondered when the mandatory mid-term reconciliation would take place – this so that we can see in good time what needs to be changed and improved for the next broadcasting period. I also wondered how the government would proceed with regard to the forthcoming broadcasting permits. The next permit period begins in 2020, and that is where we take the political decisions. It is not an entirely straightforward process, and I was and am still afraid that the government has underestimated this complexity. Finally, I wondered how the government was going to act with regard to the financing of the companies. The background is, of course, the announcement made by the Riksdag in broad agreement in 2015 on a cross-border and parliamentary composite investigation of the radio and television fee that should be made in good time for the next permit period. As late as the end of last year, we were without answers to these questions, but then a lot has actually happened. In February, the Minister of Culture and representatives of the broadcasters met for the mid-term review. The Minister for Culture has also explained this in committee. The meeting seemed to have mostly been about how the companies themselves felt it had gone and not so much about what the government and the department thought. But still... you have to be happy for the little stuff. On the other hand, I welcome the fact that the government has now set up a parliamentary committee to investigate and present proposals for new funding for public services. The Committee has started its work in a good spirit, and I have great hopes that we will be able to come up with a well-thought-out proposal now that everyone finally agrees that the current financing system is no longer sustainable. The committee will also receive an additional assignment regarding the broadcasting permits, which according to the government should be delivered before the summer. This is also welcomed, but at the same time I think it is in the last team. It is important that the Committee has a reasonable time to make a well-thought-out proposal. It is also important that broadcasters have equal time to prepare for a new permit period. But here, too, I think the government's actions have unfortunately been slow. Madam President, I would like In addition to the motions included in the report, the Government's letter is also discussed in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's review of Teracom Group AB's operations and the government's control of the company. The underlying objective of Teracom's activities is to ensure that the broadcasting of public service broadcasters can reach the entire population safely and efficiently, not least in view of a preparedness function. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the company fulfils this objective fairly well but also strongly criticises other parts of Teracom's operations and the government's governance. It points to a number of side activities that have a weak or no link to the terrestrial networks and questions whether this new approach is compatible with the basic mission. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, the reorientation of Teracom means that it enters several competitive markets, and the risk of Teracom hampering private enterprise increases as a result. For large parts, there is currently no motive for state ownership," says Riksrevisionen. It also states that it is justified for the State to maintain terrestrial network activities but is clear that other activities, including telecommunications activities, do not need or should be owned by the State. For the terrestrial network business that lies in the company's basic assignment, it is not even considered that it is self-evident that the form of public limited liability company is the appropriate one. In other words, it is quite sharp criticism that the Swedish National Audit Office is in favour of the expansion of Teracom's operations and that the government has been inadequate in its governance of the company. Something surprising is the criticism rather casually dismissed by the government. It is believed that there is no reason whatsoever to review the state ownership of Teracom, nor any reason to review the organisational form. Perhaps it is felt that Teracom's social mission may need to be reviewed in some parts. Madam President, I would like On behalf of the Alliance, we have written a joint special opinion in which we share the view that the high coverage requirements of terrestrial networks remain relevant for broadcasting programme services throughout the country and that, by extension, it is also a matter of functioning emergency preparedness in virtually any circumstances. But to dismiss the Swedish National Audit Office's criticisms as easily as the government does is not reasonable. The Alliance is of the simple opinion that where the state is needed, the state should be a good actor, but where the state is not needed, the tasks are better handled by others. In this way, we share in many respects the criticism that the Swedish National Audit Office makes and believe that the measures announced by the Government are inadequate. It is high time to review the role of the state in the market and thus also the ownership of Teracom. We also intend to come back to this in other contexts. Madam President, I would like With the notification of this special opinion, I request that the committee's proposal for a decision be approved.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1214	Madam President, I would like The report KrU7 on terrestrial networks and public services deals with the government's letter 2016/ 17:74 Teracom and terrestrial networks – media policy, monopoly and emergency preparedness. In turn, it deals with the Swedish National Audit Office's review of Teracom Group AB's operations and the government's control of the company. However, as previous speakers have pointed out, the report also deals with general exercise which concerns, among other things, the financing of, the mission and content of public services. Let us begin with the government's letter on the audit of the Swedish National Audit Office. The committee proposes that this be added to the file. Several of the recommendations highlighted in the review, such as ensuring new and relevant economic targets, which have not been implemented since 2009, the Government intends to establish in 2017. It is also intended to complement these with a mission goal linked to the company's social mission. The Government also intends to review the operating provisions of the Articles of Association, Teracom Group's Articles of Association in 2017, and to ensure that the Group's overall mandate is relevant. With this list of measures from the government, the committee feels content and believes that the letter can be added to the file. As far as public service is concerned, or public service broadcasting, we Social Democrats see that the importance of this has increased rather than decreased in recent years. We can see reports from different parts of the world where political representatives want to control and restrict the freedom of the media. What most of us see as obvious is something that we all have to stand up for all the time. A strong and independent public service is an important part of the Swedish media landscape and ultimately to safeguard our democracy. If we look at some of the motions dealt with in the report, we can see that many are about the public service financing model. The current funding model of the radio and television fee was introduced to ensure the independence and independence of public services. The model has worked well over the years, and the willingness to pay has been good. But in recent years we see a slight decrease in it. With fewer and fewer households holding a physical television set, a long-term sustainable financing model is needed that will continue to guarantee the independence of public services. Now the government has set up a cross-block parliamentary committee, which I think is a good thing. We believe that we benefit from a broad political consensus on these issues. Initially, a proposal for a new financing model for public services will be developed. The proposal should be completed within a few months. After that, work will be carried out on developing the new conditions for the broadcasting licence for public service, as it expires in 2019. In view of the ongoing work on funding, the committee rejects the motions on this issue. Madam President, I would like A few weeks ago, the Committee on Culture held a hearing on the public service of the future. Several well-initiated speakers were invited: journalists, one researcher, the three heads of companies and the Minister for Culture and Democracy. There were many issues highlighted during the hearing, but what I think everyone highlighted in one way or another was precisely the issue of democracy and the mission of knowledge and education. It is about everyone's right to knowledge, facts and information that can be trusted. But it is also a question of public service being where people are. Therefore, it is crucial for the future that public service is available on the platforms where the audience is located. As an example, today more than 1 million Swedes use SVT only online. Then I think it should be obvious that SVT should be there. But they must also be able to credit the time they send via the web when you look at whether the companies have met the conditions in the broadcasting permits. This is not being done today, and I believe that this issue needs to be resolved in the light of the new broadcasting licence. The report contains motions in which the government is asked in various ways to make changes to the public service mission. Since the government has announced an additional directive that will come in 2017 to the Public Service Committee precisely to highlight the overall direction and framework of the programme activities, the committee does not think that there is any reason to support these motions. We Social Democrats believe that it is still important to safeguard the independence of public service broadcasters. They contribute, through their journalistic work, to the breadth of the programming content, the reflection of conditions throughout the country and the diversity of the population. In the coming years, we will continue to follow the discussions on public service but also the proposals on public service for the future. I look forward to continuing this debate. Today, I call for the report as a whole to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1229	Madam President, I would like When the Culture Committee took part in an open house in the Riksdag a couple of weekends ago, there was a steady stream of visitors. By far the most common question we were asked was: What happens to the TV license in the future? The answer that could be given then is the same that can be given today. We have a parliamentary inquiry looking at the issue, and hopefully, within a few months, we will be able to deliver a proposal on how the future public service can be financed, and in broad political agreement as it stands. Seven parties give this answer now. A party chooses to go by the side. The Swedish Democrats want the Riksdag to decide here and now what form of funding will apply in the future. What we know is that the current form of financing is not working because the proportion of households without television is growing. In fact, in seven years the share of households that do not own a TV has doubled. If we look at the age group 20-29 years, we see that the trend is even faster. Clearly, television owners are a dying breed, and if we want to continue to have public service funding based on the current level of ambition, television ownership cannot be a basis for this funding. But the digital transformation means not only that we change our behaviour when it comes to how we share public service content but also when we do. Those who are well aware of the range available on SVT Play will not return to table television. And a growing generation asks quite a question as to why one should watch a program at a time that someone else decides if it is not about live broadcasts. At the same time, the fact that more and more people are taking part in public service content online also creates fantastic conditions for public service to broaden both its range and the audience. However, as we have also heard earlier from the speaker's chair, we now have rules that make this development difficult, and of course we need to have a change in the rules so that public services can benefit, within the framework of the broadcasting licence, all the material that is published exclusively on the web. At the same time, the Audit Board must be given full powers to review that material. But the map is drawn not only about how we take part in public service and when we take part in public service but also what public service is. We know that the media law is converging online. Newspapers publish web TV spots, and Swedish Radio and SVT have texts on their websites. We see that the previous view that public service is a distribution channel is completely out of date. We must begin to define public service on the basis of content rather than distribution. However, in this changing time when so much is being thrown over, there is one thing that must be constant, and that is that we should safeguard the independence of public services from the political level. Public service has a fantastically important mission to review the parliament and government, and there must not even be the slightest suspicion that one follows that review based on some kind of political consideration. Seven parties are safe in this view, but on the Swedish democrats' side, this is a major wave. In the motion report, we have dealt with a couple of motions from Swedish democrats who really want to go in and poke into the details of public service. There is a motion that the Riksdag should decide which music is to be played and another that the Riksdag should decide which age group a radio channel should be directed to. It is easy to laugh at this type of exercise, but when we know what is happening in Hungary and Poland and when we hear representatives of the Swedish Democrats pay tribute to what is happening there and realise that the same thing can happen in Sweden too, the laughter gets stuck in the throat. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1238	Madam President, I would like Niclas Malmberg stayed at an unusually pleasant, objective and balanced level for so long today that I thought it would almost not be worth asking for a reply, but after a while there was obviously reason to do so. When Niclas Malmberg states that there would be seven parties behind the investigation, the directives and the committee that are now looking at these issues and that we in the Swedish Democrats would be out of it, it is not in keeping with the truth. We are in the investigation and have said all the way up to now that we are in favour of finding a consensus on the issue of funding. We have even written in our media policy committee motion that our initial value is a tax-funded solution, like the funeral fee that should be able to stand outside the ordinary state budget. However, if the investigation comes up with alternatives that are on the same basis and are jointly funded and tax-funded, we are prepared to look at those proposals. That is why we have already expressed it in our committee motion in the past and in the recent investigation. When it comes to the questions that Niclas Malmberg travels about what individual members of parliament write in individual motions, we have a right to exercise in the Riksdag where individual members have the right to exercise on individual issues and raise issues concerning, for example, the range of public services or whatever it may be. It is not the same, as Niclas Malmberg knows, as we as a party group support these movements as a parliamentary group. There are also representatives in both the Moderates and other parties who have raised various questions and criticisms about how public service works and want to see reforms even if the Moderates, for example, do not support those proposals. So it's nothing unusual.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1241	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are obviously playing a double game here with rhetoric in one context and another rhetoric in another context. It is a fact that the Swedish Democrats are making a reservation here in favour of a request that the Riksdag should already decide here and now which form of funding will apply to public service in the future. If the Swedish Democrats took the investigation work very seriously and went seriously into it, they would not be making sharp proposals here and now. Of course, the party has taken a line in the past, but now that we have begun an investigation, we need to withdraw from that power in order to find a common solution in the investigation. Then it is that the Swedish Democrats release motions from individual party members. I have not quoted Anna Hagwall's motion here, because she is excluded from the Swedish Democrats, and that motion should not burden the party. But are Mikael Jansson, David Lång and Robert Stenkvist also excluded? If they are disfellowshipped, this should not burden the party, but if they are not, it is a line taken by Swedish democrats. It is also Swedish democrats who have gone out to celebrate what is happening in Poland and Hungary. There are no representatives from any other parties who have expressed pleasure at it. It is now Aron Emilsson who has to answer for the question. Why do the Swedish Democrats put forward a reservation at a time when we should give the public service inquiry a job peace?
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1245	Madam President, I would like I can only come back to the fact that we are not playing a double game without keeping a strict line from the media policy committee motion to the reservation and what we have now said in the investigation, namely that we are going in with an initial value and that we are then prepared to look at various proposals that the investigation can come up with. We have also repeated this in the investigation, so there are no peculiarities here. Rather, there is a clear red thread and a clear line and transparency. Niclas Malmberg comes back to this with Poland and Hungary as many times, and I can only once again be clear that, as I think Niclas Malmberg knows, both I and our party secretary Richard Jomshof participated in the News a while ago and that both of them were very clearly criticising developments in, for example, Poland and the way in which public services were designed there and the reforms that have been made. And we may be considered representatives of party leadership and spokesperson of the party. So it has been clear, and it has been obvious. Developments in Poland, precisely towards political governance of public service broadcasters, are worrying. And, as I said earlier, I think we need to look more at tools to secure public service providers from increased political governance. Therefore, in our media policy exercise, for example, we suggested that the investigation should take a much broader approach to public service than has been done. This mainly concerns the issue of financing. We also think that one should look at how the Audit Board can be strengthened in different ways in order to be able to review objectivity and bias. And how can we secure the broadcasting license, and strengthen and increase cooperation for public services in the Nordic region? It is possible to exchange experiences and best practices and find ways to reflect social development, diversity of opinion and the news that is not covered in our respective countries.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1249	Madam President, I would like Aron Emilsson speaks of a tight line. Then we should remember that in the Media investigation, the Swedish Democrats launched the proposal that public service should not be allowed to recruit people from the daily press. In this way, a wet blanket would be laid over which competence public service could recruit at all. Aron Emilsson mentions that Richard Jomshof has expressed support for independent public service, i.e. from a rhetorical point of view. It is the same Richard Jomshof who wrote in e-mail to Erik Almqvist that the Swedish Democrats must adapt their political message to a rhetoric that works in Sweden. This is the answer Erik Almqvist receives from Richard Jomshof after celebrating Poland. Erik Almqvist is therefore not wrong in substance, but he must adapt his rhetoric to the current situation in Sweden. Then, once the Swedish Democrats are in government, you can push through that policy. These are public records. Aron Emilsson may try to deny them in this context. But the Swedish democrats are no doubt trying to make a double play. You have a political line. But you want to adapt your rhetoric to what you think can go home in the cabins.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1252	Madam President, I would like Since I am the last speaker in this debate, much has already been said about this report and also about public service. But I will try to add some aspects that have not been highlighted. I would like to begin by explaining what our two reservations are about. Reservation 1 is about the fact that we would have liked the Parliamentary Public Service Committee to look at a form of financing similar to the funeral fee. That's our approach to the ongoing investigation. We naturally support the investigation, and it is important that we have a funding model that is widely established among us eight parliamentary parties. Having said that, I would like to point out that if the Committee comes up with a proposal for a better solution, the Swedish Democrats are pragmatic and will look at that proposal. We may even support it and leave our approach. The Parliamentary Public Service Committee has had two meetings, two good ones. I am pleased that the Committee has a chairman who has a positive attitude towards finding a common solution. It deserves public service. It is of the utmost importance to find a solution that ensures sustainable financing, so that political governance can neither threaten this nor risk a systemic collapse. A modernised, long-term secure, jointly funded and technology-neutral financing model is what we want to see as the final result of the investigation. In addition to funding, it is of great importance that we consumers feel that public service is necessary, that is, that we feel that the service we pay for, the democratic importance of an independent public service, should be worth paying for. The fierce competition that exists on the commercial side today cannot be stopped. That is why it is even more important that we politicians reach out with the message of why an independent source of news is incredibly important. This is particularly true in the context of the debate on news avoiders and filter bubbles, in which we are in the middle. I look forward to the continued work of the Committee and the debate that is taking place. I would also like to agree with what Olof Lavesson said about the fact that the additional directives are welcome. And even I think they might be on the last team. Madam President, I would like Our second reservation is about a new mission that we want to give to the public service companies. We want to see an extended and deeper collaboration on news reporting between the Nordic public service companies. One model could be that the Swedish Radio Administration Foundation, Sweden's Television and Education Radio, in collaboration with the Nordic Council and the three broadcasters, will develop guidelines for how public service companies' news desks can annually conduct reciprocal exchanges of news reports with the other Nordic countries. In this way, the different countries can share their strengths and reduce the risk of unilateral reporting. Our hope is that this measure can have a positive impact on other media news reporting and thus strengthen the credibility of the entire media sector. This would further strengthen the credibility of independent news reporting, given the ongoing debate on fake news. As I have already mentioned, it is of the utmost importance that public service reporting is factual and accurate and that data is checked in the cases notified to the Radio and Television Audit Board. We propose that, at least in the case of public service news and fact-finding, there should be a social body that consistently checks the facts in the case of a notification. The Swedish Democrats also propose that a review be carried out of the broadcasting permits of the public service companies, to look at how broadcasting time can be set aside for a program of corrections. The programme can also be an opportunity for public services to report in more detail on a programme or report that has received many notifications but where it has been shown that the public has not been justified. We want to make those additions so that citizens who watch SVT or listen to radio will once again have confidence in their reporting. Madam President, I would like It is, therefore, again a question of adding to the public service companies. So we want to develop their work, not put it down or anything else in that style, as many people like to think. I agree with both our reservations and with what Mr Aron called for initially in the debate, namely reservations 1 and 2.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1267	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Angelika Bengtsson for actually talking about the proposals made by the Swedish Democrats in the report. That was not much of that in the last speech by the Swedish Democrats. My question concerns the new financing model. Angelika Bengtsson speaks of a fee similar to the funeral fee. I understand that it is the main alternative of the Swedish Democrats. But I don't really understand why you put this reservation. How is this not already covered by the investigative directives? This is precisely the part already included in the directives that the investigation is discussing. I do not quite understand why this proposal has been chosen once more. It's breaking open doors. It is also said that the most important thing is that the fee should be adapted to the actual costs. Then I'll be a little confused. That is exactly what the Swedish Democrats said no to as late as when we dealt with the state's budget. There were proposals to adjust the radio and television fee to the actual costs. Angelika Bengtsson knows just as well as I do that the position on the radio account is declining. Within a few years, the State will have to provide guarantees on credit, precisely because the fee is not adapted to the actual costs. But when we make sure to adapt it so that it will work, the Swedish Democrats say no. Then it is no wonder that one hesitates about the ambitions of the Swedish democrats when it comes to public service. What's the big deal? What do the Swedish Democrats mean by adapting to the actual costs? And why do you say no to that when you have the chance to make such decisions?
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1272	Mr President, I would like to Our approach is, as I and Aron Emilsson have mentioned, a fee designed as the funeral fee. With our reservation, we are making this clear. However, we are also pragmatic, as I have mentioned in the Committee and as the reservation also states. If eight parties agree on a better solution, we will support it. With our reservation, we just want to make it clear that this is our approach. As far as the budget line is concerned, we also have a budget that we are voting on in the first place, and it is funded, so I can only refer to it.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1275	Mr President, I would like to As for whether or not the Swedish Democrats' budget is financed, we have had that debate, and we have had the same idea, so we do not need to raise that here today. You're having a hard time with your credibility. You say that you want a fee adapted to the actual costs. At the same time, you say no at the time when we really are adjusting the fee to the actual costs. What's the deal? Or have you changed so diametrically in just a few months? Then I would like to ask a question about the second reservation. You say that news reporting should be coordinated and that there should be an exchange with other Nordic countries, and that should guarantee both one and the other. News reports are primarily about scrutiny, that is, the most fundamental thing that public services have for their task. Public service should be absolutely free from both political and commercial pointers. The first thing that the Swedish Democrats do is to go in and dictate how news reporting should be organised, in what way it should happen, with who to do it and what is the purpose of it. That is exactly the area where we politicians should stay as far away as possible. In what way is it consistent, on the one hand, to claim to safeguard an independent public service by at the same time wanting to go in and dictate how to handle your news reporting? Again, what about adjusting the fee to actual costs? Have you changed your mind completely on this point?
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1282	Mr President, I would like to Our second reservation is that you should not end up in the same position as in Poland or Hungary, because it is a fear example. That's definitely not where we're going. We have been very clear about this, even if we want to be misunderstood. Cooperation with the Nordic countries is about having similar values. We want the exchange of knowledge. If you do not support the exchange of knowledge, then perhaps you should review your opinions and what you actually think and think. The positive effects of the knowledge that strengthens public service and where you know trust in public service and what is reported, we in the Nordic countries must learn from it. That is what reservation 2 is about. I can only regret that the other seven parties do not support this issue of knowledge sharing, which is incredibly important today when we talk about fake news and news averters. It is extremely important to have an independent source of news to go to and rely on. Again, in order not to end up in the same situation as in the horror examples of Poland and Hungary, we need exchanges of knowledge. As far as our budget and the actual costs are concerned, this is part of what the Committee will come up with. I have great confidence that it will come up with funding based on actual costs.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1287	Mr President, I would like to It is not possible to launch a judicial debate today without commenting on what was shown on the Cold Facts during yesterday's evening. It was about Järva in northern Stockholm, about women and vulnerability, about discrimination against girls in religious free schools and about the emergence of reactionary forces. The program showed strong scenes of a school bus where the children are segregated and the girls are to sit in the back. It was about Maria, who cannot walk with her dog on the Järva field due to harassment. It was about the recreation centre with a girl profile that was burned down. It was about my friend Zeliha, who has been trying for a long time to express that women are limited in the area, that male dominance in the public space is holding women back. It is no coincidence that insecurity or feelings of insecurity in these areas have increased. Long-term unemployment, poor school scores, recent shootings, drug trafficking and attacks on blue light personnel also contribute to women's particular insecurity and vulnerability. Mr President, I would like to Järva means a great deal to me; not least my colleagues in the committee can testify to that. I grew up in the west and have lived in Järva for many years. Since the area is usually described by people and an environment that does not live there, the picture is usually very one-sided. Few know that there is a nature reserve in the area or that Hästagården usually has cow emissions in June. Even less is it known that the city's biggest national day celebrations and Midsummer celebrations usually take place in Järva. In addition, housing is currently being built in Järva at a faster pace than in the days of the million-dollar programme. Every day two young people from unemployment go straight to work. These are good numbers that give hope. In the social debate Järva is usually referred to as a no go zone. It is, of course, against the background of an increase in juvenile crime and recent killings. Nevertheless, we need to properly describe the place where our citizens live. Not everything is black, and not everything is white either. However, two principles apply: The welfare of our country, access to the police and security, all citizens have a right to. And the crime, the harassment, the drugs and the weapons don't belong in Järva. They don't belong anywhere in our society. Mr President, I would like to This debate concerns the report of the Committee on Justice on criminal matters. Annually, this committee deals with up to 150 requests for exercise from the general period of exercise to recriminalise acts or tighten the penalties for acts that exist in our criminal code. Criminal law and the criminal code are the backbone of justice policy. It is we legislators who bear responsibility for the fact that the judiciary has the tools to prosecute and impose sanctions. But criminal law is also restrictive. Not everything can be solved with punitive measures and neo-criminalisation. For example, criminal law does not answer the question of what makes some young people turn into habitual offenders, while others do not. Nor can criminal law itself solve structural societal challenges for us. If we want to stop crime in areas like Järva, we need to take in and understand what the research says. Criminological research indicates that developed criminal behaviour takes place in interactions between biological, psychological and social factors. Personality characteristics, concrete behavioral patterns such as hyperactivity, learning difficulties and emotional problems affect as much as parents' inability to care and a trusting and secure relationship. But antisocial development can also be influenced by the socio-economic structure. It is not obvious that growing up in a socio-economically vulnerable residential area leads to becoming a criminal. After all, the vast majority of children who grow up in Järva do not become criminals, and we should be clear about that. But what has been shown is that the social composition and structure of the residential area can affect the risk of developing crime, but in different ways for people with different individual conditions. And that's exactly what it looks like in Järva. The youths come from homes with prolonged stress, with parents constantly fighting, where piles of bills have not been paid, where there are too many living in the cramped apartment. In addition, there are children who have emotional problems or other learning difficulties. It is usually these young people who do not pass school and who stay out late in the evening. They are welcomed to the metro, and there is no question of their presence. That's where you're actually welcome. Since time passes, and suddenly you have learned the language of the street. It is being recruited into what is organised crime of drug trafficking, which then becomes gang dealings, control over the area and attacks on the rest of society, which tries to do something about insecurity. Mr President, I would like to If we really want to stop recruiting for crime in these areas, we must act both repressively and structurally. The police and security guards need to get rid of the drug sales. Local analyses must be made of how we promote women's activities in public spaces. Parents need tools to be active parents. This presupposes that ill health and unemployment are combated, that overcrowding ends, that children go to a staff-tight and equal school and that we do not live as segregatedly as we do here in Stockholm. I am pleased that the government is working urgently on what is the way forward. In the area of criminal law, a great deal has happened in the last two years. International events and national crime, of course, affect the work of the committee. In the course of our term of office, we will decide on a new rape law based on voluntary participation, and we will be faced with a negligent crime. We will, to a greater extent, technologically neutralise the crimes and introduce criminalisation of the dissemination of privacy-implementing images – what is called revenge porn in the social debate. We will intensify crimes with honorary motives, raise the minimum penalty for serious crime and clear up what criminal measures are needed against the violence against bluelight personnel. I look forward to the joint work on these urgent issues. Having said that, however, I would like to maintain our reservations, but I will not be in favour of them.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1309	Mr President, I would like to In order not to forget that, I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation No 19. Let me thank Lawen Redar for a good introduction. She gave a good description of the problem, which I think most of us can agree with. It means that we need to take a variety of measures. In this it is that the Riksdag must also decide to take these measures. There is much talk, but we actually have a difficult situation. It is true that we are not solving everything within the framework of a criminal law report. We have many other reports that we also have to deal with, and we will now do so. One of these is about young offenders, which is coming soon. The police report will also be here soon. We know that the police will have to operate on credit if nothing happens in the coming weeks when the spring bill is due. Recently we had the Rinkeby riots, and at first the operation was regarded by the minister responsible as quite successful. Later, he's backed up and realized it wasn't good at all. We have let go in many different areas where society should be clear. Lawen Redar mentioned many of them. These are behaviours which are not considered acceptable, but which we have failed to accept for some strange reason, because this has never led to any consequences. Criminal justice is about consequences, what we think should be criminalised and what kind of punishment and punishment it should be. Mr President, I would like to We usually have rather polarised debates in this House. One side usually speaks against punishment and says that punishment is something bad. They claim that there is no evidence that punishment is good and leads to something better. However, they usually cannot lead to evidence that it would be the opposite. Above all, representatives of the extreme left and, to a large extent, the Green Party tend to be responsible for this. The Social Democrats are usually silent but have in fact joined the same line. Some of us tend to argue that criminal law in some parts is distorted in terms of the penalty actually imposed. We have often said that the scales of punishment are pretty good, but when people find out what the penalty is for aggravated assault, they get upset. We have had this debate for many years. We have also made a variety of decisions here in Parliament to improve the situation, especially in the case of serious violent crimes. Politics is being delivered today, but I would still like to see even more policy delivered. The Committee on Justice will have delivered over 80 announcements to the government tomorrow. It is a way of supporting a government that is otherwise relatively passive. The policy that the government has delivered so far is partly based on old evidence from investigations set up by the previous government. Now, however, these investigations are starting to fail. Nevertheless, I hope that the government can continue to keep pace. The government also delivers after the Riksdag has told it to do so. This applies to certain areas, but far from all. We in committee will have reason to talk about this when we are going to deal with letter 75, in which the government reports on the measures it has taken. We in the Committee on Justice believe that we must take responsibility. We have to lie on and help to solve difficult problems. That is why we have eight announcements today, which we shall vote on tomorrow. Some are about things that have already begun, and we are well aware of that. One of the announcements is about murder. We're saying life should be normal punishment after a murder. We are well aware that this is currently being investigated, but we have realised that we in Parliament must be clear enough. An investigation is not necessarily the result of a decision. We were very convinced not least after the special debate that was held here a few weeks ago. One member representing the government parties considered such a policy to be superficial. This indicates that there is a proper and clear crack in the government base. It also means that we can not only rely on the government to deliver. The Parliament must therefore be clear with its opinion against both investigators and government, and that is why we stand up in this case. It is more a question of a lack of clarity in the signals that you government representatives are sending out. We have a similar example. It is about sexual crimes and above all about negligence, which is important. Well, we're aware that we have a united sex crime investigation, and we're behind it. However, we cannot trust that what is about criminal law will be delivered, and that is why we stand by ourselves. The same applies to the criminal protection of bluelight personnel. Yes, we are aware of what the directives look like. However, in a report that we will be discussing tomorrow, we will not stand up for ourselves, because we do not think it is necessary there. But today it is a question of criminal law protection and criminalisation, and then we do not dare to trust that this is being delivered. That's why we're standing up. These were three announcements, Mr President. We are not content there, because there are other reasons for moving on. It's about offensive photography. Right now, there's a case up and going to the Supreme Court. Among other things, we Moderates have mentioned this in our exercise. The justice system hasn't decided the case yet. It's about a man who in an escalator has filmed under a woman's skirt. So far, this has not led to a conviction, but the case will be examined in the Supreme Court. We respect the need to await the judgment in this particular case. However, there is another case in which a man has been proposed after trying to film a woman in a test cabin. He was acquitted because the woman discovered the attack. There, then, practice is now clear. To our surprise, we note that the majority parties apparently feel that such behaviour is okay. We don't think so, so that's why we're making our announcement. We also have an announcement of gross sexual harassment. There's a problem here. Even if we review rape legislation, there will always be cases with difficulties in proof. It will not be possible to establish that it has been a matter of rape, but more of sexual harassment. However, there is a rather large gap in the determination of the criminal value between rape and sexual harassment, especially when the harassment is in the vicinity of the rape act. That is why we believe that a new heading is needed: gross sexual harassment. The penalty shall be between nine months and three years. This became the case after the summer festivals last year, and we realised that we need to review the legislation, not least in order to protect young women. We also have an announcement on penalties. Perhaps you should go further away from how you reasoned in the 1960s. In a Western legal system, I am responsible for my actions. So I am not to be judged or judged because I belong to a group, a gender, a profession or another company. I have my own individual responsibility. Therefore, the act must be assessed to a greater extent, rather than the identity I have. It is not identity that should be punished, but the act that has actually been carried out. We have an announcement to make even about this. As far as this is concerned, the majority say that the rules are considered to be balanced. But now I understand that it is becoming increasingly difficult to be a social democrat. Today at 10 a.m. The Prime Minister said that it is now high time we reviewed the penalty rebates. I am thinking about how you will stand on this point, not least in the forthcoming reports that we are going to debate in a few weeks' time and not least in the case of young offenders. In fact, the Prime Minister has said that you are wrong. Do you think the Prime Minister is superficial? We are moving forward on access bans. We see a big problem with being a notorious thief – some call it a shoplifter – stealing, for example, 19 pork fillets or whatever it is and still being allowed to come back to the same store and keep stealing. It's a misery for the poor dealer who's supposed to stand for it, and the police never show up. Here we want to review the possibility of a ban on access. The majority does not want that. But I must say that you have one of the weakest arguments against. You don't think anything. You're just saying that the investigation didn't think so. Don't you have any opinion on the matter? We have seen a major problem with paedophiles and people who are generally harassing younger people, especially women, in swimming pools. Here we want to introduce a ban on access. Then the majority say that you are not at all interested in it. The answer from the majority is that the Minister is following the question. Then I wonder: How? Is it on Twitter? There is an incredible reluctance to do anything about the problems. I realise, Mr President, that time is running out. There is much more to be said about this. But one thing that is important is that we continue – as the Prime Minister says – to look at the penalty rebates and not least at different types of mitigating circumstances. It is very important that we begin to look at what is still called cheapness in the criminal code, but which should actually be called a penalty. That is why I am also in favour of this reservation. We realise that it is good that we have been tedious during this time, because now even one or two party leaders, namely the Social Democrats, are beginning to understand that we have been right all along.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1333	Mr President, I would like to I thank Krister Hammarbergh for his speech. Some questions came to us Social Democrats. I intend to highlight what concerns the assessment of the penalty value and the announcement by the majority of committees, which does not involve us; we do not agree. What the Prime Minister has said today is about the penalty investigation that was presented in 2012. It made it clear that what needs to be supplemented is how to assess the age of 18 to 20-year-olds. We believe, like the Sanctions Committee, that other assessments should be made there. This category of people needs to have the same kind of sanctions as the other adults. When Krister Hammarbergh thinks that this has been pointed out by the Moderates for a long time, I have to ask a question. The report of the investigation was presented in May 2012. So they had two years to act, which they did not. Now we are trying to throw this at us. This is not true. We are now acting in a government position and trying to address the issue. It is not the same thing as what you are trying to express today. Your announcement is about the general penalty assessment. It does not concern young offenders. Does Krister Hammarbergh have an answer to how you think here?
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1336	Mr President, I would like to In the reference group to the Sanctions Investigation – there was a single investigator, the President of Svea Court of Appeal – this was discussed very much, as well as many other parts. But there was finally an unwillingness to review the so-called penalty rebate for young offenders. What the Prime Minister is doing now is taking a step in a direction that we Moderates have always wanted to go in. But now I'm also going to admit that this reigning thing is a difficult art when you're a lot of parties. In the past, we have not been in complete agreement on this issue. But it's not unknown. It's the same problem you're having right now. The difference is that you are constantly arguing against this. Then this kick-off comes up at 10 a.m. 4. I can say that these are not arguments taken out of the Sanctions Committee, but the Prime Minister has been out in the country. He's been doing a tour of Nordstan. Then he has found out that we must make sure to change the so-called penalty rebates. The police must be given more opportunity to get these young people off the street so that they can be treated instead. That's what he's actually saying. It was a nice explanation from Lawen Redar, but it's not quite true.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1339	Mr President, I would like to This report is about criminal law, isn't it? What we have and the announcement from the Moderates and others are about the general judgment of the Penalty Court. The 2012 Sanctions Survey states: This is what is clear from the Sanctions Investigation. In fact, the Sanctions Committee refers to the report on young offenders. Anyone who does not speak correctly right now is actually Krister Hammarbergh. In fact, the big question is not whether or not this is to be implemented, because the Prime Minister has declared it. The big question is, in fact, the mixing of both reports. We are now targeting young people who have received a completely different sanction from that stated by the Sanctions Investigation. Today, we believe that this is a major problem in society and try to do something about it. That's the answer to the question. We have completely different opinions, but I think that Krister Hammarbergh needs to look at what he is proposing.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1341	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we have proposed this for a long time. Now Stefan Löfven has come along and suggested it as well. I think Lawen Redar is a good debater and a good politician. I could be really mean right now, but I shouldn't be. In fact, I could refer to the texts that will be discussed tomorrow in committee. There you have complete reservations. But I'm not gonna be that stupid.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1343	Mr President, I would like to We are in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I will limit my claims and request approval only to reservations 2 and 25. We are debating the Committee on Justice's report on Criminal matters. There are several reasons why I am in an unusually good mood, namely eight reasons. There are thus eight announcements that the Swedish Democrats have contributed to, and they cheer up a little to varying degrees. The best of them is probably the announcement of a life sentence for murder. There we have a reservation from the government parties and the Left Party, and the Left Party states in its special opinion that they basically want to abolish the life sentence. Now the Left Party does not get what they want, and that in itself is part of the joy, but it is also gratifying that we are strengthening justice through tougher penalties for serious crimes. It is very good, not least from a victim's perspective. The Swedish Democrats are happy to contribute to the fact that life sentence should be more the rule than the exception of a crime such as murder. The Swedish Democrats also have their own reservation regarding the penalty for murder. There we propose a substantial tightening up from today's scale, which, in addition to the possibility of life span, goes between 10 and 18 years. We propose a scale that starts in 18 years and goes up to 40 years with the possibility of life. That reservation is not supported by any other party. With other announcements, the situation is similar. They lead to tightening up and greater opportunities for society to act, but in some cases the Swedish Democrats have more far-reaching proposals and other ideas that currently lack the support of several other parties. For the sake of clarity, the fact that we are involved in various announcements should not be interpreted as meaning that the Swedish Democrats have changed their position. It's just that we accept the little influence that we have through our wavemaster position. When there are proposals where we have the opportunity to decide, we do so rather than allow the Left Party to influence the proposals. Mr President, I would like to We are also dealing with the issue of penalty rebates in this report, specifically through the Swedish Democrats' reservation 16. That exercise has been divided so that the penalty rebates for people aged 18 to 21, which we heard a little about here before, are dealt with in another report. We have reason to comment on this at a later date. This report highlights, among other things, the fact that, in some cases, perpetrators can commit a great many crimes and then only receive a penalty corresponding to one of the offences. We want in more cases to be able to add the penalty value for different crimes on each other so that it will not pay for an offender to commit a lot of crimes before an indictment is instituted. I note that there is a very cool interest from all other parties in supporting our reservation in this case. We also raise the issue of co-action in the report. There are far too many cases where several people who together and by common accord commit a crime can escape punishment by blaming each other, for example. One recent example that has upset a great many was a five - month - old baby killed by her parents at an asylum home in Värmland. The baby came into the Central Hospital in Karlstad unconscious with such severe head injuries that the child's life could not be saved. Both the mother and the father were arrested, and it was noted that both parents had been in the room while the child was subjected to the severe and serious violence. In this case, the case did not lead to a trial because the suspected parents blamed each other. After their arrest, the two parents now receive compensation of about SEK 160 000 each. So none of them will be convicted of any crime, but they will go free. There are, of course, far more cases where the common guilt in the event of a crime is more clear and where the accused have escaped punishment because it has not been possible to investigate exactly who has done what. The Lindome case in the 1990s is another case that has been highlighted among several. We need to get to this problem. We therefore want to investigate more closely how we can strengthen the possibility of using the law to frame persons involved for criminal acts, even if it is not possible to determine exactly who has done what. However, there seems to be a cool interest among you in other parties to support this reservation as well. We also propose in the report that the scale of penalties for travel for terrorist purposes should be tightened up. What we are also alone in is that we also want it to be criminalised with terrorist trips to a country of citizenship, i.e. the cases where terrorists, for example, have both Swedish and Syrian citizenship and carry out a terrorist journey from Sweden to Syria. But the rest of you, for some reason, think that it is a bit harsh to make terrorist travel to a country of citizenship a criminal offence. Once again, you are facilitating the lives of terrorists through loopholes in the legislation. It is a bit sad that the government rarely takes two steps forward without immediately taking at least one step back. Mr President, I would like to Of course, far more far-reaching measures are needed to genuinely combat and disrupt terrorism. The good will of the government in all honour, but a fantastic job in the municipalities de-radicalising terrorists, which then turns out to be an invention, is unfortunately not exactly satisfactory. In addition to proposing the withdrawal of citizenship for IS terrorists and life-time expulsions, the report also proposes banning propaganda for terrorism. In order to get more people with clear terrorist sympathies and to take the necessary measures, we need to increase the criminalisation of various acts aimed at supporting or promoting terrorism. I note that we are also in favour of this reservation alone in wanting to ban the spread of terrorist propaganda. In conclusion, we can say that the Swedish Democrats continue to provide a guarantee of penalties. We are proposing many new proposals where today's legislation does not work satisfactorily. We act responsibly by contributing to various announcements. Nevertheless, the contrast was most evident in this report with regard to our announcement of the life sentence for murder, where we want to see more life sentences imposed and the Left Party wants to abolish the life sentence. I am pleased, Mr President, that it is the Swedish Democrats who decide the outcome of this matter and not the Left Party.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1360	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Committee on Legal Affairs' report on criminal matters, which deals with motions from the general period of exercise. In my speech, I thought, above all, to focus on the issue of sexual crimes, where the majority of the committee proposes two announcements to the government. I myself was a member of the sex crime committee which, after several decades of discussion, has happily proposed a consent law which both the Minister of Justice and the Swedish Prime Minister have promised to be presented to Parliament as a bill. A consent law means that a person who has sex with someone who does not participate voluntarily can be convicted of rape, or whatever it might be called in the future. Today is not the case. Today, in addition to having sex with someone who does not want to participate, there is a need for violence, threats or exploitation of a particularly vulnerable situation. I find it unacceptable in a society that should stand up for each person's – and, to be honest, the woman's – right to her own sexual integrity. We have an untimely piece of legislation that the Moderates have long held close to and defended year after year. I am now pleased, Mr President, that the Moderates have also joined the only reasonable view, namely that sex with someone who has not participated voluntarily and has expressed it should be criminalised, and not just as a sexual harassment punished with fines. This legislation will be presented in the course of its term of office together with proposals for a negligent crime. It will improve the situation in cases where someone has seriously abused their power against another person but where the courts today do not believe that it can be proved that the person really understood it. These may be cases where the offender claims not to have understood that the victim was sleeping or situations where the offender has not understood that the person who shouts no really means no. Here, too, I am very glad that we have a united parliament ahead of us. In any case, there was agreement within the Committee which tabled the proposal. In today's announcement on rape, I am not so sure what is really meant. This is what the Moderates say: When it comes to rape, legislation should be introduced that is more clearly based on voluntary participation than it is today. Mr President, I would like to Since today's legislation is not based at all on voluntary participation, I still have to ask: what is meant by the wording a little more clearly than today? Is Krister Hammarbergh from the Moderates not aware that today's legislation is based on props about violence, threats or exploitation of particularly vulnerable situations? Mr President, I would like to I am concerned that this is a way for the Moderates in the Committee on Justice to reverse the position they have had until very recently, namely that there is no need for legislation that protects the individual's right to his or her sexual integrity entirely. I would also like to comment on the issue of gross sexual harassment. In the light of the Sexual Crimes Committee's solid report with proposals for a consent law, negligence crimes and a series of changes that mean that we no longer make a distinction between sexual crimes that have been physically committed between two people who are in the same room and sexual crimes that have been committed, for example, via the Internet, I do not understand that one has now come up with going in and adding one more thing, something that has not been talked about when we did this very broad review. True, it is possible that such a crime would be needed – it would probably play a role above all if we did not implement the consent law and a negligent crime. However, as we now have quite a radical change in sight, I do not see that it is a good idea at this moment to approve this announcement. Mr President, I would like to I will briefly also touch on some of the other announcements more comprehensively. It is the case that the Green Party and the Social Democrats, who sit in the government, rule primarily through decisions in the government. We deliver proposal after proposal, budget after budget, where we improve the conditions to fight crime and the causes of crime. We are also correcting a couple of laws in which the previous government failed to achieve what it wanted to achieve, including on the issue of the life sentence for murder, where the Moderates simply came forward with legislation that did not work, according to the Supreme Court. Since the government has, in its great wisdom, taken action in many different areas, we do not see any reason to make any announcements from the Riksdag. Unlike Krister Hammarbergh, I have great confidence that when the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister say that they will implement consent legislation, or whatever it may be, they will deliver – just as the government has done so far. Mr President, I would like to Although I support all of our reservations, I would like to spare the House the long time it would take to vote on them, so I am abstaining from calling for their approval in today's debate.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1374	Mr President, I would like to It must be hard to stand and argue against every announcement. There are quite a few at this point, in this particular committee, year after year. Then when the government has to do so because of announcements, you have to go in and defend the same things. I understand that you feel torn. The question is, therefore, who really wants to get away from the subject. I see that there are obviously major problems. One cannot claim that we are trying to get away when we want to deal with sexual crimes and get more convictions by pressing an announcement that means tightening up the legislation. That's a rather strange reasoning. After all, the announcement means that we should tighten up the legislation, not the opposite. It is Annika Hirvonen Falk who strives against in this case. Then it is de facto that although the investigation has now done a fantastic job, it is still just an investigation. It takes some action, too. It takes a bill. It takes something to treat. However, as I began my speech by saying, there is uncertainty on the part of the parties involved in the government as to the will to actually come forward with proposals. Will you do that? If you are not going to have completely different views, we think that is a good thing. However, we feel a great deal of uncertainty not least after the debate in which Annika Hirvonen Falk participated a few weeks ago, since there was clearly a difference between the government parties.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1378	Mr President, I would like to Initially, I have to ask Krister Hammarbergh what proposals the government has announced but he is so worried that the government will not proceed with. There have been no such proposals either in this debate or in previous debates, so that issue kind of hangs a little bit in the air. I still have no answer to what the Moderates mean by the fact that sex crime legislation should be based more clearly than today on voluntary participation. Sex crime legislation today is not based on voluntary participation at all. In fact, the question to Krister Hammarbergh is: Does Krister Hammarbergh still support the proposal for new sexual crime legislation that a united committee submitted to the government? That is, above all, what is very important to know. Is it that way I am very happy, but since the Moderates have been so strongly against this and this formulation is still a bit faltering to the question to be asked.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1381	Mr President, I would like to Now I'll try to be educational. The Moderates are behind the announcement, but we are not alone. We also have the Center Party, Liberals, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats behind this. This means tightening up, that the government will come back and implement these proposals. Not the opposite. What points am I concerned about? I mentioned them in my speech, and for time to come I refer to the Minutes. But it was about murder, blue-light personnel and this subject, where we are concerned that it will not be delivered. It was the three of them. The other parts are new politics, which I now assume Annika Hirvonen Falk will also press for the government to implement a as soon as possible so that we do not have to criticise the government's having dragged its legs.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1385	Mr President, I would like to Surely we have different doubts about each other. To be honest, I shall say that I have no doubt whatsoever that the Center Party, Liberals or Christian Democrats are behind a consent law because they were very clear throughout the entire work of the Sexual Crime Committee, while the representatives of the Moderates were essentially striving towards right up to the finish line. I am pleased to have made it clear that we continue to have a consensus on the draft assent legislation that has been submitted to the Government and that – I repeat – both the Minister for Justice and the Prime Minister have declared that they will proceed with it. As with that proposal, unlike Krister Hammarbergh, I have full confidence that the government will deliver in all the areas where it has also been promised.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1388	Mr President, I would like to A few years ago, I visited Ica in Sergels torg. I have been in the shop many times before. It is good for everyone who rides the subway, and they have a high level of service and generous opening hours. Now it was not the purpose this time to buy a lunch sandwich or shop with something home, but it was to meet Per, who runs the store, to talk about his and the staff's security situation. Most people understand that Sergel's square is an exposed location. It is a place that since it was built has been plagued by insecurity in various forms. As I grew up, Plattan, as it was called, was the place most associated with drug trafficking, and it was there that I saw for the first time people who were in severe social vulnerability. A few years ago they rebuilt the part of the square that forms the entrance to the subway, and then they did a lot right. Mr President, there is an enormous amount that we can do to prevent crime when planning our cities. From a prevention debate that has been very much about the perpetrator, we have over the years moved some of this focus to looking at the purely practical prevention, i.e. how we can build away the possibility of committing crimes. The opportunity makes the thief, it's usually called, and according to the research, it's actually in many ways just that. Dark pretenses, the lack of people who can see and, if necessary, sound alarms, poor lighting and other such things create opportunities to commit crimes for those who intend to do so. Since Sergel's square was rebuilt, security has increased significantly. Better lighting and removed corners are part, and another is to make sure that there is a stream of, in the absence of better words, ordinary people passing by. Flows of people with purposes other than committing crime reduce crime. When I talk to center parties around our municipalities, inventiveness is great in this area. For example, it is important to ensure that the number of different luminaires for street lighting in the municipality is as small as possible so that it is not unnecessarily difficult to produce spare parts when a lamp has broken. Another center party has told us about a place where there were molestations and robberies. There a new hundred yards were laid. Since its arrival, no such incidents had been reported. Another way to change the composition and increase the advantage of the security-creating majority is to plan for trade and entrepreneurship. I think that Ica in Sergel's square is of great importance because the whole place has become more secure – precisely for these reasons. But then all of us who benefit from this search for security must do what we can to ensure that some of the anti-crime crime does not end up in the shop instead of the way it used to be outside. Firstly, Mr President, it is our moral duty. The main task of the state is to protect its inhabitants from internal and external threats, and this also applies, of course, to those entrepreneurs who take great risks in order not only to be able to offer the public a valuable business service but also in their capacity as job creators are often the first step into the labour market for many people. Second, it's smart. We do well to protect these entrepreneurs, who, through their presence, also become a security-building force in the local community. When I visit Per, who runs Ica in Sergel's square, one thing becomes clear. We in society are not fulfilling our part of this serious duty. Every day Per and his staff are subjected to thefts, disorder and a lot of discomfort. No society can completely build away all insecurity, but the enormous amount of work that is being done to try to counter the few that represent most of the problems should be devoted to other things. The stores report as many thefts as they can, but these crimes are hardly ever investigated. They are all too small for the police in their strained situation to be able to prosecute them. But then let us focus on the main sources of these security problems. I am very pleased that the committee supports my proposal for a ban on access to shops for those who have repeated and seriously misbehaved in a business premises. Access bans should be possible after judicial review, and offences against them should give rise to penalties equivalent to offences against other restraining orders. An access ban does not solve all the problems, but it gives an important signal that society takes Per's and his staff's security seriously. It's not okay to week-out and week-in go into a store and steal things. Point! Mr President, I would like to In these contexts, I always point out that the long-term development of security is mainly positive. It is important to have a balanced picture, and it is essential that we focus on the subset of the security challenge that is most pressing. While the long-term trend in most areas is improving, it is at the same time a few areas that are going in the wrong direction. Gang violence is such a part, and we will probably have reason to discuss it for a long time to come. Once a criminal structure has a foothold in a part of society, it takes a long time to break it back. A few points in this report are partly met with this type of crime. The punishment for murder is an example, and perhaps the committee's position on the violence against bluelight personnel and the increased protection of criminal law that we now want to give them can also be seen as meeting gang crime. Another worrying development is sexual crimes. In order to better combat these, this report contains a number of announcements. Just as the person who repeated and seriously misbehaved in a store should be subject to a ban on access, anyone who cannot keep himself from committing criminal acts in the form of harassment and worse in a swimming pool should be excluded. We also want to introduce a new crime, namely a serious offence for sexual harassment, in which the victim is placed in a particularly vulnerable situation through various circumstances. The committee also takes a clear stand in favour of a consent law and that a negligence principle should be included in sex crime legislation. Now, apparently, such legislation is on the way, but until we have it in place, there is no reason to reduce political pressure. Mr President, I would like to As far as criminal law is concerned, the report becomes broad, and every area we deal with in the report deserves a debate of our own. It feels, unfortunately, to say that the issue of terror and how best to fight terrorists will be with us for the foreseeable future. I would briefly like to mention some of the proposals prepared in this report which may have a bearing on the fight against terrorism. No one in this House thinks that terrorism in any way would be excusable, and we have all made various suggestions as to how best to combat it. With regard to the so-called terrorist war travellers, those who have travelled to commit acts of terror and war crimes for a UN or EU terrorist organisation, we have problems. The best thing is if those who come back and who can be bound to serious crimes can be prosecuted. We have control of these potentially dangerous people in prison, and their return to law-abiding living can at best take a reasonable course. At the same time, many of the crimes actually committed during a war of terror are hard to prove. It is simply not easy to prove exactly who has done what in the enormous amount of violence that has taken place. There is no functioning rule of law on the other side that can help. Technical evidence may exist, but in that case it is probably more a matter of luck than anything else. In some cases, IT forensic evidence may be helpful, but reliable witness data is often lacking. Partly therefore, for practical reasons, but also for legal moral reasons, anyone who can be shown to have been associated with a terrorist-listed organisation should have been convicted of crime. We broadly agree on this in the Alliance, but we have had our own wordings that could not be merged in this report. But in principle we agree, so trust that we will come back with a united line on this. I agree with all the reservations, but I am so very happy with the announcements that we are going to get through. I think that the announcement of a ban on access to shops is so important that I do not intend to endorse anything else.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1409	Mr President, I would like to In a debate on penalties, however, we should remind ourselves of how criminal law works in Sweden. The penalty shall be related to the seriousness of the offence, while at the same time penalising similar offences. Looking back in history, no country has been able to deter people from committing crimes simply by using the punishment as a deterrent. In Sweden we do not lock people up because they can be dangerous but because a serious crime has been committed. Nor has the prison sentence been used in Sweden as a deterrent to not committing a crime, but to condemn the punishment that is appropriate to the crime that has been committed. It has proved time and again that imprisonment is not a deterrent, since some 60 percent of those in prison relapse into crime. The Prison Service believes that the purpose of a prison sentence is to give the client treatment and care and that the stay at the prison should be designed so that the person can best return to society. This might be good to remember. The belief that criminalisation and bans reduce crime is the closest thing to consensus in this Chamber. There are both lawyers and judges and police officers on the Justice Committee. It is therefore regrettable that no more experience, knowledge and research is taken on board, but instead it creates its policy on symbolic issues and a biblical eye-to-eye-and-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to. But the Alliance can only think of one thought, namely, that it is the punishment that should discourage. Reintegration and what actually also reduces crime are not as interesting. We can see this, for example, from the number of movements in criminal law compared with the number of those dealing with prison care. It is also evident in the small amount of time that bourgeois parties spend on socially preventing crime. I wonder if that is what the Moderates think we are debating today, namely crime prevention, when it is actually criminal law we are dealing with. Because if that were the case, the Moderates should spend virtually all their time getting rid of the class divides. There are huge income differentials that create part of crime. It is in socio-economically vulnerable areas that both perpetrators and victims live, and that is where the shootings and other crimes take place to some extent today. That is why many are worried and afraid. To some extent, this may be curbed by the length of the sentence. Longer penalties for illegal possession of arms and stricter arms legislation overall can have some good effect. But it is only a tiny part of how to prevent crime. The big part is to build homes, have a good school and actually give everyone the freedom to create their own life. That policy does not have the Moderates at all. Instead, they give priority to tax cuts so that welfare is given less resources to spend on school and housing. The Left Party, on the other hand, wants to reduce income inequality. We want to invest in a strong well-being because we know that it is crime prevention instead of simply wanting to tighten the penalties, which is a somewhat visionless way of pursuing one's policy. Very well, Mr President. If there is anything I have been going on about in this House, it is that we need consent legislation. This is an issue that the Left Party has been pushing for many years. The government has announced that the legislation will come in 2017, and I am so delighted about it. It's gonna be so good. I would also like to welcome those who crampedly try to call themselves the Alliance into the feminist struggle. You are really trying to make an announcement about consent legislation, something that we on the red-green side have been pushing for a long time, but you are not really succeeding. You don't want to call it consent. But this is good. We must have consent legislation, because we must have consent. We must fight to implement the law together with the Minister of Justice in 2017. If you're trying to hold some kind of alliance together, why are you so afraid to call it consent? You don't even dare take the floor in your mouth here. You're so damn sure about it today. You make eight announcements, and you will be so proud when you make a compilation of how many announcements you have made. You think murder should always lead to life even though it goes against both legal tradition and the way the courts actually judge. There you can be very clear, but on the issue of consent you seem to find it difficult to push hard. Why? What are you afraid of? Dare to be feminist!
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1420	Mr President, I would like to Just over a week ago, we debated social security measures. Then we were accused by the Green Party of being too superficial. Tonight we are exposed to the rhetoric of the Left Party, which I think is disrespectful, Mr President. Here we are putting forward motions and proposals in a constructive spirit, only to be ridiculed in this House. That is totally unacceptable! With regard to the report on criminal law, it is true that we have a number of announcements. These are questions that we have put forward for several years, some of us. In some cases we in the parties have approached each other. That is what results in policy development and that we can take new positions. Among other things, the Liberals have put forward a proposal within the party to review the penalty rebate for young people, which we will return to. With regard to other proposals such as honour-related violence and those crimes, which we have highlighted for many years, the motion that we have put forward in the report is dismissed – including the fact that on 9 March the government went out and said something about now going to look at the issue of honour violence. But the Liberals put forward that motion on 3 October 2016. Either we have a serious debate on these political proposals with a focus on the substance, or we sit down and dismiss each other. I do not think that the latter belongs here in Parliament, Mr President. With regard to the proposals on which we are going to take a position, I will address, among other things, the issue of blue-light personnel. It is a recurring issue, where the government has devoted a great deal of time to rhetorical but less and less time to concrete proposals. In this area, too, I note that the S, V, and the MP reserve their rights against the claims of the Alliance and the SD, for which we have received a majority, to strengthen the criminal protection of bluelight personnel – police, ambulance personnel and emergency services. Why, Mr President, is it important to point this out in this debate? A year ago, several of the vulnerable areas were affected by attacks on blue light personnel. The government called a press conference and said this is unacceptable. Until Almedalsveckan, nothing happened. Then the government called a press conference again to announce that Ibrahim Baylan, co-ordinating minister, will be working on the issue. Then the government called another press conference in December, almost a whole year after the bluelight operations were subjected to attacks in the affected areas, to announce that an investigation is being set up. Why are we anxious to pursue this matter with regard to threats to officials and violence against officials? Well, it's because the investigation period runs until June 2018. It is therefore only after the next election that we may be able to get a bill, a bill, to the Swedish parliament from the government that will take office in autumn 2018 – a bill with entry into force in 2019. I think it's irresponsible. It can be read in Sydsvenskan from May that the Prime Minister presented a ten-point reform, and absolutely at the top of that list were measures to tackle attacks on blue light personnel. That is why we are forced to press the government ahead of us and once again demand an answer as to whether something can be broken out of this investigation, whether we can increase the penalties within certain parts or whether we will have to wait until 1 January 2019 before we can act. I think, for the Liberals at least, that it takes far too long. The second reservation to which we are going to ask for our assent, our Amendment No 36, concerns dealings with terrorist organisations. There too, the government has acted in a way that unfortunately creates the risk that more people returning from the Islamic State and other areas of conflict, who have supported terrorism and worked in the name of terrorism, will escape. We have no retroactivity in Sweden. As early as September, we called for certain measures to be brought forward for terrorism in terms of both punishment and other criminalisation. We have said that we would like to see new conversations. Nothing's happened. The government has divided the terrorist voyages and the second issue of conflict and association. The Liberals have proposed that the paragraph should be broadened to apply not only in connection with conflict but all other relations around and in connection with being present and helping to convey the message of the Islamic State or even to carry out the actions of the IS. We therefore have a specific motion, which goes further. That's why we're behind it.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1437	Mr President, I would like to I suggest Roger Haddad read our reservations about, among other things, blue light personnel. It clearly shows us that we have reservations because we have confidence that the government will deliver in accordance with what has been promised in all the contexts that Roger Haddad listed. An investigation is now working, and we heard earlier Roger Haddad's colleague Krister Hammarbergh explain why you have confidence that this investigation will present good proposals that the government can pass on to the issue of disrupting rescue operations. I would also like to point out the pleasure of the fact that we have actually received a conviction with eight months in prison for stoning against the police. So, even today, there are conditions to judge, and this is done whenever possible. On the other hand, like the Liberals, we see that there is a need to review the legislation on protection as a whole. It usually takes some time, as it usually does in Sweden with legislation. If the previous government had taken up this issue, this might already have been in place, but the previous government did not. The same applies, moreover, to the law on terrorism. When this government with the Green Party and the Social Democrats took office, no work had been started on, for example, terrorist travel, despite the fact that the former Prime Minister raised the issue. That legislation came into place at record speed, and further elements are being prepared in the Government Office. In addition, we have set up an investigation to review the whole of the terrorism legislation because so few are convicted and the legislation is a patchwork.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1443	Mr President, I would like to We want to go further when it comes to preparing for terrorist trips. The government has said no; they have called for our proposals to be rejected, both last year and this time. But now the EU has adopted directives which say that the decisions taken by Sweden and other EU countries are not sufficient. When I have asked questions to the Government and your government representatives, they have said that the EU directive will not mean any more initiatives on the part of Sweden. I believe that this is a hasty statement, and I very much hope that you will back down on this point too. Whether it is a case of terrorist offences or trips, which we have been exercising about, we believe that a few more could be stopped and prosecuted in the earlier stages. When it comes to blue lights, however, I would like to ask Annika Hirvonen Falk a question in the light of the situation we have with insecurity and police officers who do not have the capacity to be in the particularly vulnerable and vulnerable areas, but rather put a lot of gunpowder on murder investigations and have to prioritise away a lot more. Your coalition collegues in the government have repeatedly said that this is very serious and that we have to do something about it. Every day I can read statements. The question to Annika Hirvonen Falk is then: Is it reasonable that it should take three years before you can get a penalty? Why do you not raise to at least six months in prison, for example, even for the normal level of threats or violence against officials? It doesn't have to be investigated for three years. Or do you think so?
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1447	Mr President, I would like to We have increased the police presence in the particularly vulnerable areas. This has been done in broad agreement with all parties that have been the driving force for the reorganisation of the police which aims to bring more police officers closer to the citizens. What has been given the highest priority is precisely the presence of the police in the particularly vulnerable areas, because it is necessary. It has also been stressed that yesterday's discussion after the Cold Facts is very clear: there is a great need in some areas. So it's not true that there have been fewer police there. My view is that, if proper legislation is to be put in place, it should not be decided in advance, before an investigation has presented its proposals, which is the best solution. If we thought it was just a matter of tightening the penalties for violence against officials, it would have been another investigation. But the fact is that this is probably not a good enough solution – not if we also want to include, for example, staff whose only task is to provide care, as ambulance staff, which is also being exposed. Then it is not enough simply to go into the rules on violence and threats to officials. I don't know what's the most reasonable time for an investigation. We must trust the experts there. The most important thing, Roger Haddad, is that we get legislation in place that works. When it comes to terrorism, it has been heated, with many different decisions to be implemented. It has become a patchwork, and we see the result: Few can actually be convicted of these crimes. A more solid holistic approach is therefore needed.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1451	Mr President, I would like to I think the Green Party's argument is limping. A few months ago, the Liberals presented a committee initiative in the Civil Committee on forced marriages linked to family law. The next day, the government called the Alliance to settle. So obviously you don't have to investigate everything for two or three years – right, Annika Hirvonen Falk? I have not received an answer to the question why, if it is so urgent to prevent violations of socially important functions such as ambulances, police and rescue services, it should take three years. You will sit a full term of office without delivering a single penalty for the attacks that you so strongly distance yourself from in the media. But it won't last. Finally, Mr President, with regard to the number of police officers, there have been fewer police officers and fewer police officers in external service during your government, and they have come further from the citizens. I'm right, and you're wrong. In addition, the Police Authority has only picked from other parts of Stockholm County and other regions to send out people in Rinkeby, Tensta and Husby. There's a big homework to do, because you certainly haven't delivered any more cops.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1455	Mr President, I would like to I was a little inspired to debate the police when I heard the line shift just before my speech. What if every time the government says that there are more policemen, there are also more policemen – that it was like a mantra that was self-fulfilling? It's the other way around. When you travel with the police around the country on a passport, you see it yourself: There are fewer police officers in external service. There is a shortage of resources; the police organisation must have a substantial increase in resources. I believe that we will have reason to come back to this House in more debates. Today we are debating the report on criminal matters. We Christian Democrats support the announcements contained in the report. We also support the alliance-wide reservations that several of my excellent colleagues in the Alliance have preferred and highlighted in this debate. One of the announcements, Mr President, concerns the penalties for crimes against persons. We believe that the penalties should be based to a greater extent than they are today on the criminal offence's punitive value, rather than on the age of the criminal or other circumstances attached to him or her. From a victim's point of view, the punishment is, to some extent, a measure of how seriously society views the violation it has been subjected to. The size of the sentence therefore has an impact on the victim's sense of redress. I am pleased that the committee agrees with my motion that penalties should be based to a greater extent than today on the criminal offence's criminal value. I would also like to endorse reservation 19 in the report on extenuating circumstances. Mr President, I would like to Let me read a few lines from Dagens Nyheter yesterday: The Swedes who have joined the terrorist cult IS are protected by the Constitution. Despite EU demands for stronger legislation, the government continues to give priority to freedom of association over a ban on participation in terrorist organisations. "We have not received a directive to reconsider this," says Lars Werkström, who is investigating a new terror law. ..................................................... This is serious. In the agreement on counter-terrorism measures concluded by the Alliance with the Government in December 2015, we agreed that criminal liability for dealings with terrorist groups should be considered in the investigation that the same Werkström I read about in Dagens Nyheter leads. Criminalising associations with terrorist organisations cannot be opposed to freedom of association. IS should be added to the exceptions contained in the Constitution on military organisations. It is remarkable that the government prioritises freedom of association before combating terrorism. To belong to a terrorist organisation is criminal and associated with punishment in countries such as France, Germany, Holland, Austria and Belgium. Norway's legislation also prohibits accession to terrorist organisations. Are the constitutions of these countries less libertarian than the Swedish ones? I don't think so. We think that the same should apply in Sweden: All dealings with terrorist organisations should be prohibited. In DN, Chief Prosecutor Hilding Qvarnström Qvarnström estimates that criminalised membership of terrorist organisations would increase the chances of the judiciary's success. On a straight question in another article in Dagens Nyheter, if Sweden should also have such a law, she answers: Yes, if you want to stop this. We have constitutionally protected freedom of association. But it is not there to protect the Islamic State. We also have a proud tradition of freedom of expression. But we do not accept the spread of racist hate speech. That's why we have the law on incitement to ethnic groups. It is an interference in freedom of expression, but it is right to ban the incitement, hatred and threat of racist and homophobic pre-signs. Criminalising relations with an Islamic killer cult does not threaten freedom of association. On the contrary, such a ban helps to safeguard the fundamental pillar of society, where freedom of association is one. For our constitutions, everything on which our society rests, IS wants to destroy. We see the atrocities they commit in Syria and Iraq. That Swedes who return with this on their conscience should be protected by freedom of association is not good enough. We Christian Democrats have for many years been pushing the issue of criminalising participation in and support for racist, terrorist or other organised crime. We welcome the government's proposal to criminalise the preparation of terrorist acts such as travel, training camps and funding. The government urgently needs to return to Parliament with a bill that further criminalises participation in support functions of a terrorist organisation, such as material care, transport and maintenance or cooking, which contributes to the organization's ability to participate in an armed conflict or to commit serious crimes. Anyone who joins IS should, in the opinion of the law, be guilty of terrorist offences. Mr President, I would like to I want answers as to why the government has deviated from the terrorist agreement, as I judge it. We agreed on the wording that criminal liability for association should be considered in the investigation, but the investigator says to DN: This would have required clear instructions from the government. ..................................................... Clear directives are missing. The question is whether we can get a clear answer from the government: why are such directives not given?
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1472	Mr President, I would like to At the end of the line, Roger Haddad came from the Liberals with so many inappropriate statements that I felt they needed to be dealt with anyway. To begin with, Roger Haddad claimed that there have been fewer police officers in Sweden. This is not true. According to the statistics that we, who sit in the Police Transparency Council, are constantly being reported to us, the number of police officers continues to increase, and the number of police employees, including civilians, has never been higher than today. What Mr Roger is referring to regarding the short-term redeployment of police officers from certain areas to other areas is correct. If we want more policemen in particularly vulnerable areas, as we want, there are not a lot of policemen on the shelf that it is just to pick up there, but then we have to use police officers who have had other, less urgent tasks. I thought that we in this House agreed to combat organised crime in the particularly vulnerable areas, which threaten not only women's opportunities and space in public space but, in fact, essentially democracy and the credibility of society. That is one of the most important priorities. Maybe it's more important than patrolling some less exposed area. Then I have a comment on the investigation of child marriage, where there is a broad consensus in this House. This issue will also need to be investigated, as with all the legislation in this country. Sweden has a long and proud tradition of solid legislation through investigation, broad referrals and preparation in the Government Office.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1475	Mr President, I would like to If you count the total number of police employees, there have been more. But I'm talking about cops, and they're getting smaller. We had this up just over a week ago and asked the Minister for Home Affairs the same question. He didn't argue. There are less than 20,000 police officers under your government. In addition, the Social Democrats and the Green Party include the aspirants in this figure. I have checked this with the Police Association, among other things, before I went to this House. The government counts aspirants when it is said that we have never had so many police officers in Sweden. That's not true. That's wrong. Aspirants are students at the three universities Umeå, Växjö and Södertörn. We must build this debate on facts and truth. Either we have more cops or we don't. In addition, 950 police officers stopped only last year, of which about 200 were old-age. The rest has ended for other reasons. It is clear that this affects the total number of police officers. That is why we have different draft budgets and different ambitions in the police budget. However, this was not the focus of the debate when we talk about this report. We talked about blue-light personnel and attacks on them in the affected areas. The question was why it should take three years before you can tighten the penalties. I didn't get any good answers, except that everything had to be investigated. At that time, I compared with the issue of child marriage and our initiative in the Civil Committee, where we were prepared to present legislation in Parliament, because we have that possibility. The next day the government invited us and said: Let's settle!
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1480	Mr President, I would like to If the issue is that the Liberals want to be invited to the government to settle the issue of bluelight personnel, I think I have misunderstood it. I understood that the objection was that it takes time and that things need to be investigated. But this is true in both these cases – both the issue of attacks on bluelight personnel and the criminal protection to be applied and the issue of child marriage, both criminal and civil. I do not believe in spitting out legislation at the sitting table, but I believe in the broad processes that we have a tradition of in Sweden, where experts sit in investigations and pan out good legislative proposals that can work and then go out for broad referrals to various authorities and stakeholder organisations. Not least, the proposals are also being prepared in the Government Office. In my speech, I did not have time to say that this is exactly what is currently happening with the second part of Lars Werkström's terrorist investigation. It's being prepared in the Government Office. Sometimes the proposals are not so simple. Sometimes they are not entirely good and feasible. Sometimes there are various points of view that need to be taken into account. This is an aspect that I take very seriously. As for the number of police officers, I wonder if our misconception may depend on what we compare with. Although some police officers have stopped, the total, at least month by month until the end of the year, is positive. But it is possible that we compare with different numbers. It's a little unnecessary to argue about it. I look forward to us clarifying the facts and getting a common picture of the situation. In any case, we agree that the police need more resources so that more people can do the important work of fighting crime.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1485	Mr President, I would like to I did not ask for a discussion on blue light personnel. I criticised the government parties for taking three years before you can tighten the penalties for attacks on blue-light personnel such as ambulances and police. Despite the fact that government representatives have spent the whole of last year highlighting how serious this is, according to the plan, it will go until 1 January 2019 before new legislation can enter into force. That is what our criticism was about. As far as I am concerned, this does not really match the serious situation we see in the most vulnerable areas. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question about the number of police officers – that is why Annika Hirvonen Falk went up in the speaker's chair. Does Annika Hirvonen Falk mean that Sweden has more policemen today than when we were in government, if you clear out investigators and aspirants?
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1487	Mr President, I would like to Initially, I would like to say that I do not think it is relevant to clear the statistics from the police officers investigating crimes. It is clear that in some contexts it is relevant to look at how many are involved in criminal investigation and how many are involved in intervention activities. But in the end, they're all cops. I do not think it would be a good idea to pick many of those investigators and instead put them on the street, because we have a very serious situation. Crime resolution has declined for seven years. Then let's not cut down on the number of detectives in the police. Now we have seen a cautiously positive trend for the first time in seven years. I really hope it lasts. I think it would be counterproductive to remove those investigators. I do not think there is anything further to add, Mr President.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1490	Mr President, I would like to I can begin by saying that Roger Haddad did not receive much of a response to the question of whether there are more or fewer police officers. But that's not what I was going to ask you. When we visit police officers around the country, we see that district police officers are allowed to fight to continue working on crime prevention. They're drawn to other things. They are attracted to intervention activities. They may need to take off their uniform and work civilianly as scouts to cover the holes that arise in view of the major problems that exist in Sweden but also in the police organization. At the same time, we know that investigations are being prioritised. Serious crimes are prioritised down in investigations. At a police station that I visited, it was said: We can only prioritise investigations and investigation activities where we have people in custody right now. Everything else should be turned around. In view of the situation in the police, I would like to ask Annika Hirvonen Falk to give me an example of less urgent tasks that can be prioritised down, which are not already prioritised. Annika Hirvonen Falk said in her speech that less attention can be paid to less urgent tasks. I would like an example of such a task that is not already a priority, when serious crimes are prioritised down and when district police officers are forced to do other than precisely crime prevention.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1494	Mr President, I would like to I have to agree with the description that it is very serious and unfortunate when the district police who are going to work crime prevention have to be brought in for other activities. A united parliament wants to prioritise so that the police can work with long-term relationship building vis-à-vis municipalities, various organisations and citizens. This is an important task for the district police. That's why I think we need more resources for the police. There are needs that today's organization is unable to meet. However, what I raised in my speech, Mr President, was the question of the priority given to the particularly vulnerable areas. I wonder, are we not in agreement, Andreas Carlson? Let us say that we should give priority to the particularly vulnerable areas and that we seriously believe that that is the most important thing! Isn't it reasonable, before we get in place more new police officers and everything we want now, to do just as the Police Authority has done? They've picked up policemen from other areas that aren't as vulnerable to crime.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1496	Mr President, I would like to The difference is 2.4 billion. That is the difference between the government's budget to the police and the Christian Democrats' budget. I asked for an example – if we go back to the question – of a less urgent task. Perhaps I should interpret the answer like this: Although it is worthwhile with district policemen who can work preventively, it is less urgent than working in the alienation areas. The Christian Democrats do not think so. We think we should have a perseverance. We're going to work preventively. We will be in place with the police in the exclusion areas, but we also have a strong focus on the police being able to continue working in smaller municipalities and be at the schools. A district police officer I met in a municipality in my home county, Jönköping County, said: If we are not allowed to work continuously with the crime prevention work, we will soon have small Malmö all over the country. It's a quote from a cop I met. I do not think it is less urgent to continue to work in crime prevention and to have police officers attached to schools. They can interact with schools, social services, civil society, families and the local community. That is why we are investing so strongly in the police on the part of the Christian Democrats. I can understand why the government needs to say that this is less urgent, given that it has much less money. You say you're betting on the police. You're saying there's gonna be more cops and there's gonna be more cops. You do not answer Roger Haddad's question as to whether there have actually been more or whether there have been fewer. But when we see these needs, we need to get civilian administrators who can relieve people who can go back into external service. We have said that we can cooperate more with security guards. You can also look at how you can cooperate with the defense, as the Police Office requested this week. There are a variety of things you can do instead of cutting down and calling preventive work less urgent.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1502	Mr President, I would like to I don't think anyone has ever accused me of calling crime prevention less urgent. Nor have I done so in this case. But even with the big efforts that the Christian Democrats want, we are in a situation where it takes two and a half years to train new police officers. Pending their training, we have the choice between either having as many police officers in the particularly vulnerable areas as in areas where it is quiet and quiet or not. I think we need to be honest and say: when we prioritise these areas and have no police officers on the shelf to take down, we have to pick policemen somewhere else. I don't think picking up the district police is a priority. However, when I meet a police officer who has been relocated from Nacka to northern Botkyrka, I can have great respect for the fact that the police authorities have made that priority, not least because we in this House are in fact agreed that the police must act against organised crime in the particularly vulnerable areas. Then there are several proposals, including on the transport of detainees, where we have completely removed certain tasks from the police and put them on other authorities. There is more to be done here to free up resources for the police. Let us continue to work constructively in this area too!
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1507	Mr President, I would like to We will now discuss procedural matters. These are important issues. I would like to begin by saying that we in the Moderates are behind all our reservations, but for time-winning I only support reservation 4 concerning the increased use of secret coercive measures. This report deals with 75 claims. On three points, the committee proposes announcements. Other forms of exercise are rejected or treated in a simplified manner. The three announcements we make are important. The first concerns increased possibilities for camera surveillance in crime-prone areas. The majority of committees believe that this is necessary, not least in order to increase the resolution of crime. Cameras are important when the police are too few and witnesses are silent, so you can easily put it. The second is that we want to review how the work on preventing crimes against the employees of the judiciary can be strengthened. Unfortunately, law enforcement personnel are exposed to threats and other crimes. After all, the investigation into order and security in the courtrooms to which Social Democrats and others refer does not deal with this broader and important issue. That is why the majority have made this point. The third announcement is that we want to investigate whether decisions on secret interception or monitoring of electronic communications can be linked to a person instead of a number or an address. I am very amazed at the reservations of the government parties. The reservation refers to an investigation work aimed at strengthening the protection of the individual's privacy. As far as I know, the Privacy Investigation did not deal with these issues. But our view is: If you are going to decide on secret coercive measures, it should be done after a careful assessment of the balance between the gravity of the crime and personal integrity. Once you have decided that you should have secret coercive measures, it is quite good to do so in a practical way. The current order means that the police have to search and re-search. So we do not exactly meet the problem that the decision intends to address, but it becomes unnecessary bureaucracy. The proposal is a simplification and practical application which, in my view, does not in any way concern the issue of integrity. It is strange that such a practical issue cannot be changed, where police authorities feel that it would facilitate their work. I admit that questions of secret coercive measures are often difficult. These are principles that should be weighed against each other. But it is also about the development of crime and the constant development of technology, which, not least, criminals are quick to adopt and use. Being able to investigate crimes are serious issues no matter how complicated it is. Therefore, we Moderates want to investigate the possibility of using information from signal scanning even when preliminary investigation has begun. We have still not got a majority on this, but it is important that we can use this type of information because, for example, we need to investigate travel to terrorist activities abroad and a lot more. We also think that the rules on seizures and searches should be reviewed, because they need to be updated. That is correct, as the government side says: an investigation has been set up. But it will be a bill at best late next spring. That is a very long way ahead, and it is clear that we would like to see this more quickly because the criminals are into modern technology very quickly. The third thing I think needs to be mentioned is that we need to have a faster and better handling of theft crimes in stores. We previously had a discussion about access bans. But it is also about the possibility of better handling of cases. You often hear shop owners complain that it is difficult to get the police to come. Sometimes you get cops to come, but they say, "Why are you calling about this?" It's not going to be anything anyway. This is a management that is annoying to everyone, while it is actually serious with these theft crimes that recur all the time. Here is now a work in progress to try to revive what was previously called the snattophon. There are opportunities to do so already today. We have exercised, and we think that we should look at further measures to ensure that we get a faster and more functional handling of the reports. Then you probably have to work on more than just what is existing today. I'm in favour of reservation 4, as I said earlier. Otherwise, I think that the committee has dealt with the issues dealt with in the report in a good way.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1521	Mr President, I would like to How our courts work and how the judgment should go to interested people in Sweden. At the moment, for example, a series called the Court of Justice on TV is under way, which shows how different processes are being carried out. It's good that it's shown because many people think it's happening like in American movies. Our procedural arrangements differ most significantly, and it is important that it comes out properly. Members of Parliament from various committees, and of course also the opposition in the Committee on Justice, write many motions on the subject. As an old court lawyer, I find it exciting that there are many points of view and suggestions for what is hoped to improve the judicial activity. The report also includes motions on, among other things, camera surveillance and motions on secret coercive measures, which may well be said to be outside the scope of judicial activity but which are nevertheless considered to be a matter of procedural law. Since the 2014 elections, the Social Democratic Government has come up with many proposals in this area and has also set up numerous investigations. It has legislated for a more modern trial aimed at streamlining and improving the judiciary. Legislation has been put in place to increase jurisdiction, a new system of patent and market courts, to strengthen legal certainty in the pre-trial investigation procedure, to improve the access of suspects to defenders and to transparency in pre-trial investigations, etc. We will soon be discussing in this House legislative proposals on a more efficient and efficient land and environment process and a legislative proposal on effective cooperation between courts. An investigation is currently under way on camera surveillance, law enforcement and privacy protection, an investigation into improved conditions for order and security in the courts, an investigation to review the rules on seizures and searches, an investigation on procedural law and large criminal cases, to see how to streamline and modernise large criminal cases, an investigation on secret data reading, an investigation on judicial recruitment and, finally, an investigation on data storage. All these investigations shall make proposals during this year. Much work is therefore under way to hopefully improve and develop activities in this area. The report therefore proposes three announcements. An announcement from the Riksdag means that the Government will come back to Parliament and report in what way the issue raised in the announcement has been or will be dealt with. The first proposal for a notice concerns camera surveillance in public places. There's already an investigation on the way. As soon as June this year, a report will be submitted. Here, a special investigator has been commissioned by the government to study more closely a wide range of camera surveillance issues. The aim is to ensure that camera surveillance can be used where necessary to combat crime while ensuring a high level of privacy protection. The investigator will also analyse how the regulation of the Camera Surveillance Act should be adapted to the new EU data protection regulation. An announcement to the government would therefore be rather pointless. Another proposal for a notice calls on the government to review how to strengthen the prevention of crimes against judicial staff. In this case, the Government has instructed a special investigator to review whether the rules on security in the courts can be clarified and tightened up. The assignment shall be presented by 1 June 2017. In addition, an investigation, which we have already talked about in this House in the previous case, has been set up to review the criminal law protection of bluelight personnel and other socially useful functions. As has been pointed out, several authorities are also engaged in work aimed at improving the safety of their employees. With this in mind, we do not see the need for an announcement here either. It should also be borne in mind that it is not permitted today to threaten or otherwise be violent against, for example, judges. The last draft announcement, as we have heard here, concerns a decision that secret interception should be linked to a person. The law today focuses on a person having a phone. It is, of course, an outdated picture of reality. An extensive investigation and preparation work is currently under way on matters relating to secret coercive measures. In addition, an investigation is under way as to whether secret data readings should be introduced. It will make its proposal in autumn 2017. Difficult boundaries and more excess information will be nuts that have to be broken. We therefore believe that there is reason to await investigations in the area of privacy that are under way. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support our reservations, but I do not support them, but I only support the committee's proposals in the report as a whole.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1535	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to Susanne Eberstein, you get the impression that we would be in complete agreement on the subject. It is positive if that is the case. Susanne Eberstein, however, feels that the announcements are unnecessary. I do not share that view. As I said in my speech, these issues are being investigated, or at least some of them. But that does not mean that proposals will be made. If the majority has a firm opinion on a matter, I think it is important to make it clear that something needs to be done in a specific direction. Take this with camera surveillance, which is a difficult and very controversial issue. Everywhere you meet representatives of municipalities and businesses who think it is a very sprawling approach to this and that there are many problems. Above all, there is an irritation in vulnerable areas that they have not been authorised for camera surveillance because they believe that it would support the security-building work they are doing. Not least from the Järva field, this has been an issue that has been pursued many times. Then we think it reasonable that the parliamentary majority should make it clear that we are prepared to actually ensure that it will be easier to obtain a permit for this type of camera surveillance in criminal areas as a response to the concerns that exist. It is not possible to simply refer to the existence of an investigation. It's gonna be very weird. This also applies to the other proposals where we think the investigations are not enough. For example, in the case of judicial staff, this is not a specific issue in the investigation dealing with court security. It's wider than that. It has not been so long since a police officer was attacked in his home, and there are other legal personnel who are exposed to one other than the other. We think that we need to look seriously at the safety of these staff.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1541	Mr President, I would like to It is the privilege of the opposition to make announcements, especially in the parliamentary situation in which we find ourselves today. I have full respect for that and understanding that this is happening to us. When it comes to camera monitoring and the sprawling management, that is why it is so important to investigate this properly so that we can get good legislation in place. I think I have a long experience, and if you do sloppy investigations, there is a risk that there will be sloppy legislation. That is why it is important that we really look at everything properly with very difficult questions. In fact, investigators can also talk to their client if they feel that they have received directives that do not work or that they feel that this should be done better or otherwise. It has happened, certainly even during Beatrice Ask's time in government. It is terrible that a police officer is being attacked in his home, but it is by no means a punishment today. You still have to remember that. It sounds easy in the debate to say that it would be quite criminal to attack the judicial staff and that it is therefore so terrible that this blue light investigation is delayed. But much of what will come out is already criminalised. What can be added are just such things as protection, anonymity and all sorts of things you might need to think about.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1544	Mr President, I would like to Of course, what concerns bluelight personnel meets with the police, but the staff of the judiciary is a broader concept. A lot of people go between the chairs. That's what we're pointing at. We need a broader view of the safety of those staff because we see that there is a tougher climate. I think that's important. As far as camera surveillance is concerned, I share the view that careful investigations must be carried out, but it is important to mark this with the area of crime that we are doing in the announcement. We have the experience that many crimes are committed in vulnerable areas. The police are too few, and there is no doubt that camera surveillance provides better conditions to prosecute crimes. It's easier to investigate, and it's an important source of evidence. I briefly mentioned in my speech that when there are too few police officers and when many Witnesses are silent, the cameras are very helpful. This is an important reason why we think that we need to be able to have camera surveillance more often in criminal areas. It must be a criterion that is taken into account. That is an important view that we are signalling with this announcement, and that is the point of announcements. You could say that this is what happens to you when you're in government. In fact, announcements are almost the only tool that Parliament has to indicate that we have a firm opinion from a majority. It is an important tool that we are going to use, and we are doing so in this case on 3 points out of 75 claims. I still think that's a pretty small percentage.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1548	Mr President, I would like to I have no different opinion on camera surveillance. I think that would go a long way with it. I have experience of how it works in London, and I think the British people are very positive about having cameras like this everywhere in public places. This is exactly what the investigation is about to take hold of, and we jointly realized that it was not good as it was and that the county boards were far too strict. Their decisions have probably not been sufficiently appealed, for it is possible that there would have been much more in that case. We therefore agree wholeheartedly that this should happen. In June, the investigation will, and I am convinced that we will actually be able to agree on this because it is a new time, and this is a very good weapon. When it comes to the staff of the judiciary being placed between the chairs, I do not know which chairs it would be. If you commit crimes and abuse of judicial staff, you are already being convicted today, so I think it sounds a little strange to say that they would end up between the chairs. On the other hand, safety can be increased in many different ways. In fact, the employer can already do that today. It is very important that the staff of the courts feel protected. That goes without saying, and I don't suppose anyone would mind. But even today, it is actually criminalised to go after those staff.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1552	Mr President, I would like to We support our reservations, but for time winning, I would like to limit my claims to reservation 15 on detention and reservation 16 on witnesses. In the report on procedural law, there are three announcements to the government. These are issues that the Swedish Democrats have actively debated and wanted to see improvements around for a long time. Camera surveillance is one of those things. There we know that the police have benefited greatly from camera surveillance in order to reach a clearance percentage for crimes that have previously been completely hopeless. Car fires are an example where the police themselves say that camera surveillance has been very useful. According to the police, experiences from cities affected by terrorist attacks also show that camera surveillance has been crucial to detect and incapacitate perpetrators and prevent more attacks. In the announcement, we believe that it must be easier for the police to use camera surveillance in crime-prone locations, and that is good. But the Swedish Democrats want more. We also believe that the police should be able to use camera surveillance more easily than today for more places and even when these places have not been particularly exposed to crime. Last time we debated camera surveillance in this House, I said that a residential area should not have to develop into a war zone before the police are to have access to camera surveillance, and that is an opinion that we maintain. The announcement is a step on the way and provides a guarantee for the continued work of making camera surveillance a more natural part of the crime prevention and investigation work. We welcome developments even if we want much more. Similarly, when it comes to secret coercive measures, the Swedish Democrats have for a number of years proposed that it should be easier for the police and prosecutors to have access to the use of secret coercive measures. We also want to lower the requirements for when information obtained through secret coercive measures can be used as a basis for prosecution. We are not yet there, but we are pleased that more parties are at least contributing to technical solutions that facilitate the issue of permits to use secret coercive measures. For us, it was a small but clear announcement that permits for various coercive measures should be linked to a person rather than to an address or telephone number. In addition to the positive progress of the announcements, we have continued with some motions that want to facilitate when and how secret coercive measures can be used. Madam President, I would like We also want to continue to see the possibility of using anonymous witnesses. Last year when we debated anonymous witnesses, the Swedish Democrats were quite alone in wanting to open up to that possibility. Now we have seen that several bourgeois parties support the idea, which unfortunately is not enough for an announcement, but the development is still positive. We know that witness duties continue to be scarce in many areas of crime. The reasons for this are that serious organised crime is sitting on a capital of violence that simply scares people into silence. We believe that the opportunity to witness anonymously can change the culture of silence, get people to get acquainted with the idea, and have the courage to witness. Getting people to start witnessing, even if it is anonymous, can lead to the conditions for conviction where today is a dead race. And a more effective judicial system, where criminals go for serious crimes, can in itself give courage to other Witnesses when they see that it pays to participate in criminal investigations. We believe it is time to try new measures. In order to get a positive development started, the opportunity to testify anonymously can be a start. In addition to our other reservations in this report, we also have some things that are dealt with in a simplified way. In conclusion, however, I would like to touch on our reservation on detention. Swedish citizens who travel to terror controlled areas to join the Islamic State or similar organizations is a major problem as many of them come back to Sweden. Once these people are back, it is difficult for us to investigate what crimes they may have committed. Moreover, they are a major burden on the Security Service, which is forced to keep many of them under surveillance when they are at large. The Swedish Democrats have wanted to extend the criminal liability for more acts related to terrorism, to deprive terrorists of their citizenship and so on. In addition, it is important not to exclude any measures that give our society more secure and better conditions for dealing with, investigating and punishing people who have committed various forms of terrorist crime. That's why we want to investigate how an automatic detention of returnees could be carried out. In this way, not only would the recent stay of Islamist terrorists in Sweden be in detention, but also the first time after a return would be in detention.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1568	Madam President, I would like In this report on procedural matters, we deal with the rules governing the determination of cases in courts, but also with all the rules on preliminary investigations that affect the ability of the police and prosecutors to obtain evidence against the suspect of a crime. Society has a lot of intervention measures against persons suspected of crimes. Detention is by far the most intervention. Today, however, we are discussing, above all, the possibilities for police and prosecutors to secretly intercept people's phone calls or to secretly monitor suspected criminals using cameras. With regard to this type of secret coercive measures, we are asking the important question of the balance between the possibility of combating and investigating crimes and the right of the individual to protect his or her privacy. Since the technology in telephony and similar communications has developed a lot in recent years, the government has set up an investigation with a comprehensive mission. The investigation will review current legislation in order to see if more effective regulation for interception can be achieved while maintaining respect for privacy. As that investigation is working and is due to leave its report this autumn, I see no reason to make any announcement in this area today. This report also deals with open camera surveillance, for example in places that are particularly vulnerable to crime. It is regulated today in the Camera Surveillance Act. It is currently being reviewed in another study, which will be submitting its report to the government in just a few months' time. There is an evaluation of the legislation from 2013. However, the investigator also has an explicit mandate to review the possibilities for camera surveillance at places exposed to crime and whether that regulation is appropriate. I believe that there will be reason to review current legislation. It has been quite sprawling. Therefore, I am also pleased that the investigation is looking at the possibilities the supervisory authority may have to come up with regulations that clarify what applies, so that it is not applied in different ways in different parts of the country. Nor should it lead to the kind of unfortunate decision that when the synagogue in Malmö first did not get permission for camera surveillance, even if it in itself changed later. The investigation also has the task of looking at whether the protection of employees should be strengthened when employers want to monitor their staff. The same applies to the supervision of school spaces. Today, it does not require a notification or application for a permit, which makes it quite difficult for the supervisory authority to examine whether a good balance has been struck in the individual case. As that investigation is working, I do not see any reason for an announcement on camera surveillance in crime-prone locations either, although the majority suggest it. It is very important that those working in the judiciary have a safe working environment. This is of course important because we want to be able to recruit the very best people to become judges, police officers, prosecutors and so on. But it is even more important for the integrity of the judiciary to be preserved, so that people are not affected in their decision-making or action by threats or other pressures. That is why it is good that the government has set up an investigation into order and security in the courts and the investigation that we have already debated here this evening, on the protection of blue-light personnel. In addition, several authorities are already working continuously and actively on security issues. On this point too, there is no need for an announcement. Although I support our three reservations, I would like to spare the House time and therefore do not support them. Finally, I would like to comment on the question of the so-called snattophon. I was extremely pleased when the police at the last Transparency Council told me about their initiative to upgrade the work of dealing with people arrested for shoplifting in shops by, for example, security guards or security guards. In the past, the Ombudsman has criticised the model that has been used. But I hope and believe that new technologies will put order in place. It must meet the requirements of legal certainty, but above all ensure that we get more efficient and faster handling in shoplifting. It can save the police time and resources. This also applies to shopkeepers, security guards and security guards, who are currently in danger of sitting for hours and waiting for the person concerned to be taken care of and interrogated by the police.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1581	Madam President, I would like I will admit that it is with some hesitation that I have approached the issue of enhanced camera surveillance. There is an important privacy aspect linked to the expanded use of surveillance cameras. A society where the state constantly looks over our shoulders is not a very good society. It's not necessarily a safer society either. Cameras can help to increase security if used properly and if the material generated by the cameras is handled responsibly and according to a clear regulatory framework. Then the privacy requirement can be met. In the past, they used to discuss the crime prevention effect of surveillance cameras. The idea was that knowing the existence of cameras would discourage people from committing crimes. However, the research shows that no significant effects in this particular area can be clearly demonstrated. I brought that knowledge to Britain on a study visit, but it turned out that the cameras there had a different effect in the first place. Although the cameras did not function in the maintenance of crime, they contributed significantly to the resolution of crimes. There, just like here, are areas where a distinct culture of silence prevails. There people are not very inclined to report crimes, much less to witness. And the British example shows that in these cases the cameras can play a major role in investigating and prosecuting crimes. This, Madam President, is a cornerstone of the rule of law. People, including those living in parts of the country where crime is high – and perhaps in particular they – deserve the presence and efforts of the rule of law society. It is also in these shipments that it is most difficult to get people to dare to testify. In addition to efforts to strengthen witness protection, there is also every reason to look at ideas on how crime can best be combated. Long-term and sustainable, we must wear down the criminal structures that have taken root in too many parts of our elongated country. We have to make it smart, and we have to do it now. For every step we let crime enter, it becomes harder and more expensive to drive out. The fact that we are now making progress in allowing increased camera surveillance in areas that are particularly vulnerable to crime can help reverse developments. Possibly, it is a little side by side with the purely procedural law, but cameras can collect material that can be used to investigate crimes, and they can in real time provide valuable tactical information to the police in connection with larger efforts to be carried out. What happened in the Stockholm suburb of Rinkeby a few weeks ago, where a police operation was met with threats and violence, might not have had to happen if the police had had access to a better picture of the situation. The insecurity that such events spread might have been avoided, and those who got their property vandalized had avoided a great deal of discomfort. Now that the police are going to increase pressure on the criminal gangs, you need the best possible conditions to do the job effectively and safely for everyone involved. Another part of the report is, in fact, a matter of course. At least it should be. In cases where a decision on the secret interception and monitoring of electronic communications has been taken, this decision shall be linked to a person rather than to a telephone number or an address. A criminal proposal can cut off a large number of phones in order to escape the yarn of justice, and for each new telephone number a new legally secure decision is required. Everyone must agree that this is an unreasonable order. After all, it is with all reasonableness that the person is of interest to law enforcement authorities, not the telephone itself. It is a good thing that we have an announcement of this, and frankly it is not entirely understandable how the government parties and the Left Party can be against a practical improvement that makes the secret coercive force more precise. A third very important part of this report is the security of judicial staff. Threats, pronounced and unspoken, attempts at various pressures and other unpleasant things seem to be becoming more common. Perhaps it is an effect of increasingly organized crime. Gangs with a lot of violent capital can frighten everyone, and it is so infinitely important that legal proceedings can be conducted so that criminals can be prosecuted. There should be no threat to the benefits of the rule of law. It should not be possible to avoid punishment by committing other crimes against the police, prosecutors or witnesses. Against this, society must show a strong clarity. Madam President, I would like There is also part of this report that did not lead all the way to an announcement. When we debated the criminal justice report a moment ago, I spent a great deal of my speaking time highlighting the security situation of all the heroes of society who run shops and other companies that are of such enormous benefit to society as a whole. Thefts are a major problem, not least for supermarkets. It is not just the value of what is stolen that costs, even if it is a large part. It takes time to deal with all of this – time that the trader has to spend taking care of someone who commits crimes against him or her – instead of making sure to offer their customers the best possible service. Every year there are 2 million external theft crimes in the trade worth SEK 4.6 billion, and the food trade is most affected. Dismissal is great, as each of these crimes is so small that the police do not have the opportunity to spend time investigating them, but accumulated it becomes an unreasonable burden on some of society's most important job creators. Since it looks like it does with how these crimes are handled by the judiciary, the propensity for notification is very small. The industry itself states that there are as few as 2% of all these crimes reported. A grocery store is often the beginning of a long working life for a young person. Unfortunately, it may also be the place for the beginning of a criminal career. Of course, not everyone who has ever stolen something in a store develops a criminal life - style, but for the young person who slowly gets used to taking what you want without anything happening, without society reacting, there is a great risk of getting deeper into crime. It is extremely irresponsible, Madam President, to allow this to happen. We are betraying all these hard-working entrepreneurs and, in fact, we are also betraying the young person who, because of our failure, is slipping. Simpler theft crimes should be solved directly on site in a store. A pilot project is currently under way in this spirit, but there are already documented experiences from previous projects. The Stockholm Police Region is ready to introduce an updated version of what was called the snattophon, and all police regions that want to work in this way should be allowed to do so. Of course, I support all my reservations, but for time winning I only agree to reservation 11 on effective handling of theft crimes in stores.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1601	Madam President, I would like There are some who call for Sweden to introduce anonymous witnesses, especially in times when we have many court hearings that are cancelled because witnesses do not dare to show up, and many unsolved crimes that are difficult to investigate. Then anonymous witnesses may feel like a good solution. But I think it's going to be a legally insecure future. The fact that people do not want to stand and testify is, according to the Crime Prevention Council, not just because they have been exposed to serious threats or violent crimes. The most common thing, according to a study that Brå has done, may be that you have a general fear of the process, which is not surprising, because a court hearing is a vulnerable situation. To enable effective law enforcement, therefore, Witnesses are required to stand and testify when required. That is why we have a public witness duty in Sweden and the court has the right to summon witnesses. However, there are threats to the person who is to testify, there is also protection, for example through various administrative measures such as the fact that one's address is not disclosed in the population register. In the court proceedings itself, it can be decided that a party or an audience may not be in the hall when witnesses or plaintiffs are to be heard. You can also hold the entire trial via video link. Anonymous witnesses are a real threat to the rule of law. In a witness hearing in a court of law, the court must make an assessment of the credibility of the witness, which is largely impossible if the witness is to be anonymous. The defendant will find it very difficult to defend himself against allegations made by an anonymous witness, and the examination of the witness's background, experience and personal circumstances will be made more difficult. Nor will it be the case that it is the witness who decides whether or not to remain anonymous, but it is the court that decides whether the threat is serious enough – a decision that can be appealed by the defendant. Thus, police and prosecutors could never guarantee that a witness can remain anonymous throughout the entire legal process. And what witness would stand if the anonymity could disappear at any time? Anonymous witnesses would pose a threat to the rule of law and cradle witnesses in the belief that they can unilaterally choose to remain anonymous. In reality, a majority of witnesses would be refused anonymity at a trial. On the other hand, we need to get more people to testify. Therefore, a better witness protection programme needs to be investigated, which informs prior to negotiation and also offers a more modern and better protection if the threat is too great. While we are talking about witnesses and what happens in Sweden's courts every day, I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute and thank all witness supporters who support witnesses in all Sweden's courts without payment every day. I thank you from the entire Committee on Justice. What heroes you are! Testimony in court is part of the police's duties, and police officers are called to a hearing according to the same rules as apply to all other witnesses. The judiciary is obliged to guarantee citizens legal certainty and efficiency in court proceedings. For various reasons, it sometimes takes quite a long time between preliminary investigation and the main hearing in a case. A policeman called a witness may therefore have taken parental leave, changed jobs or been at home for the care of a sick child once it is time for trial. The date of delivery of the testimony is also not adapted to the working hours or duties of the police. Many police officers, therefore, testify in court in their free time, even though the testimony is, in principle, exclusively a matter for the individual police. We in the Left Party believe that measures must be taken to make it easier for police officers to testify in court, while at the same time it must not lead to a loss of legal certainty in the form of suspension of proceedings or unjustified lengthy court proceedings. The government should therefore return to the Riksdag with proposals for measures to make it easier for police officers to testify in court. I request the approval of reservation 17.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1611	Madam President, I would like I'd like to start with a quote. Many of the worst criminals go free because people don't dare to testify. The criminals get away with their mere violent capital. This is what the experienced police and homicide investigator Bo Lundqvist in Sydsvenskan says. He believes that it is imperative that anonymous witnesses be allowed in the courts. So do we in the Christian Democrats, and we have been running this for a long time. More recently, the need has increased as we see gang crime increasing in strength. Clearly, many feel a great deal of anxiety about witnessing. This applies in particular to evidence relating to gang crime and serious organised crime. The silence of people out of fear of reprisals is a defeat for society as a whole. Witness support and supporters are absolutely essential. For this reason, the Christian Democrats propose an increased state responsibility for and increased state funding of witness support. We also suggest that you be able to testify anonymously. One argument against anonymous witnesses is that the rule of law is under threat, as we heard in a previous speech. However, in countries such as Denmark, the Netherlands and Norway anonymous testimony is permitted in certain exceptional situations. These are countries that we usually do not highlight as examples that legal certainty has fallen completely. The possibility of introducing anonymous witnesses also needs to be examined in Sweden, for example when there are serious threats. We propose that an investigation be set up to allow witnesses in certain cases to give their testimony anonymously in court proceedings. I therefore request the approval of reservation 18. Otherwise, I agree with what my comrades Beatrice Ask and Johan Hedin have said about the announcements contained in the report.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1616	Madam President, I would like So until the end of the evening, we have finally come to the questions about the end of life. But even if the working day has been long, there is much left, just like when we get older. The back stretch may be long, but it is important to ensure that the distance ahead has the best conditions and that we can make the best of the remaining years. In the report that we are now debating, we are dealing with 130 requests from the general period of exercise. There are a variety of proposals concerning the rights of older people, the health care of older people, the efforts of relatives and their needs in health care. We are concerned with quality, supervision, housing, food and nutrition issues, staffing, innovation and, not least, violence against the elderly. On the last point, I am pleased that the whole committee has supported the Alliance's proposal to identify and make visible violence against the elderly in close relations and honour-related violence against the elderly. This is an area where there are still gaps in knowledge, and we have to fill them in order to achieve the security that every ageing person is entitled to and deserves. The care of the elderly and the care of the elderly has long been one of the priorities of the Christian Democrats. During the last eight years of our government, we were also able to help make great progress. If that's allowed, I thought I'd list some of them. We introduced a national value base in social services. We gave support to the municipalities for the introduction of a guarantee of dignity. We introduced a couple housing guarantee so that couples who want to continue living together, even when one needs special accommodation.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1624	We introduced a statutory obligation for municipalities to provide caretakers with support. We invested approximately SEK 4 billion to improve and coordinate healthcare and care for the most ill elderly. We introduced comprehensive national follow-ups of how older people themselves view quality and accessibility. We introduced investment aid for the construction of special housing and shelters. We strengthened lex Sarah so that all staff are obliged to report any maladministration and suspicion of maladministration in the operation. We carried out a major training effort for nurses and carers. We introduced IVO, the Inspection of Care and Care, which is responsible for supervision. We introduced a national system of open comparisons. Of course, this is not enough. Our greatest responsibility is to those who have the greatest needs. That is why it is particularly important to continue the work that we started by investing in the most ill elderly people in particular. During the government period, the Christian Democrats, together with the alliance comrades, carried out an investment in the most ill elderly. As I mentioned earlier, it was about SEK 4 billion. The work led, among other things, to safer use of medicines for the elderly and better care at the end of life. More and more people will suffer from dementia. A well-functioning dementia care is one of the prerequisites for a well-functioning elderly care. We Christian Democrats have proposed that everyone with suspected dementia should have the right to investigation, diagnosis and treatment. This requires properly trained, competent and well-motivated staff. Research in the field of dementia has shown that the relationship with healthcare professionals is among the most important in the care of dementia sufferers. Therefore, employees in healthcare and care should be given both time and resources, as well as specific knowledge of dementia diseases, so that they can create as good dementia care as possible. We want to develop a national dementia plan in order to promote greater knowledge of dementia diseases and the dissemination of this knowledge. In addition, the plan will contribute to a more efficient use of existing resources, such as research collaborations, the development and dissemination of better tools for investigation and diagnostic work, in healthcare and care, or for support to relatives. Since we Christian Democrats have allocated SEK 100 million in our budget for this, such a request is not among the 130 requests that we are discussing in today's report. This is the case with many of the Christian Democrats' proposals. We have funding for a nursing lift and for an investment in staff in elderly care. There should be repatriation teams everywhere that make the home after a hospital stay safe and that rehabilitation starts without delay to the extent necessary. Our effort is greater but, perhaps even more important, more long-term than the government's contribution. We have also set aside special means for a meal lift. These are just some of our priorities. As far as these claims are concerned, they have already been dealt with during the budgetary procedure. Madam President, I would like Let me return to some of our proposals which are dealt with specifically in this report. I would particularly like to highlight all those relatives who make an invaluable contribution and represent an invaluable resource, both for the elderly with care needs and for society as a whole. For many, it is both natural and positive to help a loved one who is in need of help and support. However, if public health and care do not see their responsibilities, that task may be overwhelmed. Instead, the positive changes to requirements and something that is perceived as a burden. Therefore, it is so incredibly important that relatives receive all the support they need. A few years ago, we implemented a change to the Social Services Act, which means that municipalities are now obliged to support people who care and support a close relative. The municipalities not only should but should do so. The National Board of Health and Welfare has been commissioned by the Government to develop guidance and monitor and evaluate the consequences of this change. Yet we see that it is not enough. It's not enough. We Christian Democrats are therefore proposing that a further clarification be included in the Social Services Act: that social services should pay particular attention to the needs of relatives in the context of assistance testing and follow-up of interventions to a person. If necessary, appropriate support shall be provided to relatives and relatives. This can, for example, take the form of information or a training effort for relatives. Madam President, I would like Although we have so far worked hard to improve monitoring, introduce open comparisons and in different ways strengthen research on elderly care, we can see that there are shortcomings and that there are significant differences in results between different municipalities. It is therefore important to continue developing the assessment tools. It is also addressed in one of our reservations. We have several reservations in this report. For time winning, I only ask for reservation 9, although of course I support all our reservations.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1645	Madam President, I would like In the evening debate this spring evening in April, a motion report on older people is being discussed. I cannot stand here in the speaker's chair without sending a thought to our colleague Margareta B Kjellin or Maggan, whom we called her – who died just over a month ago. The issues of the elderly were her heart issues. She was the one who was supposed to be in the speaker's chair tonight, but I am sure she is with us up in her skies and is with us in the debate. Just a few days before Maggan passed away, my colleague Cecilia Widegren and I greeted her in Hudiksvall, where she spent her last weeks in life. It is an accommodation situated beautifully on a hill overlooking a small lake, an accommodation where there are apartments for those who can care for themselves, short-term accommodation for those who need it and care for those who are in the final stages of life. It is a harmonious and peaceful environment. Madam President, I would like That's how we want accommodation to look, isn't it? We should have freedom of choice and be able to choose the accommodation that suits each of us best and where we receive good care and care. We Moderates believe that a retirement home guarantee should be introduced. Today we have a challenge in elderly care, as we are more than 2 million people over the age of 65 in Sweden. Many of us are very alert, but over the years we know that the ailments come and the diseases with them. The future supply of human resources in the care of the elderly must be resolved in the long term. There are extensive recruitment needs in the short as well as in the long term. A holistic approach is therefore needed. A long-term national action plan, followed by local strategies for the provision of skills in care for the elderly and care for the elderly, needs to be developed. It is important that this should be done as soon as possible, because it takes time for today's educational efforts to have an impact on reality. In order to ensure the future supply of staff, it is necessary to ensure that working conditions, the working environment and the ability to influence their situation in the workplace are developed. They need to be more extensive than they are today. These include, for example, pay, full-time opportunities and increased combined influence over working hours, but also the development of increased opportunities for further training, as well as a career for those who want and can develop into, for example, manager or manager of activities in the care of the elderly or care of the elderly. Madam President, I would like There are many other challenges relating to the chances of good quality of life for older people. Apart from the lack of quality and continuity in staffing elderly care, it is also about the food that our elderly are served in nursing homes and home care, but also about the involuntary loneliness that many elderly people experience and about the challenges and opportunities that exist for a more mobile close care for our most ill elderly. Food can and should be a joy in everyday life for the elderly. Many elderly people in elderly care do not eat well enough. We are receiving alarming reports that older people are malnourished. They feel that the food does not taste at all or that the form of the meals is unsatisfactory. In too many cases, mealtimes are a must to carry out instead of a joy and highlight during the day to experience and do with others. We therefore propose, Madam President, that a national initiative with structured pilot projects be launched in order to achieve a meal lift in care for the elderly. One way of working that has great potential is the mobile close to care in a home environment. It has many opportunities to help create a more accessible and better care for the elderly. Mobile close care is aimed at elderly patients and individuals who have complex needs for medical care and care. This form of care requires a clear interaction between the municipality's home care, primary care and inpatient care. Where this form of work has been tested and developed, the response of patients has consistently been positive. A report from Närvård western Skaraborg shows that patients are satisfied. They see this as positive. The staff are also satisfied. The patients don't have to get to the hospital. They feel the security of receiving care at home. The patients further state that they are being listened to and that the doctor takes the time. According to the same report, the results so far are clear and positive. According to the evaluation, emergency visits for the most sick decreased by 80 percent. The number of days spent in hospitals decreased by 92 per cent and the number of appointments by 89 per cent. According to another report, from the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils, the mobile elderly in Uppsala is estimated to have reduced costs by just over SEK 9 million per year in inpatient care and by SEK 2 1⁄2 million in outpatient care. These resources can instead be used to strengthen the quality of other parts of care, for example in primary care. Continue the systematic work on developing monitoring, monitoring and evaluation in care for the elderly and care of the elderly is necessary. This was something that the alliance government started in the last parliamentary term. The National Board of Health and Welfare will continue to conduct the national user survey on elderly care in such a way that results can be reported at the unit level for special housing and home care. This is good, as long as the purpose is to further develop methods and tools to highlight quality and both shortcomings and good examples. Developing new technologies is also important. It can never replace human contact, but so - called smart floors, cameras, and robots can be aids that enable older people to cope well and feel safe in their homes. The inspection of health and long-term care is part of a long-term effort to strengthen supervision and licensing within, among other things, social services. The ambition is that it should be easy to make complaints about perceived lack of quality, for example in home care. The Agency for Care Analysis will develop structured methods to investigate and monitor the quality of elderly care from a user perspective. Open comparison work is necessary in order to improve the quality of care for the elderly and elderly. The method helps to stimulate drivers to improve themselves, to reward transparency and to spread lessons through good practice. We Moderates propose that a national action plan be developed to strengthen care for the elderly and the close care of the most ill elderly. We also want to see national dementia plans as a clear direction and strategy for the increased proportion of dementia. Finally, Madam President, we welcome the announcement by a united committee that the work against violence in close relations and honour-related violence also has an older perspective. In the report on Violence against Older Women, the National Centre for Women's Peace points out that in many places there is a great deal of ignorance about the violence suffered by older women. Efforts are needed to identify and raise the profile of violence so that appropriate measures can be taken to counter this. Madam President, I would like We Moderates support all moderate reservations, but for the spirit of time I only ask for the approval of reservation 9.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1665	Madam President, I would like Today we are going to debate the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment on Older issues. We Swedish democrats have four reservations in this report, which I support. But for time winning, I will only claim the approval of reservation 14. Madam President, I would like I'll take you back in time, to be precise by 2010. I'm sure you'll all remember when the Mission Review made an attentive report on the inadequacy of staffing in the care of the elderly. The pictures on TV were lonely dementia - sick elderly people who were only wearing diapers and wandering around in the corridors of a dementia home in Piteå. There were many at the time who were appalled that it could happen in Sweden. As a result, the National Board of Health and Welfare made unannounced visits to 94 dementia homes in 48 municipalities. What was revealed at the time was that dementia was locked in and left alone at just over 60 percent of the residents. In addition, staffing was so low on 70 per cent of the residents that it was impossible to guarantee safety and safety at night. As a result, we and the then red-green opposition in the Riksdag pushed through the task of the National Board of Health and Welfare to develop guidelines for manning dementia residents. When the first regulations from the National Board of Health and Welfare were presented in 2012, the assignment was extended to all retirement homes. Finally, in November 2014, the National Board of Health and Welfare presented its final proposal, which required staffing around the clock as well as binding rules for staffing retirement homes. But after a long consultation round, the current red-green government chose to throw Socialstyrelsen's proposal for new regulations into the trash basket. Instead, it launched its own proposal which merely introduced rules for access to staff in retirement homes and not, as in the previous proposal from the National Board of Health and Welfare, for retirement homes to be staffed. In other words, a nice coat was a thumb, as the master tailor said. Madam President, I would like We Swedish democrats warned and warned that the government's draft rules will not improve the staffing of the country's retirement homes one bit. The former Director General of the National Board of Health and Welfare, Lars-Erik-Erik Holm, was also strongly critical of the Government's proposal, but unfortunately for deaf ears. The new rules developed by the government have now been in force for almost a year. Then one wonders: What was the result of these new rules? The Health and Welfare Inspection has recently released a supervision report for 2016. I will quote Michaela Hecht Gunnarsson, who is an inspector at IVO: ..................................................... When you yourself take note of IVO's reports about the lack of night staffing that they have investigated in the last year, there are examples of retirement homes where two people have supervision of patients on four different floors. Many of these are dementia. Most often they are anxious at night, which means that they walk around and try to get out. Many retirement homes have also introduced code locks on the doors. This means that patients are in practice locked up because they are unable to press the code themselves. It's not really allowed. There should be staff to take care of the elderly. The reason it has become this bad is, in our view, that the government's wording in the Social Services Regulation is far too fuzzy and interpretable. This has meant that the municipalities have interpreted it to their own advantage, and the elderly have paid the price. But the most remarkable thing is probably that the government does not stand by the demand for staffing that was pushed when you were in opposition. We believe that the government should change and do the right thing. Today's retirement homes are home to society's most fragile and oldest. It must not be the case that severely ill elderly people are left alone at night, as IVO's supervision has shown. Therefore, we believe that there is a need for binding requirements for retirement homes to be manned so that the elderly are given immediate help and can feel safe. We also believe that the elderly should be able to be sure that there are staff at hand once they need it no matter where they live in the country. Madam President, I would like A society should be judged on how the weakest people are treated and cared for. In an assessment with this starting point, Sweden cannot get proper approval when it comes to the care of the oldest and most fragile. Too often we hear about how older ones do not receive the care they need and are entitled to. Many elderly people are still denied retirement homes because there are no places available. In addition, housing is decommissioned even though the number of older people is increasing. When the places in retirement homes are not enough, it is easy for municipalities to raise the bar for what requirements should apply to get a seat. As you know, the Social Services Act regulates the rights of the elderly. But the legal clauses are both vague and unclear. Because elderly care has so little support in the law, it is easy to save on it. Other activities take precedence because they have stronger team support. We believe that it is time to give the elderly with care needs a stronger position in society. We therefore believe that an investigation should be set up with the task of producing a proposal for a law that strengthens older people's rights when they need care for the elderly.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1682	Madam President, I would like Good evening. We are debating today all the motion requests that have been received in 2015 and 2016 relating to older people. As usual, we see that this is an urgent area in which no less than 130 proposals have been received. I and the Center Party support all our reservations, but I choose to endorse only reservation 9. Swedish elderly care is good, but it faces major challenges. We see in various measurements that most are satisfied, but at the same time we get reports of shortcomings and maladministration. There is a need for many changes and improvements. At national level, we see from the Center Party that two major changes need to be made. The first is that the elderly must have more power over their everyday lives. As obvious as it is for those in the midst of life to be able to make decisive decisions for themselves, it must be for those who are older and no longer have the same functions and abilities as before to also have the right to make decisive decisions over their own life and reality. In the Center Party we think it is obvious that all elderly people, just like people with disabilities, should be able to decide for themselves who they should be helped by when needed. 200 of the country's 290 municipalities have today moved power from politicians and bureaucrats to the elderly by applying the law on freedom of choice in home services. We think that even those who live in the rest of the country's municipalities need that right. Why should the 85-year-old in Linköping have the right to decide who should come home and give care, while the person who lives a few miles away in another municipality does not have that right? That difference is not reasonable. As obvious as the fact that all of us throughout the country can choose primary care, it must also be for us to decide who comes to our home when we get older. The previous government had an investigation come up with a proposal. That proposal needs to be dusted off and made a team. The right of the elderly to decide is more important to us than the ability of municipal politicians to control home care. But that's not enough. The elderly must also be allowed to influence the content of home care. Here is my municipality of residence Linköping an example. There older people with home help have that possibility. There are those who claim that this is contrary to the Social Services Act. But if it is against the law to give older people the right to decide, the law must be changed. That is why we from the Center Party have proposed a change of law. The recipient of home care must also be able to influence its content. If on the day that was intended for showering and shaving, I want to come out to hear the birds' spring receipts, I must be able to decide for myself. In addition, it must be possible for the very oldest to decide when the time has come to no longer live in the dwelling they have had as their home for so long. From the age of 80 we think that everyone should have the opportunity to choose a home that provides security and community if you want to. True, home care is good for all those who want it, but people often seek security and community, and if they are old, lonely and fragile and want to live close to others, they should be allowed to do so. The second major area where reforms are needed is to tear down all the walls that exist in order to achieve good cooperation between municipalities and county councils in terms of care and care for the very oldest. Good models are beginning to emerge for how this can happen. West Skaraborg, Ten Hundreds and Ängelholm are some examples. The problem is that there are many more areas where there are no good examples. Part of the explanation is that care for the elderly is also divided into a part governed by the Social Services Act and a part governed by the Health Care Act. One minute the nurse can make an immediate decision about an operation, based on the Health Care Act, but the next minute an official decision is required from an aid administrator. This is not how you can organize the modern elderly care of the future. It is time for us to have a modern care law based on the needs of the elderly and not after whether it is county councils or municipalities that are responsible. Although Swedish elderly care faces many and major challenges, there are no proposals from the left-wing government. Instead, it is concerned with making proposals that will seriously impair the care of the elderly, not improve it. What will have the greatest impact is undoubtedly the proposal to ban private companies in the care of the elderly, the Reepalus investigation. If it becomes a reality, a large number of private retirement homes and home care services will be closed – in nte because of their poor quality, not because the elderly and their relatives are dissatisfied, nor because the staff are dissatisfied, but only because the left-wing parties are distrusting private companies in the welfare sector. Swedish elderly care has enough challenges without well-functioning units having to be shut down for ideological reasons. Madam President, I would like Sweden needs new leadership, not least in order to be able to deal with the challenges facing elderly care.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1699	Madam President, I would like I do not know about Member of Parliament Danielsson and I have read the same investigation. It's on my table there. He says that we should ban all private elderly care options and the entrepreneurs that exist. But there's not a word about it in that investigation. It's 700 pages. Perhaps Mr Danielsson can plow it in Easter. Getting older is not a disease, not a state of emergency, but a part of life. Some older people wrap golf balls in Portugal high up in their age and are very alert, while others have bodies that don't keep up or an economy that doesn't allow that kind of extravagans. Class and age are reflected in economics but also in ageing. Many older people find themselves in a situation where they need hands-on help with various things, and letting people into their homes is a big step. There must be trust; it is obvious. Older people should feel secure in their lives and receive the care they need. It is the responsibility of society that there is an elderly care that is accessible and equal and of high quality. The savings and cuts that have been made in the past and in the care of the elderly have reduced quality. Staff do not have the time to provide the necessary assistance and care. At worst, this has meant that the safety and security of older people have not been met. The Left Party wants an equal and equal care of the elderly with high quality, where the elderly have a real influence on their situation and their everyday lives and where the staff have good working conditions. The staff is the key to retirement homes and care for the elderly. It is extremely important that we protect them in different ways. Elderly care must never become a labour market regulator, as it was in Stockholm, for example, for eight years with a bourgeois majority, where many in the home care service came directly from the job space. This is directly counterproductive. The Left Party has long been demanding that staffing within elderly care be improved, and in the autumn of 2014 we agreed with the Government on a commitment of SEK 2 billion on a full-year basis during the term of office to strengthen the ability to improve the quality of retirement homes, which is a long process. Strengthened staffing leads to better care for the elderly by creating space for the staff to do more with the elderly but also to develop the work. In February, researchers at the Department of Social Work at Stockholm University published a new report on how the working conditions of elderly care have changed between 2005 and 2015. The study is based on questionnaire responses from approximately 1,200 nurses and health care assistants in the Swedish elderly care sector and from around 4,400 in corresponding positions in Denmark, Finland and Norway. The report shows several major changes in Swedish care for the elderly. There has been a significant increase in the number of helpers faced by a home worker during a working day, while the room for manoeuvre of the staff has been reduced. The contact with the managers doesn't work anymore, that's all. The staff of retirement homes experience their work as significantly more psychologically and physically heavy and also much more time-pressed in 2015 than in 2005. It's not moving forward. It went backwards. That's not how we get more people who want to work in the care of the elderly. The privatisation of welfare in recent decades has not led to better conditions for employees – quite the contrary. I mean, this is serious, because it's the employees who will then protect and work with the elderly. The employees in private-run care have consistently lower conditions and lower wages than those working in municipal-run businesses, and the differences are increasing. In two years, the pay gap between private and municipal employees in elderly care has doubled. There's also a report to read-- so much better? – which came from Kommunal 2016. There is a need to increase staffing density in care for the elderly, but it is at least as important that those working in care for the elderly have the right skills and adequate training. There has just been an investigation – it was presented a week ago – Read me! National quality plan for care and care for elderly persons. There are a number of good proposals. I very much hope that some of them can be implemented. The investigation addresses the legitimisation of nurses as an important issue. Today, around 20% of those working in retirement homes lack proper upper secondary education from the nursing programme. The corresponding proportion in home care is 25 per cent. Much needs to be done here. Against this background, the government should mandate the appropriate authority to investigate a national training requirement for work in the care of the elderly. It is also a matter of reviewing how the training of nurses looks at the national level because it is not specifically super good. Most elderly people want to stay at home for as long as possible. But when the anxiety comes, when the visits to the emergency room become many and when the home help personnel run out and in through the doors at a fast pace it no longer works. Between 2002 and 2011, the number of places in permanent care homes, what was called housing in particular, has decreased by 20,000. Many places have disappeared. This used to be home for some infirm people. For those who today come into this type of accommodation, it is more a question of palliative departments. It's sad. We need to focus on older people who really have anxiety, are afraid and cannot live at home. I will return to that question. There is a clear pattern in the development of the elderly care of municipalities. You simply offer fewer places. Unfortunately, there is little difference between the blue municipalities and the red municipalities. It's something we have to work on together. When older people are denied a place in retirement homes and referred to home care, they can buy more services with financial resources. There's a whole market for that. You can get help with both things that home help cannot fix. It will then be a class question. In its report, the National Board of Health and Welfare writes that the possibility for older people to live in special housing has been limited during the last five years. This was written by the National Board of Health and Welfare in 2015. It's serious. The Social Services Act states that older people should live a dignified life and feel well-being and that municipalities should establish special housing arrangements for the services and care of those who need it. That law isn't used very often for real. This is a huge question. The Left Party believes that it is not reasonable for older people not to be offered a place in retirement homes when they explicitly want to move there. Concern and insecurity are no longer considered sufficient grounds for granting care. In many cases, a diagnosis of dementia is required to fit. The Left Party believes that there needs to be a review of the current assessment criteria for the granting of places in retirement homes. We want to flag this issue, and that is the reservation we are calling for. For time winning, we only ask for reservation 13. We are, of course, in favour of other reservations, and we are in favour of rejecting the other motions.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1720	Madam President, I would like The elderly issues we are discussing today concern one fifth of the population directly and indirectly all their relatives and relatives. Many people in Sweden are affected by the 72 motions and 132 motions discussed in the report. The previous speakers have gone into the broad range of the motions. They have shown that as t has improved, so if t has not improved at all and that t should be much better. The report shows how many people are employed at government level and at other levels with these issues. I counted nine government agencies that have older people on their table. It's the National Board of Health and Welfare, and so on. I won't repeat them. Then there are SKL and a variety of specialist centres, research groups and so on. The information has not been sufficiently coherent and transparent. That may be one reason why it does not come into use. Now has the report Read me! National quality plan for care for the elderly of 978 pages. Now everything is gathered, and we don't have to go out on different web pages and look for the information. There are some suggestions, but what has struck me when I have read the report and have seen the analysis of the patient law is that we know what we need to do. I think we agree across party and bloc boundaries, but why does it stop at state and national level? We write, talk and publish on websites, but why do we not reach county councils, municipalities and regions? It's slow. I have not found on these pages in-depth analyses of why it stops. Is that the money? Is it that this generation is not given sufficient priority? Is Ageism Behind? Is there a lack of coordination? Is there a lack of time? Many say that we run and run and do not have time to read and think. But we have to do that. We must therefore make use of all the knowledge for the benefit of the target group and implement many of the proposals that have been made. There have been announcements in Parliament, and we have tried to bring the information out in another way. Who gets hurt when we don't bring out the knowledge? Above all, it is the fifth of the population, the year-long people, who do not have their needs met. This also applies to their relatives and relatives. This also leads to a political denunciation, that we in this house should not listen or try to improve the situation. This also applies at the political levels in county councils and municipalities. We are not going to debate all these pages today, but I am concerned about the 2019-2034 timetable. By 2034 the proposal will be implemented. Do you think that in municipalities, county councils and regions they start today what they should have started the day before yesterday to finish in 2034? There are too many mandates away. We must work here and now to ensure that progress is made at a better pace than it has done so far. Now we are not alone in the world that things are going slowly. Already in 2002, the UN and the WHO adopted a plan for the development of life for the elderly, ranging from opportunities to work, not to be discriminated against, to health care and care in the final stages of life. There has not been much going on with this plan even beyond Sweden's borders. We have a mission in the Riksdag to follow up our decisions and that announcements are carried out in the Government Office. But we must also urge our colleagues in county councils and municipalities to take seriously what we write in the reports. I would like to round off by welcoming the announcement of a mapping of violence and abuse against the elderly, other forms of violence and honour violence. I have often said in the speaker's chair that we should not forget that men of this generation are also subjected to violence. There is a survey carried out in the Stockholm area that shows that year-rich men are as vulnerable as year-long women to violence and abuse in close relationships. I believe that part of the lack of interest in violence in this generation is because it is different from violence and abuse in younger generations, where it is mainly women who have been subjected. Of course, I support the Liberals' reservations in this report, but I am not going to insist on anything because I think that the time of this House can be better spent.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1733	Madam President, I would like I liked Barbros's summary. We agree on most of these exercises. But why does it stop? Actually, that is the big issue we should have discussed here tonight. Why does it stop? We all know what we want and we're all fairly united. Elderly care, Madam President, is facing major challenges now that the population is ageing. In order to ensure a more equal and equal care and care where people are safe and feel involved, we need to change both working methods and organisation. On Friday, the results of the major investigation commissioned by the Government were presented with proposals for a national quality plan for elderly care. There are a number of good proposals, including: 中 examine licence requirements for nurses severantly increase the number of places in health and long-term education 中 introduce new rules for unit managers in special accommodations– they will have appropriate training to be able to do that job Introduce an obligation for county councils and municipalities to jointly offer a comprehensive solution for multi-sick elderly people through multi-professional teams Introduce a national centre of excellence on older people and mental health simplifying the use of welfare technologies through a national strategy and providing incentives to municipalities that are innovative in this area 中 introduce national target targets for the number of employees per manager – today there are far too many 中 allow municipalities to decide on the introduction of simplified assistance assessment for people over 80 years of age for certain interventions, thus significantly more flexible forms of decision-making in the field of care for the elderly. The study also proposes a three-year training effort for people working with food for the elderly. That's important, too. Over the years, the Government has carried out major initiatives in the field of the elderly. An historic investment in increased staffing in care for the elderly has begun, has been decided to have staff available around the clock in care for the elderly, has implemented a large new investment aid to increase the number of places in retirement homes and has offered free outpatient care for people over 85 years of age. Many of the 130 motions deal with these very issues. Madam President, I would like The need to increase the self-determination of the elderly is a matter that many athletes raise. It is an important issue but also an obvious task for municipalities to work with. There has certainly not been enough progress. As I read this great amount of exercise, I see that many are engaged. Many sports show great interest, great knowledge and consensus across party boundaries when it comes to what needs to be changed and improved. Many sports are about increasing resources – more money. But many are also about a different approach and another way of organising care with the fairly large resources it already has. Much of what is required in the exercise is already under the responsibility of the municipalities. Nevertheless, I take the view that much more national governance of care for the elderly is needed. It must be increased in the major and important national issues, for it should not be of decisive importance in the municipality in which you live. One should know what elderly care we have in our country and what elderly care you can get and feel safe with it. One of the exercises in the large exercise booklet, the one on older people's perspective on violence in close relationships, is very much in agreement. It is approved by all parties. Violence against older women is a serious social problem that has rightly received increased attention in recent years. Violent older women find themselves in a particularly vulnerable situation, as they have been used to dealing with domestic violence to a far greater extent than younger women as something that should not be talked about with outsiders. The discovery of violence in families is also made more difficult by the fact that the signs may be mistaken for signs of natural aging. Some relatives' difficulty in accepting that Dad beats Mom makes it even more complicated. The fact that Mom may want to divorce Dad after a long marriage is also hard to accept for some relatives. In order to detect this as early as possible, people working with older people need much more knowledge so that they recognise the signs of violence. Here it is important that there is also education for all the substitutes who are working in the care of the elderly. You may also need financial assistance and help to get away from your partner. There is much to improve here. Madam President, I would like So we support the announcement of violence against the elderly. Older people are not a homogeneous group; we all know that. Yet older people are treated as a collective. But not everyone becomes exactly the same overnight when they become old-age pensioners. The right to continue deciding over one's life is greatly curtailed on the day one needs a little help to cope with everyday life. That is totally unacceptable. It is not really primarily about deciding which company to get help from. It doesn't help a damn thing. It is about what everyday life should contain, what you want help with and when you want to move to a special accommodation. We know today that it is rarely the elderly themselves who choose to move out of their home without being pushed by relatives. In addition, aid decisions today are far too different between our municipalities, which creates great concern. In the large towns it is a very short time you live in retirement homes while in the rural municipalities you may live for many years. I am convinced that there would be no rush to special accommodations if the demand for aid were fully released so that the elderly could choose for themselves when they want to move to a place of residence. Most people want to stay at home as long as it ever goes and maybe even a little too long. There would be no rush, but it would provide great security. Madam President, I would like To smell freshly prepared food should be a matter of course, not least for our elderly. Food is not only a matter of survival but also something that is both preventive and helps to keep us healthy, happy and alert. However, it does not help that the nutritional content is good if the food is not appetizing and the meal situation is boring, boring and perhaps lonely. You should actually have a longing for the meals, and you should have a choice between several different options. There shall be yummy and good snacks available throughout the day for the elderly, and meals shall be served on the basis of the elderly and not on the staff schedule, which takes place many times today. We know that both dizziness, falling, some diseases, and depression are in many cases the result of a bad food situation and a generally boring life. I think it's over to run food in plastic boxes across and across, or to pick up food from stainless steel canteens when the elderly are going to eat. Food should be eaten in community at nice table set. Food, quality of life and well-being are connected. Malnutrition is at least as serious as obesity in our country, not least among our elderly. Changing it is not always something that costs big money. It's more about commitment, knowledge and interest. When you do the aid assessment, I think it should be a matter of course that someone with nutrition skills is included to ensure that the right goods are bought home to the elderly's refrigerator based on the specific needs of the elderly. It is not certain that they always correspond with what you have done before in your life. New goods have arrived, and there are a few other needs. Madam President, I would like Today we have good care for the elderly in terms of quality, I think. The bursting headlines about neglect in the care of the elderly that we occasionally meet are not at all part of everyday life. But what is lacking today is the possibility of a good life of joy and meaningfulness. There must be time for things that you want to do, that you have previously been used to or that you now want to do when you live in a dwelling. It can be anything from baking a cake to carpentry, playing on the trot or staying out watching birds or putting on a little in a garden country – all depending on your energy, ability and ability. We know that mental illness among our elderly is incredibly high. Madam President, I would like A number of movements from most parties raise the issue of the rights and opportunities of older people to influence their everyday lives in the care of the elderly; they are too small. I fully agree with that. Today it is written that our elderly should have a reasonable level of living, and this concept wants many athletes to change to a good level of living – that you get more say in your everyday life. The Social Services Act is now very old, and a review and revision will be made to adapt it to today's needs. It has been patched and fixed for many years, so this issue has to be worked into that mission. A long-awaited change is the proposal to introduce simplified decision-making, which is very much requested by the municipalities. This means that care measures can be offered to older people without carrying out an individual examination. This is positive for the elderly, who can decide for themselves when they want the stakes. It increases participation and self-determination, and it also prevents and relieves relatives. The municipalities also save a lot on administration, which can be used for care instead. Hopefully, this will also give staff and users more time together. In conclusion, Madam President, we have good care for the elderly in our country, but society is developing and changing at a rapid pace and therefore also the demand – what we want and what is a worthy care for the elderly of today's pensioners and future generations. We must have care that is responsive to the needs and wishes of the elderly. It should be humble, stimulating, open to relatives, flexible, accessible and safe. I support the announcement and rejection of the motions.
i-d299eb6ffd2079c9-1774	Madam President, I would like The red-green feminist government continues the long-term, patient work of making Sweden an even better country to live in. The Swedish model, which is characterised by joint and several responsibility, is the very basis for the welfare so many other countries would like to share with us. A protection system from the cradle to the grave gives the individual the opportunity, courage and strength to develop their full potential for the benefit of the whole of society, development and growth. Elderly care is a central area in this welfare building. The Social Affairs Committee's report 9 on older people is a motion report dealing with claims from the general exercise period 2015 and 2016. Madam President, I would like Coming as the last speaker means that much is likely to be repeated. The quality of care for the elderly not only affects the elderly themselves but, as has already been said, also their relatives. But let us not forget, too, that we are all slowly on the way to a hopefully well-deserved and eventful old age. The elderly are, therefore, something that affects everyone and should therefore be genuinely involved. In 2015, over 300 000 people had a home service or lived in a special housing facility for the elderly. Most often the debate is about the situation of the elderly and the quality of the different housing. However, at least as important is the issue of the quality of home care, as most elderly people are affected by this form of support. In addition to an additional 10 billion annually to the local government sector, for example to enable municipalities to localise their efforts in the care of the elderly, the Environmental Party, the Social Democrats and the Left Party in the budget for 2016–2018 have put in further investments of an additional 2 billion annually specifically at the care of the elderly in order to have more staff around the municipalities. More staff creates space to, for example, increase the quality of meals, give more time to outdoor stays and in different ways design care according to the needs and desires of the elderly. However, there are still shortcomings in care for the elderly, and there are major challenges for the future. Therefore, in 2015, the Government appointed a national investigator to develop proposals that can contribute to, and facilitate for, the municipalities to meet all these challenges. It is not just a question of increasing life expectancy, which we consider to be fundamentally very positive and desirable, leading to an increase in staffing needs in the care of the elderly and that competition for the workforce is tough when there is a shortage of labour in so many sectors of society. It is also about the organisation and content of the business. We need to strengthen the development towards an elderly care that is equal and safe and is characterized by increased participation and influence if both the users and the staff are to feel that the business is right and the one they have the right to expect. In order to support the municipalities, which are de facto those responsible for care for the elderly, the state can of course do more than simply provide financial resources. Here are some examples of measures taken by the government to contribute to further positive developments in the field of older people: The Government, in collaboration with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils and the Association of Municipal Workers, has started work to strengthen the supply of skills in the care of the elderly. The aim is, among other things, to make it easier for those in care who have a lower level of education to become nurses. The Government has examined the conditions for a national quality plan for elderly care. The Swedish Institute for Standardisation has been given an increased mandate and funding to develop national standards for quality assurance of, among other things, elderly care. The Government has also commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to develop measures to develop primary care so that it is better adapted to the needs of the elderly. Violence against older women, which I think everyone has talked about, has also been highlighted, including through assignments to the National Board of Health and Welfare, assignments to the National Centre for Women's Peace and, not least, the work begun to establish an equality authority. This, Madam President, was just a few examples of action, and last week the national investigator, Susanne Rolfner Suvanto, came up with her proposals to ensure and improve the quality of care for the elderly. Madam President, I would like I call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
