i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-0	Mr President, I would like to Uncertainty spreads over Sweden. The power of criminal gangs is increasing at the expense of honest citizens' security in our vulnerable areas, sexual crimes are increasing alarmingly rapidly and international theft leagues are now looking at Sweden as a smorgasbord for their business. On top of that, we have a police authority in crisis. Although the vast majority agree that we need more policemen, departures are increasing and the number of police officers is falling. Mr President, I would like to I believe that Sweden is facing a choice of path. Either we continue along the path of security erosion, where organised crime strengthens its grip in our vulnerable areas, or we forcefully upgrade the Swedish rule of law. The Moderates are now seeking support for the largest investment in law and order in over 20 years. It is about investments in increased funding for the whole legal system but also about increased powers to the police in order to combat crime. It is about past and more effective preventive measures. It's about a penitentiary that reduces recidivism. It is also a question of more stringent penalties. Victims are the starting point of Moderate justice policy. We believe that penalties must better reflect the seriousness of the crime. It is time to raise the penalties also for the lifestyle criteria. It's about the organized gangs that unscrupulously commit crimes against our elders all over the country. It's about the man or men who commit sex crimes and repeatedly relapse into crime. It is about the criminal gangs that take control of the vulnerable areas and put law and order on exceptions. For these, we need to tighten the penalties. We believe that an effort on law and order is about having a whole in a policy that is both value-based and effective. But yes, it is also about resources. In our draft budget, the Moderates want to spend 10 billion on the police over the next three years and nearly 12 billion on the whole justice system. It is efforts that are absolutely necessary for us to achieve a locally present police force, for security to increase and for us to be able to take control of the affected areas. We Moderates give priority to the whole rule of law. Unlike the government, we invest in the courts instead of saving. We're sending more funds to the District Attorney's Office and the Swedish Financial Crimes Agency to bring more people to justice. Due to increased terrorist threats, we also want to strengthen the Security Service. The path of the Moderates is clear – we put the core state before funding increased subsidies. The contract between citizens and states is based on a security that benefits everyone. It requires a functioning and locally present police force throughout the country. During the Alliance's time in power, we therefore decided that Sweden would have at least 20 000 police officers, and the number of police officers increased. But the first thing this government did was to abandon the basic requirement of 20,000 police officers. Despite political talk from the Minister of Justice and Home Affairs about more policemen, reality speaks a different language. There will be fewer police officers with this government despite the fact that we have a population increase. I believe that the police and security crisis is probably the biggest failure of the government. The problem is that Sweden does not succeed now to reverse the development, the effects can be very far-reaching and difficult to repair. It's very fast to undermine trust in a society. But it takes a long time to restore it. Mr President, I would like to What we are now debating is at the heart of all policies, the size and direction of the budget. I would argue that if we are to reach targets of 10,000 more police workers, it requires that we manage to keep experienced and skilled police officers while at the same time attracting record numbers to want to become police officers. Then it is not good enough to say no to targeted investments for increased police salaries. We Moderates set aside funds to raise police wages by an average of $1,000 a month. It will be necessary, and not least, it is right, given that today's policemen are working hard to keep us safe. It is also about better equipment for the country's police officers. It is about better powers and better opportunities to prosecute many of the criminals that we need to put behind bars and bars. Therefore, we want to make a targeted effort that will give us the opportunity for camera surveillance in all particularly vulnerable areas in Sweden. We believe that the greatest violation of privacy is being subjected to a crime. We must put better muscles behind our legal policy. Now is not the time to sit and wait and investigate. Now is the time to act. In the light of the gravity of the situation, Sweden needs to give priority to the rule of law over increased contributions. That Sweden has 61 vulnerable areas, shootings in line with those in southern Italy and recurring hand grenade attacks against the police are, my friends, not normal. It's a catastrophic development. I wonder: Is there a sense of crisis among government parties? Does the government really understand the seriousness of what is currently happening in Sweden? We politicians have a responsibility neither to black out nor to portray reality. Let's see it as it is. We will convey a correct picture of Sweden. And yes, it can be about a Sweden in a boom. It can be about some groups in society doing very well. It can be about the shootings in Bishopsgården now decreasing as a result of an important police operation that put a number of criminals behind bars. This is a correct picture of Sweden. But a correct picture of Sweden is also that the number of vulnerable areas is increasing, that the shootings are increasing in some areas and that the exposure to sexual offences has doubled in two years. Last year alone, 70 000 young women between the ages of 16 and 24 were involved. It is about a Sweden where shop owners are forced to shut down their business due to threats and violence. In short, and more seriously, it is a matter of a state of law that is retreating. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates do not believe in exploiting social problems, but we do not sweep them under the carpet either. We see and recognise the problems and we propose effective measures. We believe in effective crime prevention: efforts that reduce the power of gangs but also go deeper into the local community. We must, in fact, uproot exclusion, freedom and crime. Klan and honour structures must be broken. The school must make demands and give everyone the opportunity to succeed, regardless of the background. The dependency on subsidies must be reduced. Choosing an honest livelihood should always pay better than choosing a grant. That goes without saying. But it must also be taken for granted that it will be harder to choose to continue living a criminal life. We in Sweden must better stand up for all the honest and law-abiding people in our vulnerable areas who also deserve security. Mr President, I would like to We in the Alliance show with our proposals that we have realised the seriousness of the situation, that we are prepared to do what is necessary and that we can work together to achieve the goal of a safer Sweden. This is in stark contrast to a historically weak government, which has put forward too few strong proposals in the area of justice to face a criminality that is spreading. In connection with this budget report, the Alliance in the Committee on Justice will have contributed to the Swedish Parliament's taking over 100 decisions in the area of justice with calls to the Government. For example, it is about increasing the police presence in our vulnerable areas, introducing a special code of conduct for honour crimes and ensuring that the police are visible and locally present throughout the country. These are important steps that together contribute to making Sweden better. However, there are also issues where we do not yet reach a majority in favour of our policy, and I would therefore like to take this opportunity to call for the joint reservations of the Alliance under paragraphs 19 and 23. Finally, Sweden is facing a road choice. On September 9, next year, the Moderates and the Alliance are seeking the support of the Swedish people to replace this government, increase people's security and give Sweden a stronger rule of law.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-24	Mr President, I would like to The debate today is about the Committee on Justice's part in the 2018 Budget Bill – a budget that contains major efforts to strengthen the overall welfare that is both a signum for Sweden and very important in the quest to have a safe country and a Sweden that holds together. However, the budget also includes major investments in the area in which we are responsible, especially in the police. If we are to have a safe Sweden, we need both an inclusive welfare policy and a strategic and determined crime prevention and law enforcement work. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights to be approved and for all motions and reservations to be rejected except for reservation 31. Of course, we are in favour of this reservation, but we are abstaining for time-winning to ask for its approval. For us Social Democrats, it is urgent to prevent crime. It is essential that more crimes are prevented, and it is important that more crimes are cleared up. This applies whether it is a daily crime, serious organised crime or terrorism. In a democratic society, any kind of crime is unacceptable. That everyone should feel secure no matter where you live is the foundation of a welfare state. That is why immediate and decisive action is needed to put an end to violence, particularly in vulnerable areas. But then it's also a matter of thinking and acting long-term, because crime prevention and law enforcement are long-term work. It is a matter of persevering, and it is important that the police are present, but also that civil and social measures should be taken. Mr President, I would like to In this budget, we are making the greatest effort on the police in the 21st century. We have increased, and will continue to increase, the number of places in police training. This year 1 300 students have started their education. That should have been 1,600, because that's the number of seats. It is not good that the seats are not filled, and therefore the government has commissioned the agency to review what measures are needed to increase the capacity of the admission process, which I will return to. For example, in order to strengthen the police's working environment, we are reviewing the criminal law protection of bluelight personnel. As an effort to reduce crime, especially in socially vulnerable areas, we have tightened the penalties for, among other things, possession of weapons and explosives. We also see that the interaction between authorities has an effect. We are also working to increase the possibilities for police and security police to have tools that work – camera surveillance and secret data reading – and to modernise the legal process. However, we also need to increase the knowledge of our authorities, including on the new sex crime legislation and on new witness support. But, Mr President, in the best of worlds, no crimes are committed. This must be the goal of society as a whole. That is why crime prevention is so vitally important, and it must go on on a broad front and involve not only the judicial authorities, but also municipalities, business and civil society organisations. It is important to take early action for young people who are about to fall into crime and to review the public environment and ensure that there is lighting in streets and squares. We also know that the best crime prevention measure is a functioning school. Half the Justice Committee was in the United States during the fall. I myself was not present, but all the Members who took part in the trip testify to the fact that the answer they received when they raised the question of what was most important in preventing crime was precisely a basic, good school and good opportunities for further training. Giving people a good foundation to stand on, a belief in the future and an opportunity for livelihood and a stable social life – it prevents crime. Unfortunately, however, we still have those who commit crimes, and a central part of crime prevention is also prevention of relapse. The trend over time is that relapses are decreasing. The prison services have developed their work in the prisons, but it is also important that there are lock-in groups – an opportunity to get support and help when you get out – and a functioning and good drop-off activity when you want to leave a life in crime. The report contains eleven announcements, which may in fact seem completely unnecessary. The government and the committee fully agree on the need for clear and measurable targets for police operations, and in the 2017 regulation letter, the police have been commissioned, among other things, to ensure that the follow-up of the activities is further developed, concreted and implemented. The government parties and the opposition agree that there should be a locally-based, present and visible police throughout the country and an increased police presence in socially vulnerable areas, as it does. In 2016, there were more police officers in the socially vulnerable areas than in 2015. That is why we have increased the number of places in police training. We all know that there is a shortage of trained police officers. We have given the agency a number of assignments and in 2018 added an additional SEK 2 billion to strengthen its operations. As regards the Code of Conduct for Honorary Motives, the National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with carrying out specific surveys of issues related to honor-related violence and repression, and the letter A national strategy for preventing and combating violence against women presents a ten-year strategy. Increasing and developing the competence of the judicial authorities in various areas is an important and natural part of their development work. If there is no disagreement. Here, Brå has an important task to develop data to support and develop the work both in terms of new ways of working and method development and when it comes to seeing where new knowledge is needed. We also know that, for example, the Police Authority and Å complain about the agency jointly trained staff for crimes against children, violence in close relationships and sexual crimes against adults. It is important that the authorities cooperate so that one authority knows and can continue the work that the other has begun. The Victims Directive requires a stronger information obligation to the plaintiff, and the Victims' Agency has also been tasked with reviewing the measures that need to be taken. Among other things, they highlight the development of a new website, and the police work to develop methodological support and guidelines, but also to be able to do risk analysis in the event of threats and violence. That victims of crime receive feedback should be a natural part of law enforcement work. The fact that children have a relevant education is important, and police interrogators must also today have completed and passed a two-stage training course under the direction of the P olishögskolan in order to hold hearings. This should also have an impact throughout the judiciary, we fully agree on that, and here the model of children's houses is an important success factor. When it comes to combating drug crime, the police are working to spread good and successful examples and to have methodological support with a focus mainly on early detection in young people. Mr President, I would like to All these announcements are hard to say no to or to reserve against. A great deal has been done over these years. There is a lot of improvement work going on, but there is also much more to be done. That is why we have a united committee on these announcements. What we have reservations about, however, is the announcement of a review by the Recruiting Authority. We are as keen as the majority in committee that the places of education be filled. On 20 July, the Government commissioned the Police Authority to strengthen the supply of skills, and the Agency submitted a report on 13 November, focusing on increased capacity in the admission process. The report contains measures both in the short and long term that both the Police Authority and the Recruiting Authority will continue to work on. We believe that the problem needs to be addressed, but also that the issue is taken care of and that a review of the authorities is not the solution needed to get the places of education filled. We also note that the Recruiting Authority is under the remit of the Committee on Defence, which makes it extremely doubtful that we from the Committee on Justice can go in with such a request even if the Office also handles recruitment to an authority that is under our jurisdiction. With this, Mr President, I would once again like to support the proposal contained in the report.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-48	Mr President, I would like to I welcome the fact that Helene Petersson is talking hotly about the need for more police officers, because this is important for Sweden. But in view of this, why was it so important for the government parties to remove the basic requirement of 20 000 police officers? And how does Helene Petersson view the development that with this government we have fewer police officers even though the population is increasing? I also note that Helene Petersson has raised something that I think is a common concern for us, that is, we have empty chairs in police training. That is a serious problem. Regardless of the targets that can be set for how many more police officers we want, we will not have enough police if we do not fill up the training places. I note that reference is made to the fact that a mandate has now been given to the authority to consider why there are empty chairs in police training. My question, therefore, is this: cannot increased police salaries be important to ensure that we have a record number of applicants for police training? And why is it so important for government parties to say no to targeted spending on increased police salaries?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-51	Mr President, I would like to The fact that we removed the demand for 20 000 police officers was because we felt that it was the authority that had to decide what skills it needed. However, during the entire term of office we have continuously contributed money to the Police Authority to give the agency the opportunity to hire. It must be the Police Authority that decides what skills you need. Another problem in this is that the number of places in police training during your time in the government did not increase. There is a backlog of what we are seeing now. Since we have two and a half years of training, it takes a number of years before we have trained police officers. We have a police shortage in the country, and we have fixed that by doubling the number of seats. Every six months, 600 students are admitted to police training instead of 300 students. We have now increased the number to 800, and if we are to achieve the target of 10,000 more police workers by 2024, we will have to bring in 1 000 students at each admission. We make this possible by increasing the number of places in existing schools, which we in turn make possible by increasing the number of schools to five from three. As far as wages are concerned, it is a matter for the parties. It is the authority and trade unions that are to conclude an agreement. We give them the conditions by sending more resources.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-55	Mr President, I would like to The truth is that during the year of the Alliance, the number of policemen trained could vary from year to year. It is clear that we must ensure that there are enough, but the basic problem is not how many police training we have. I think that it is a sensible effort from the government to increase the number of universities for this, but the problem is that we have empty chairs. The analysis of this will conclude that it is clear that police wages need to be included as a factor. When we talk about, for example, the teachers, who are also very important to our society, the government believes that targeted wage initiatives are absolutely necessary in order to get more people to apply for teacher training, and then the state is not even the principal. But in this case, when we have a rule of law on the ground, the government says flatly no and refers to the social partners. What our call by the Alliance is about is to provide funds so that the social partners can ensure that police wages are increased. That's how we get the number of police officers up on our training courses. Again, does Helene Petersson, with her hand on his heart, think that we can reach the target of 10,000 more police employees without raising police salaries?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-59	Mr President, I would like to I am convinced that police salaries will be increased. But it is not for us in Parliament to make that decision. And it is not the government that should make that decision. It is up to the social partners to do so. And we're gonna give them the opportunity to do it. I do not believe that it is only wages that lead to abstinence. At the last time of admission there were 9 300 people who applied. As a result, however, not all places were filled by the end of the day. I recommend that Tomas Tobé read this report which I show to the Members of this House. The police authority has in it picked out how the capacity in the admission process should be increased, what the problem is and why you register as an applicant but do not show up on the tests. Do you need a call or text that reminds you? Is there anything else that leads to not taking the offered place? The police and the Recruiting Authority have begun to look at it. It's a very important process. We have training places. Then there's no reason not to fill them. I have full confidence that the police have seen the problem and are as keen as Tomas Tobé and I that it will work. So you're going to keep working on it.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-63	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the last budget report before it is time to go to elections, and that is evident. All of a sudden, there are huge efforts from certain parties, especially the police authorities. Where was the commitment when the police in the country needed it most? A single party has, throughout its term of office, made major efforts to strengthen not only the police but the whole chain of justice. It's the Swedish Democrats. The budgetary efforts of all the other parties have been in line with the results we can see in society today. If the Moderates had had sole power in Sweden during this term of office, we would have had exactly the same number of police officers as now that we have a red-green government. The Moderates and the rest of the Alliance did not think there was a need to train more police officers at the beginning of their term of office. On the contrary, they criticised the Swedish Democrats' commitment to 7 000 new police officers and thought that the police could indeed work more effectively. That was what it sounded like at the beginning of the term of office. Now there's another sound in the bark. Although we welcome the advance of other parties, a credibility problem naturally arises when the biggest efforts made are aimed at giving effect only after the next elections. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats have not only been the first driving force for the Police Authority and the basic conditions of the judiciary through proposals for increased funding and new leadership. We have also been able to exercise political influence on every occasion. It has sometimes cost us prestige and has often led to media shadow for us, for the benefit of the Alliance. But we have always chosen to act with the utmost respect for the expectations of our constituents. Following this budget report, we have delivered over 100 announcements to the government. This has been possible because the Alliance has been close to the Swedish Democrats or has approached the Swedish Democrats in some proposals. Then we have been able to settle matters in committee by showing our support. Of course, we could have done much more and earlier in the parliamentary term. Every announcement is based on the fact that the Swedish democrats have shown support for a common form of alliance, never the other way round. One example is when the Swedish Democrats alone exercised to remove the penalty discount for adults between 18 and 21 years of age. Then the Moderates chose to vote against, even though they wanted to remove that particular discount. Then we had to wait a year so that the Moderates and the Alliance could write their own motion, which we then had to support so that an announcement could be made. Now, last November 13, the Moderates announced at a press conference that they want to see a new mission to the Crime Prevention Council to map sexual crimes and origins. In the absence of a proposal on this matter, we raised this issue in committee, and on 30 November, the Moderates voted against the proposal to commission the Crime Prevention Council to identify sexual crimes and origins, only because the Swedish Democrats were the sender of the proposal. Mr President, I would like to The kind of anxiety, which has passed through the December agreement and continued strategies not to bring down the government budget, which between shipyards is revealed by voting against their own convictions, depending on who wrote the proposal, leads me to a question. We can honestly look our voters in the eye and say that we have taken their votes seriously and that at any given time we have done what we have been able to do to meet their expectations. Can the Alliance honestly say that they have acted the same way? Mr President, I would like to Unlike other parties' numbers, the ambition of the Swedish democrats lies firmly in the run-up to the election of who wants to train the most police officers. We still want to see 7 000 new police officers at an educational rate leading to an end date in 2024. Then, as we have done throughout the term of office, we propose that the number of police officers should correlate with demographic trends with a figure of 250 police officers per 100 000 inhabitants. In total, we want to see an increased allocation for the police by 1.4 billion compared to the government. And in order to achieve the goal that more people should go to the police profession and that more police officers should go back, we will, among other things, set aside 650 million in a targeted salary effort, to enable what has been discussed before, namely to raise police salaries. We want to set aside 200 million for the reconstruction of police equipment. We also set aside 20 million to reinstall the emergency police force that the Alliance shut down during its reign. Witness protection also needs to be strengthened. In addition to strong proposals to introduce anonymous witnesses, we want to allocate resources to strengthen witness protection in general, with SEK 25 million for the following year. We have also seen the need to increase the capacity of the National Task Force and set aside SEK 50 million for it. In addition, we have a high and ambitious target of training more police officers and of allocating 300 million to hire more civilian workers. Mr President, I would like to Although more parties are now investing more money than the government at the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Democrats still stand out by us investing more money than the government in virtually all areas of expenditure within our area of responsibility. When the Liberals invest 10 million more and the Moderates 9 million – I think it was – on the Swedish Security Service, the Swedish Democrats invest 110 million more. Nor is it a new initiative from the Swedish Democrats. The mission of the Security Service has been increasingly strained throughout its term of office, not least after the government has allowed hundreds of trained and trained terrorists into our country. For us, it is clear that the mission of the Security Service will be upgraded. We also invest more resources in the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office, the Swedish Financial Crime Agency, the Swedish Criminal Service, the Swedish Crime Prevention Council and not least the Swedish Crime Victims Agency. In many of these areas of expenditure, some alliance parties cut back on appropriations compared with the government. You can't put all the eggs in a basket. If you strengthen the police, the rest of the legal chain must also follow. It may not give very tough newspaper headlines to spend half a billion extra on the Prison Service. Perhaps that is why the Liberals want to reduce those very appropriations. But it's all connected. We need to strengthen the Prison Service, not only because our policy would lead to more criminals in prison but also in order to enable continued quality work to reduce the risk of recidivism. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats are not only the party that would really break down the criminal networks that have grown strong under blue and red-green governments. We also stand up for the police, by investing in better pay and working conditions, but also by pointing the finger at those who go after the police. Attacks on blue-light personnel should be classified as particularly serious assault, i.e. leading to a minimum sentence of four years in prison. We are not just a party that stands up for the Swedish police. We are a party that stands up for the whole chain of justice to work. Finally, I would like to say that we support all of our reservations and our specific opinion. But I choose to apply for only reservation 41 on the tatistics of the origin and nationality of the perpetrators. Then the Moderates will have a chance to show if they really want a new mission to the Crime Prevention Council on sexual crimes and origin. However, my guess is that they will be voting against here too.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-84	Mr President, I would like to We are debating and deciding on this budget at a time when the legal system in Sweden is facing a challenge. Those of us who may be daily in so - called vulnerable areas know that it is not easy. The police have a difficult job, and you are challenged by forces. This applies, among other things, to shootings. The justice system faces challenges to face these shootings, to find witnesses, to inspire trust and to build our society. These are challenges, but blacking out is dangerous. There I can agree with Tomas Tobés's description when he said that you should not black paint, but that you should not paint. No, we're not supposed to paint. It's about the challenge. That is why the S- and MP government's budget looks like it does with big bets on the police. We need more police in this country, and we agree on that. The government and the opposition agree on a great deal. My colleague Helene Petersson went well through all the announcements where we from the government are behind ten of these. When the opposition wants an announcement about things that the government is already doing, we are not against drawing the attention of the government to the fact that it is already being done. For time winning, I refrain from acquiescating our reservation 31, but of course I support it. We need more cops, and we agree on that. Then we can discuss how many are needed. I do not think it makes sense to establish precise figures. Above all, we're going to fill the seats at the police colleges. I am concerned that some things are being blacked out today. We're blacking out some of the police's working conditions. Perhaps not primarily we parties, but the media are blacking out the pressure and conditions, and that will not help to increase the number of police officers. I recognise the tendencies of the discussion about the teaching profession, and it has not led to more teachers. It was only when we started to talk a little more positively about the possibilities of the teaching profession that we got an influx. That is why I would like to warn against this. We respect the police. If one were to ask a person on the street, I think he or she would express a high regard for the police's work. That is what is important, to highlight the work of the police, to allocate resources so that there can be more police officers and an attractive profession. That is what the government has done when it has commissioned the Police Authority to review career opportunities. It is not the case that we government parties say no to higher wages, but we do not want to regulate and take over the work of the parties in detail. We provide resources, and then the parties get to do the rest. That's an important difference from controlling detail. Yes, we want to create better working conditions, but the Riksdag should not go in and poke into different pieces. To tackle the development of crime, to provide security in vulnerable areas and to increase confidence in our judicial system, more police officers are needed, and that is what this budget is all about. Then there is a positive thing that I think we should pay much more attention to, and that is the development of the Prison Service. It has been possible to reduce relapses. It is amazing that they have managed to reduce relapses by 10 percent. That's the big difference for people on the street. Of the criminals in prison, 10 percent will not relapse into crime. They will not continue shooting, committing assault or breaking and entering. That's where we see the future. I would like to introduce a new concept into the debate: profitable punishment from a societal point of view. What is the most profitable punishment from a social point of view? Yes, it is the punishment that causes criminals never to commit crimes again. It is not necessarily the longest punishment. There will easily be a debate in this House about there being tougher penalties. Yes, I may feel that sometimes more severe punishment is justified. We decided on tougher penalties for the illegal handling of hand grenades the other day in this House. That was great. For my part, we can also decide on tougher penalties if it is profitable from a societal perspective, if it prevents more people from committing crimes. But then this should be verified by research, so that we know how to prevent relapse. It would be a future policy in the area of penitentiary and the rule of law to prevent more criminals. The Committee on Justice was on a US trip a month ago. We visited Baltimore, a city with the worst gang crime in the United States. We were asked: Why do you come here? You guys are so much better off than us. Our answer was that we went there because we don't want us to get what they have. We want to learn how to prevent. I asked the question: What is your best tip to prevent this development? Then the answer was: Invest in education! It has already been mentioned once in this House, and I would like to repeat it once again: there is nothing as important as education, especially in our vulnerable areas. I would like to send a piece of advice to the opposition parties: review your budgets when it comes to education policy! There are several parties that want to reduce these efforts. I am particularly concerned about the resistance that exists in the Alliance right now with regard to the read-write-count guarantee. I think it would be perfect for increasing training efforts in vulnerable areas and identifying at an early stage those who need support. We need more policemen, more profitable and effective penalties from a societal perspective and an education system that creates ideals other than gang crime. I support the committee's proposal in the report. Then I support reservation 31, but I do not support it.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-103	Mr President, I would like to Mats Pertoft points out that we need to talk a lot about the police profession. There's a lot to it. I see a lot of cops, basically every week. The vast majority of police officers are committed and want to do good work for society, but there are too few police officers to be able to face the crime that is spreading in society. I therefore have a few questions for Mats Pertoft. How does he see that with this government there will be fewer police officers? What analysis do you have of what you have achieved during your years of government when we in Sweden have received fewer police officers and at the same time there have been more police officers who feel that they do not have enough colleagues? I have heard that the Social Democrats have previously made promises of 10,000 more police workers. That's good. I share that ambition. My direct question to Mats Pertoft is: Is the Green Party behind the target of 10,000 more police workers? Finally, I know that Mats Pertoft is basically a teacher himself. How is it that the government thinks that it is the right policy to have targeted wage initiatives for teachers, where the state is not even the principal, but that it says "no" when it comes to the police? Why is it so difficult for government parties to understand that in addition to a proper investment in the grant to the Police Authority, a targeted investment is also needed for increased police salaries?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-107	Mr President, I would like to Tomas Tobé asks me what we should do about fewer people applying for police training. Of course, we should make education as attractive as possible. For example, we still have concerns about whether there should be higher education. There have been investigations into this. The government is watching if there will be more training places. Work is ongoing on this issue. When it comes to how many cops we need, I don't want to lock myself up at 10,000. It could be about 15,000 or less, or even more; we'll have more cops. I'm saying the police authorities should determine the exact number. The fact that the Government and the Riksdag are to ensure that there are sufficient resources to increase the number of police officers and police employees is a completely different matter. Regarding the teachers' salaries, we in Sweden have the order that the parties negotiate on salaries. But after years of debate, the government decided to make an exception with the teacher wage initiative. However, the exception cannot be allowed to become the rule, which in this case would be for the government to set wages. I believe that the authorities and trade unions should negotiate wages. We shall, however, ensure that we budget so that there are resources, and so does this government.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-110	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mats Pertoft. It is, of course, the social partners who place wages on the Swedish labour market. I have found nothing in the government's policy that says that it is now the government itself that sets the salaries of Sweden's teachers. I believe that the government's view is that it is the social partners who do so. On the other hand, the government and the Alliance agree that we want to raise teachers' salaries. It is an important investment for the future, including in our policy area, to ensure that schools are good, especially in vulnerable areas. But with all due respect, government policy does not go together. The only explanation must be that this is not the government's priority. That's the honest answer, isn't it? How serious is the government's view of fewer police officers? In fact, the first thing the government did was to remove the target of 20,000 police officers. Now the number is falling. When the police now say in desperation that they need more colleagues, one of the government parties says that it has a beautiful goal of more police officers but is not prepared to do anything about police wages. This doesn't make any sense. That is why I wonder: does Mats Pertoft really think that the academy of police training, Mr President, is what will have a record number of applicants for police training? Or could it be that massively raised police salaries are what it takes to keep experienced policemen and can attract record numbers to want to become police?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-114	Mr President, I would like to The government has commissioned the Police Authority to look widely at how to improve opportunities for the police. You should look at everything from career opportunities to different ways to make the profession more attractive. This does not exclude wages, but it is not just about wages. What I hear from cops is that it's about a lot of different pieces. The major organisational change that the police have gone through in a good way must be rectified. You have to listen to the employees and make the profession as a whole more attractive. You can't just stare blindly at wages. Just listen to the teachers' discussion! Although their salaries have been substantially increased, the debate has not stopped. There are many other pieces as well. The police authorities have now been given a mandate to review the situation and return to the government. That's how you work wide. One might also ask what would happen with one bet after another. In the end, it will be the state that puts wages everywhere. I didn't mean to. Instead, it is a question of giving resources to the Police Authority, as we do in this budget, so that it can then go ahead and look at how to improve opportunities and working conditions for the police in general. This is how we find the roads, not by central government on the part of Parliament.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-117	Mr President, I would like to Responsibility for ensuring people's safety and security is one of the most important tasks of the state. Solving the task requires a reduction in the number of offences, a reduction in police intervention during the course of the crime and an investigation of the offences carried out and a conviction of the perpetrators. The security is also that the laws are clear and the rule of law high so that no one is convicted of crimes that have not been committed. The police must be present, accessible and visible to people throughout the country. It should have a long-term mandate to work locally, and the police should work as far as possible with tasks linked to the local area where you have a high level of knowledge. Security should be protected throughout the country, whether you live in the countryside, in the big city or in one of the areas we call alienation areas. For every crime committed, insecurity increases. At the same time, surveys show that confidence in the police is decreasing. This combination risks affecting trust in the rule of law. To counter such developments, strong efforts are needed to increase local police presence, to increase resources to investigate crimes committed and other protective measures. The high level of confidence in the judiciary and the stability of the rule of law and the defence of people's rights and freedoms in the country are fundamental. Sweden is basically a safe and secure country, but the concerns that are spreading must be taken very seriously. Our security requires a local police officer and a judiciary that is equipped to deal with crime. More effective action is needed against serious crime, everyday crime and violence against women. In addition, further action is needed against terrorism and radicalisation, as well as against control and crime in the name of honour. The police have a central role to play in prosecuting, limiting and solving crime. The engaged employees in the Swedish police force are many, but the police officers who find the work situation difficult and consider abandoning their profession are increasing. In our budget motion, we in the Center Party propose a substantial increase in resources to the police in order to guarantee the local presence of the police and increase the number of police hours worked, raise the wages of the hard-working police officers and create the conditions for better working conditions and a better working environment. The police and the other judiciary must be locally based. Among other things, the intention behind the new national police authority was that more police officers would work closer to citizens, entrepreneurs and municipalities. However, developments in many parts of the country have gone in the opposite direction. It is not sustainable that local police officers and other local police workers are constantly transferred to other tasks such as border controls, gang shootings or other serious criminality. Protecting and strengthening citizens' confidence in the police requires that the police not only work with serious crime but also channel resources to work on more everyday crime such as vandalism, theft and bus driving. A locally-based police force is also an important tool in the fight against terrorism, as local anchoring is a prerequisite for the prevention and detection of individuals at risk of radicalisation. Mr President, I would like to Regardless of where you live in Sweden, you should be able to feel confident that the police are present. The police should be locally anchored, and the residents should know who the local police are. With continuity and experienced police officers who stay long on the same service, it is easier to work long-term with contact-making, crime prevention and security-building measures. Therefore, the Center Party wants to invest SEK 9.8 billion over the next three years in the police, including strengthening the police's work against terrorism. The Center Party proposes that the Police Authority be added SEK 1,680 million in 2018 in order to train and hire more police officers as well as to hire more civilian employees. This investment corresponds to approximately 1 800 more police employees in 2018. The Center Party proposes that the Police Authority be added SEK 700 million a year to enable an investment in police officers' salaries. The investment corresponds to an increase in salary of an average of SEK 2 000 per month for 22,000 police officers. I wish it was more, but that's pretty much what we could do right now. The proportion of crimes investigated and solved is decreasing. Police statistics from July this year show that the number of uninvestigated criminal investigations has increased by 1.3 per cent in the whole country compared with last year. In many regions, the figures are even worse, for example in the North region, where the number has risen by as much as 13%. Sweden needs more police officers and more effective results reporting to reverse developments. In addition, the police are required to make greater use of new technologies. For example, increased use of body-borne cameras is needed, which not only protects police officers from violence but also provides evidence for better evidence. In addition, greater opportunities are needed to use camera surveillance in crime-loaded areas. This would also increase the possibility of prosecuting a criminal offence. Mr President, I would like to In a functioning rule of law, trust in the judiciary must be strong. If people feel that the crimes they report are not investigated, that the police are not present or that no one is prosecuted, although it seems relatively easy to prove who has committed the crime, this confidence risks decreasing. This, in turn, risks leading to people not reporting crimes. In order to maintain confidence in the judicial system, victims must be able to feel confident that their criminal report is taken seriously. When criminal reports are closed within a few days, despite the fact that it seems perfectly possible for the victim to solve the crime, the perception may be spread that there is no point in making a report. In the long run, there is also a risk that criminals feel so confident about going free that they commit crimes without considering the consequences. The basic position of the judiciary must be that crimes should be investigated and perpetrators prosecuted. To enable more crimes to be investigated, the whole chain of justice needs to be strengthened and held together. When more resources are added to the police to deal with more crimes more quickly, the demands on the remaining legal chain will increase. Both the Prosecutor's Office and the National Forensic Centre have already signalled that they are in need of reinforcement, and there are also signs that witness protection is underfunded. The Center Party therefore proposes resources to strengthen those very parts of the legal chain. This will mean that more serious criminals can be convicted and more everyday crimes can be cleared up. The development of the proportion of offences cleared up is very worrying. The proportion of cases reported by the police to prosecutors has fallen, and this also applies to the proportion of crimes solved by persons. The Prosecution Authority is the authority that leads preliminary investigations, decides on charges and represents the public in court. With more solved crimes, the need for prosecutors increases. For this reason, the Center Party proposes that the Prosecutor's Office be added to 58 million in 2018 to finance more prosecutors. In total, this investment amounts to SEK 193 million during the period 2018 – 2020. We also need to invest in forensics. The National Forensic Centre, NFC, is an important link for the entire legal chain to function. In our budget, the NFC provides the conditions to work effectively, which in many cases is necessary in order to conduct criminal investigations that hold a charge. That is why this is very important. The Center Party proposes an additional SEK 300 million to the National Forensic Centre for the next three years in order to increase their resources and have more employees. We also need to strengthen witness protection. Too few people dare to witness, especially in the areas we call alienation areas. We need to strengthen witness protection so that the police can assist and protect those who need protection. We contribute SEK 50 million annually to strengthen witness protection so that the security of those in need of protection can increase. The Center Party wants a stronger victim perspective in the judicial system. Persons who have been victims of crime must have the right and the opportunity to obtain information from the judiciary on the case in question and on the resources available to support the victim. There must be professional staff to provide the necessary support. We want people who have been victims of crime to be able to easily find out where they can turn to proceed with a police report and that the opportunity for victims' help is increased. Those who have been subjected to serious crimes as well as the survivors of persons murdered should be offered support when the perpetrator is granted leave or released. The municipalities' work with victims of crime works differently in different places. For residents, it can mean that it is difficult to know where to turn when you have been subjected to a crime. The lack of a holistic approach also puts certain groups of victims at risk of falling between the chairs. Many victims testify to the difficulty of obtaining damages, which makes the violation of the crime even greater. It must be easier for victims to obtain compensation. In the case of victims who have been sentenced to compensation for crimes committed against them, and where the offender has been sentenced to prison, the State should take greater responsibility for ensuring that the individual victim does not have to claim the compensation himself. A lot of people have been into the important thing about school. It all starts at school. Of the 9th grade students surveyed, 13 per cent do not feel safe in school. Even more are afraid of other students. It's not supposed to be like that. Crimes committed at school are rarely reported, and victims are all too rarely recognised as victims of crime. The Center Party wants to tighten up the possibility of moving students who seriously interfere with their studies or the safety of other students immediately. The school should not be a free zone for crime. A school is obliged to report to the social services if they suspect that there is a danger to a child's health and development, but the reports rarely concern events between students. The Center Party therefore, like the UK and Finland, wants schools to be obliged to report to the police if they have reason to suspect that a child has been subjected to sex offences or crimes against life and health in or around the school environment and that staff should be able to contact parents of young people even over the age of 18 as long as they are enrolled in school. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support all the movements and reservations of the Center Party as well as those of the Alliance. However, for the winning period, I only apply for reservation 17 under item 19 and reservation 20 under item 23.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-146	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes it is worth recalling why we are discussing this budget – the one on the table that will result in reduced tax rates for pensioners, free glasses for children and higher climate ambitions. That is because the government, together with the Left Party, has agreed that we should stop profits in welfare. It hasn't been an easy trip. I'll admit it. The government and we have been nagging and arguing, agreeing and disagreeing at all. But we are starting to get to grips with this, and it is a great victory for the whole of society and also for the judiciary. Profits in welfare affect the judiciary, probably more than we think. We see that profits in welfare are fattening a new form of financial crime, where the company is used as a crowbar and where public procurement is shamed and then does not carry out the task. It is companies that use start-up grants and LOU procurements, don't pay taxes and fees and trade things on credit until the company finally goes bankrupt. All these aspects of these companies' activities have been paid out of common tax revenues and facilitated by companies being able to make profits in their welfare. We must put an end to this. Many parties are now crying out for tougher action against criminals and more severe penalties, but few of these parties want to admit that it was the alliance government that created this brand new category of crimes. It was during the Center Party, during Annie Lööf's time as Minister for Enterprise, that a number of administrative reliefs were made for companies to have a simpler everyday life. It was said that complicated bureaucracy for entrepreneurs would disappear. The result was that some entrepreneurs and criminals took advantage of the opportunity and started using their companies as a crime tool. The Alliance abolished the requirement for audit in small companies and made it easier to obtain an F tax note. They also made it possible to postpone bookkeeping and halve the requirement for share capital. According to the Swedish Environmental Crimes Agency, these simplifications have acted as glides during the skis for criminals. In short, this bourgeois entrepreneurial policy made it easier to start a business. However, the changes made completely lacked the control and enforcement mechanisms needed to prevent the system from being misused. In the bourgeois eagerness of the alliance government to remove some papers for small businessmen, a whole new category of crime was created. Maybe it's the perfect crime. No complicated money laundering is needed and no risky handling of drugs or weapons. It provides a secure income that is constantly ticking in from a source that will never go away, namely public money, our tax resources. In addition, it creates unhealthy competition for the vast majority of entrepreneurs who struggle daily to make their business grow and contribute to Sweden's growth. Moreover, financial crime is likely to be a significantly greater problem than crime statistics show. The darker number is estimated to be large because the reported crimes are mainly the result of the Tax Agency's controls and bankruptcy administrators' investigations. This is a large-scale scam involving grant money with victims who are both faceless and anonymous. It's at once nobody and everyone. None of us are directly robbed; yet we are all affected. The alliance therefore lacks total credibility when they swing the baton and demand order. At the same time, the government and the Left Party are making the biggest effort on the police in 20 years. There's a difference between right and left. Let us now put a serious stop to crime by, among other things, stopping profits from welfare! I therefore call for the present draft budget to be approved and for the Left Party's reservation 8. Mr President, I would like to There is much in the budget work that is interesting. It is interesting that the Alliance cannot write a common budget and have the same vision for the judiciary. It is interesting that the Alliance makes record number of announcements in the Justice Committee – announcements that often involve breaking open doors on issues that the government is already working on. But the most interesting thing is the Moderates. The Moderates began by striking a wedge between the working part of the population and the part made up of sick or unemployed people. This started ten years ago. It was called the work line. The level of taxation was lowered, and those who most needed the support of society did not get it. Now there is a new wedge to be wrapped – the one between people born in Sweden and those who were not born in Sweden. More and more, it is pointed out that the others are responsible for crime and that these others are to be registered. The others are immigrants and asylum seekers. At the same time, women rage over sexual harassment that we are subjected to by our bosses, by bank managers and by cultural profiles – but very much by ordinary men. Women testify that it is men from all parts of Sweden, in all professions and with all education and income that sexually harass women. Metoo is the movement that no one can resist. It is a vulnerability which, unfortunately, cannot be dealt with by either more policemen or more severe penalties, but only by men, all men, changing their minds. The solution to this is for the Moderates to register the ethnicity of these men. This is a proposal that the Swedish Democrats were the first to come up with. First, the Swedish Democrats stood on the edge of the plan and shouted out their opinions. But now the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats dance a tango through the Justice Committee's room, and the other parties in the Alliance stand by and pat the pace. None of the other bourgeois parties react. No one is protesting about the current movement of positions that has been taking place for a long time, particularly in matters of crime and punishment. If I am wrong and if it is the case that the Liberals, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party have an active anti-racist work in the Alliance, if you counteract any movement of positions, if you refuse to support a policy that points out ethnicity and if you take responsibility for a community of solidarity every day, then show it more clearly! Because right now it just looks like you have failed miserably and that it is the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats who are the Alliance. If it is the case that you are working against racism, I am the first to admit that I am wrong in this pulpit. But you have to disprove me. Please do it! Mr President, I would like to Sexism and xenophobia go hand in hand. That is why the Swedish Democrats are totally dark and do not participate in the Metoo. They pretend that they do not belong to the establishment or in some magical way do not belong to the same structure as the rest of society. It is when established parties follow in this change of position that it is becoming really dangerous. It is when parties become totally deaf to what is happening in society and focus only on the next poll that it is really dangerous. It is dangerous when it is more important to flirt with xenophobia than to listen to the women in the Metoo. If you do not want sex crimes to be blamed on immigration according to the explanation model created by the Swedish Democrats, the police must prioritise sexual crimes higher. That is why women's stories must be taken seriously instead of penalties being increased. That's why women who get a slap on their butt every day by their boss, girls who get tangled up in the school corridor and actors are told that the male genius has always done so must be listened to instead of statistics depending on the ethnicity of the man who carries out the crime. The largest proportion of those who commit these crimes have one thing in common: they are men. For us women, it doesn't matter what color the man's skin is. We can't see if you're a rapist or not. All we can see is that you're a man. It is in the Committee on Justice that the wedge between people is most noticeable. It is there that the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats largely enforce a common policy. That is why we red-greens are instead putting forward a budget that focuses on crime prevention, change in income inequality and with a focus on men's violence against women.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-165	Mr President, I would like to There were words and no songs from Linda Snecker. Yes, it's true that we developed a work line. I think that is basically a good thing. I'm proud that a nurse now has more money in his wallet. I think it is reasonable and right, rather than giving priority to increased subsidies. But there we can think differently. I agree with Linda Snecker that the whole discussion about metoo is a roar. I think that was a very good thing to say, and I think that is something that everyone needs to reflect on, including the Left Party, if I should take note of what is happening in your party. But in addition to the broad work to change men, it is also a question of us as legislators having a responsibility. Then I think it might be interesting to ask Linda Snecker how it is that the Left Party is opposed, for example, to raising the penalties for all rape crimes. You, Linda Snecker, yourself boast that you have been involved in raising the penalties for many crimes in this area, but precisely in the case of rape crimes, the Left Party does not seem to think it is justified anymore. If you'd change your mind there, we Moderates would welcome it. I think it is high time we showed the legislator how we view sexual crimes. Finally, a broad survey that we Moderates have proposed is about something other than what Linda Snecker describes. It is about the kind of mapping that the Crime Prevention Council has done in the past being able to do again, without the kind of political constraints that come up in the debate. I think it is better to pursue a legal policy based on facts and knowledge rather than personal perceptions and guesses.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-170	Mr President, I would like to Now the punishments are not the answer to everything. It would be extremely nice for us politicians if we were to raise the penalties to reduce crime. Unfortunately, however, we see that increased penalties do not affect crime. However, there is one exception. The Left Party does not like increased penalties, but in the case of sexual offences we can imagine that, for a reason, namely that the police should prioritise these crimes higher. We now see that sexual crimes have not been prioritised. Tomas Tobé, you spoke in your speech that there has been an explosion of sexual crimes in the last two years. That's not true. It is we women who have begun to report what we have been constantly exposed to. For the millennia of patriarchal society, we have been the victims of men's violence against women. We've made less money. We have had less education and less opportunities. We die sooner than men do. This is now beginning to change. I think you and I are in complete agreement that this is a good thing. Patriarchal society must fundamentally change, and it begins above all with all men – that men take their joint responsibility for not sexually harassing or exploiting women or beating a girl on the butt. Sometimes it's not harder than that. But it is interesting that the Moderates do not quite acknowledge this. We know that 97% of all sexual crimes reported in 2016 were committed by men – it was men who were the perpetrators. What else do you need to know to reduce sexual crimes? Do we need to know what ethnicity these men had in order to come up with an action plan? Why do your actions differ depending on whether the perpetrators are from Sweden or not?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-175	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by welcoming the fact that the Left Party will now support the Moderates' proposal to raise the penalties for all rape crimes. It is also interesting that Linda Snecker apparently knows exactly what has happened. The Crime Prevention Council itself has presented an interim report showing a doubling of exposure to sexual offences. Some may well be that we have had a higher propensity to nod, but when Brå is asked why we have had such a dramatic increase in just two years, Brå answers: We don't know– we can't explain it. More research would be needed on this. I believe that this is our duty to the victims, the victims of a sexual crime. It is clear that it is better to do a broad survey, where we can look at the circumstances in which the crimes occur – do they occur more indoors or more in public environments? Of course, such things as gender and age are interesting. Yes, foreign background is also relevant. It may even be that some of the young asylum seekers who have applied to Sweden come with completely different experiences and values. With preventive measures, we may be able to help ensure that they do not fall into the wrong place in our society. The time when Sweden is shoveling away these kind of difficult questions must be over. My question to the Left Party and Linda Snecker is therefore: Why is it so important for the Left Party to stop us getting more knowledge and facts, so that we can build politics on this rather than on Linda Snecker's personal views?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-179	Mr President, I would like to Tomas Tobé, your answer clearly shows where the Moderates stand today. It is a question of not taking systematic social responsibility for what has happened. We feminists have long said that it is men who have a problem. There is a masculine destructive norm in society that overrules men and subordinates women. This isn't rocket science. It was in the feminist movement of the 1970s that this analysis started. The Moderates don't want to listen to women's experience. The Moderates do not want to do anything about this until they figure out what might be the problem, and that is the increase in asylum immigration. That's where you solved the problem! You say: let us point to a few others. Let's register them. Let's analyse them, even though we know that 97% of all sexual crimes reported in 2016 were committed by men. It doesn't matter where the men come from, where they live or what education and income they have, because men expose women to violence and sex crimes. They do it like bosses and colleagues. It happens in our parties. It happens in Parliament's chambers. It's happening everywhere. If we are to think about the victims of crime, it is time to start listening to all of us women roaring from within over the vulnerability we face daily. We won't be believed. We report, and no one listens. The cases are closed. This must change. I think we are now in that change. Then the Moderates must come along and realize that there are great changes that must happen.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-184	Mr President, I would like to I support all our reservations, but in this House I choose to endorse only reservations 16, 17 and 20. Liberals believe that it is possible to reverse developments in the situation in the judiciary, particularly in the Swedish police. Urgent measures are needed to restore the judiciary and strengthen our capacity for increasingly ruthless crime, but also to tackle perhaps the most worrying developments, namely the perceived insecurity of Swedish society. The police's conditions must be improved if we are to regain control of the criminals. Statskontoret recently provided an evaluation showing that the police's investigative activities are not working satisfactorily either. Police are investigating fewer and fewer violent crimes. The agency is in a situation where it is even forced to prioritise between very serious crimes. So it is under this government, which calls itself feminist, that reported rape and sexual crimes are not carried out by an understaffed and underfunded police department. It is not acceptable or sustainable that citizens should not be able to get in touch with the police quickly and that they not only experience, but also every day in the media hear that the police cannot act if, for example, you report a house crime. It reinforces the sense of insecurity and insecurity when people feel that the rule of law society is not even able to carry out its fundamental mission. We have been calling on the government for a few years in this pulpit. It is about the need for measures to reverse the situation. The Liberals have been faced for three years in this House with political tone deafness from the Social Democrats. Neither the government nor its chief police officer has wanted to acknowledge the under-financing and under-staffing of the Swedish police. It is now and here we see the consequence of government policy. I have listened a great deal to what has been said in the debate. Why do we need more cops? Not many have commented on it. Yes, we need that because the criminals are taking over our communities and our neighbourhoods. Why do we need more cops? Yes, we need that because people no longer dare to go out in the evening – this is especially true of women. Why do we need a pay bet? Well, we need that because we lose between 800 and 1,000 police officers every year-- in half of the cases it's not because of retirements. Why do we need to lure back and keep cops? Yes, we need that because the number of police officers who quit, Mr President, is greater than the number who are being trained and recruited. That is what we have been pointing out over the last two years. The government says: No, but it is common to choose a different career, and it is no wonder that you want to change jobs. But you don't realize the seriousness – the drama – of the number. That is why it is important to make a targeted wage effort. That is why it is important to stop the defection and not least to attract back police officers who have stopped. Police training has also been discussed. There is a lot of focus on how many people will be educated in the future. But we have 400 empty seats this year. We need to find out how 400 places in police training are empty. In 2016, Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson was asked about the Swedish Police Authority's reduced demands in talent tests – it was in response to the desire to get more in to fill the empty spaces. The government then said that there was no reason to question the decision of the Political Authority. Now it's been another year. On behalf of the government, a memorandum was submitted to the government in June. It proposes a further reduction in the requirements for admission to police training. This time it is about physical requirements. My question to the government is, which police officers do you want in the future? Do you really believe that further reduced requirements raise the status of the profession and increase the quality of the Swedish police? Are we supposed to have bureaucrats, or are it skilled men and women who can work with murder investigations and other investigations and who can work crime prevention and in external service in an increasingly tough environment? Will the government, just like last year, approve of this proposal by the Police Authority? You can't just refer to the police department. It is you who have ordered the memo from the Police Department, in response to the fact that there are far too many empty places in police training. In this budget, the Liberals make the biggest political effort on both the judiciary and the police by all political parties in the Swedish parliament – it is independent of whether it applies to 2018, 2019 or 2020. The most important message for us liberals is to stop the police drop-out and lure back the police officers who have left the authority. It is not true, as the Social Democrats rhetorically claim, that the greatest effort is being made on the police in modern times – or it was in the 21st century. We have asked the Parliamentary Investigation Service to look at this. That's not true. You can look at the bnp and the economy in Sweden. The grant for Swedish police is falling. There is another important figure that reveals the Social Democratic and Environmental Party House of Cards, Mr President. Exactly a year ago, we made this year's police budget. Let me read a sentence: The government proposes an increase of SEK 100 million in 2017. That's 100 million kroner. You didn't have a crown for any more cops. You didn't have an extra penny for higher police salaries. You didn't have an extra penny for the local crime prevention work. You can read that sentence. You don't have to read the whole of this year's budget. Then, because of an active opposition, you have had to back down and increase the funding, but it does not matter. We have fewer police officers in Sweden. We have fewer police officers on the outside. We have fewer cops per capita. We have become half a million more compared to what it has looked like in the past. Nevertheless, we have fewer police officers in Sweden. Then there's the police dropout. Today, it is noted that about 800 people have quit – half have, as I have said, quit because of retirement. You are not taking a single measure to lure back the hundreds of police officers who have quit. Why is this so important? Yes, it is important for this reason: When I call the police if I have been the victim of a house crime or any other crime, I must be able to feel confident that someone answers and preferably someone also comes and investigates my matters. We cannot have police chiefs who are daily on radio and television saying: We cannot investigate sexual crimes or reported rapes. We cannot have police area managers, i.e. the old county police officers, who say: We cannot have police officers out in the municipalities, but they must be localised and centralised to the residence cities or places where we currently have many shootings. We can't even deal with serious crimes in places like Västerås, for example. Police resources must be taken in from the rest of Västmanland. But this is not unique to Västmanland, Mr President. This is becoming a national trend, and it is very serious. To conclude, I would like to say something about the crime prevention work that the Social Democrats are passionate about. That is another effect of your policy. All the police chiefs I have visited in the last six months say: We do not have time for the crime prevention work, the core of the reorganisation. We don't have time to go out and meet the kids. We don't have time to go out to the schools. We don't have time to be out patrolling the neighborhoods. This does not have to be in the affected areas. It applies throughout the country. This, Mr President, is the result of an active policy from S, V and MP, where the police have been at the bottom of the priority list.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-203	Mr President, I would like to There is probably no other party that so aggressively, or I might say passionately, pushes the issue of the police. Roger Haddad talks a lot about police officers and vulnerable areas. In the description of the Sweden in which we are currently living, the liberal freedom of the Liberals seems to be blown away. The ambitions of people's freedom and the right to live their lives are not really in focus. What Roger Haddad does not mention at all is what cooperation in the Committee on Justice looks like. The Alliance makes record number of announcements. You're very proud of that in the Alliance. You beat your chest: We have an incredible impact on Parliament and pressure on the government. You're very pleased about that. But you do not say how these announcements come about – that it is active cooperation between the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats and that it is above all the Moderates who have moved their positions closer to the Swedish Democrats. I know what it's like to be in a smaller party and to try to cooperate with other, larger parties. It's not easy. You can't get through everything you want. But what have the Liberals done to prevent the Alliance from moving closer to the xenophobic position? What is the anti-racist approach of the Liberals in the Committee on Justice? What do you do to influence the Moderates not to approach the Swedish Democrats? We antiracists have an enormous responsibility. I want to know what the Liberals are doing.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-207	Mr President, I would like to Liberals are passionate about the police issue. It's about our freedom. That's what I said in my main speech. We need to make investments if it's that people don't dare go shopping after four o'clock when it's dark, don't dare go out and take out money or don't dare send their kids to the dance club because of insecurity. This is particularly true in the areas that the police point out, where crime is so obvious that society has not been able to resist. As we've been in the past, it takes school ventures and field assistants. We need to invest in security. We also have 2 000 municipal security officers in the budget. We invest half a billion in strengthening the municipal crime prevention work. But again: this is due to the police crisis and the situation within the Police Authority. That's why we're anxious to stop weapons and keep police officers. As far as the situation in the Committee on Justice is concerned, I have not, in any case, been involved in changing motions or making proposals in the belief that it should suit a particular party. We have been pursuing several of those proposals for many years. We can see this in this year's report, with references to the announcements of the last three or four years. Some of them are repetitions because we do not think you and the government are doing enough. These include attacks on blue-light personnel and the investigation of more stringent penalties for weapons offences. There are several proposals, not least concerning honour-related violence. You say no to some of our proposals, but there are announcements. If the Swedish Democrats in this case join alliance movements on the issues that we have been pursuing for many years, I have no problem with that. But that is something that they have decided for themselves. That is not something I have actively asked them to do.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-209	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad doesn't really answer my questions. What is the anti-racist strategy of the Liberals, Roger Haddad? How do you work as a party to combat xenophobia? How do you apply that strategy in the Justice Committee? What you're doing now is twitching your shoulders and saying that your policy seemed to be very close to SD's and that they happened to support it. But that's not really what's happening. What is happening is a change of position in the whole political field, where established parties are approaching the xenophobic context because it suits them well to get to power. It is dangerous when established parties are more interested in power than in the content of politics. Then we begin to approach a world order that is far from the liberal world outlook that you really are passionate about. I want to know, Roger Haddad: How do the Liberals work anti-racistly in the Committee on Justice? I don't want you to just shrug your shoulders and say: "Oh, then, the Swedish Democrats supported our policy – we can't do anything about that.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-211	Mr President, I would like to One answer to Linda Snecker's question may be that last year the party leader of the Swedish Democrats Jimmie Åkesson gave a speech in which he chose to jump on two bourgeois politicians, Annie Lööf and Roger Haddad. That may at least indicate that we are the party that has most clearly dissociated itself from the xenophobic parts of that party. We have said that under no circumstances should we give them indirect or direct influence over Swedish politics. If, at our country meeting, we say we want to tighten the penalties for certain sexual offences, abolish the penalty for young offenders or change the conditional release, which we have now decided on, it is designed within the Liberals without regard to other parties.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-213	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad is quite loud in terms of the number of police officers and that we need more. At least during your time in government, I perceived that education was your absolute core issue. I know that Roger Haddad must also be aware that it takes a number of years to get trained police officers. You held on to the number of 20,000, which meant that in order to make ends meet, it might have to not hire as many as civilian workers. In the meantime, what did the Liberals do in government in view of the future prospects and outlook that they actually needed more police officers in the future? What did you do to create more training places? Did you press the Police Authority, the Minister of Justice and your own Minister of Education to create more training places so that in the future we would have more trained police officers?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-215	Mr President, I would like to When we took office in 2006, the police budget was about 15 billion. When we left government power, it was about 20 - 21 billion. There was a massive expansion of police operations. The years 2009 – 2010 during our first term of office was also a strong rate of expansion in police training. Whether you measure for 2010 or 2014, we had more police per capita than you have now, Helene Petersson. Under your government and your party's head of the Justice Department, there have been fewer police officers in external service. There are fewer police officers, and the police have come further away from the citizens. You stood up here in the speaker's room and said we agreed on everything. We're not. A year ago when we were standing here having the corresponding debate, we wanted to spend almost 900 million on the police. You wanted to add 100 million, but it was mostly about the dismantling of the old National Police Board and little effort against illegal cabotage operations. You have zero credibility in this matter, Helene Petersson.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-217	Mr President, I would like to Now it sounds like the Liberals weren't in on the deal to reorganize the police. I know that all parties agreed that this would happen. We have always seen the need for more training places. We have also contributed resources. A new situation is that we have a labour market with extremely low unemployment. I wonder if Roger Haddad is aware of that. This means that those who work in the Police Authority are very attractive workers. We have a very big job to do with keeping them, just as Roger Haddad has also said. Then it is not only about wages but also about the working environment and different situations at work. It is also a matter of having a knowledgeable police force. That is why I wonder why you are so strongly opposed to higher education. If we are to get those who commit crimes to also be convicted of crimes, it is important that it works on the investigation side, so that prosecutors and courts have the opportunity to run the whole line. I would like to hear an explanation of why you are so strongly opposed to higher education.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-221	Mr President, I would like to Helene Petersson in Stockaryd is changing and does not answer the question that there are fewer police officers during the current government, but that is what the debate is about. There's a bigger drop-out during your government, Helene Petersson. There are 1 000 police officers fewer than when we were in government, and that has nothing to do with police training. Thousands of people are searching. That's between 6,000 and 10,000 applicants. The number of seats has been 800, and now it will be increased. But there are 400 empty seats. This has nothing to do with university qualifications. You are now going to break one of Sweden's most attractive educations. First, you dropped the talent test last year. Now you are about to lower the physical requirements for being admitted to police training. You removed the requirement for a B driver's licence when you applied. You have taken a number of such measures, which in itself does not surprise me. I've been working on education issues for 15 years. It has always been social democratic education policy to reduce the demands and to maximise the number of seats in the hope of solving this problem. But that doesn't solve the problem. It will only have the opposite effect.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-223	Mr President, I would like to So far in the debate we have heard an alliance which puts forward many proposals, which are ready to take over, which have also brought the government before them during their term of office with the help of over 100 announcements. The report we are debating contains another eleven. However, there are some proposals that we cannot get through and we want to press for these proposals in this House today. That is why I am in favour of reservation 17 and reservation 20, but we Christian Democrats naturally support all our reservations. It is good that the government listens to good proposals and does what the Riksdag decides, but it would be better to have an alliance government that can take over and deal with the major problems that exist. I share the picture that has come up earlier in the debate in this House, namely that we should not black out, nor should we be fair-painting – but we must see the reality as it is. Person robbery, sexual offences, assault, fraud, harassment and threats are increasing, according to the Council's Security Survey. We see violent attacks on police officers and police stations across the country. Last week there was an assassination attempt on police officers in Uppsala when, according to TT's sources, a hand grenade was obviously thrown at the police. Seven out of ten police officers believe that exposure has only increased in the last two years. A few weeks ago, a family was robbed in their own home by several gunmen. According to media reports, a mother and a child were tied up, and robbers were able to steal two cars. The news flew by in the flow as a note, but I think only a few years ago it had become big headlines. We see gang crime and organised crime spreading, and we must never accept this. It's urgent. If we are to reverse developments in alienation areas, and if we are to reverse the trend of insecurity spreading in cities, we urgently need more police officers on the ground. We Christian Democrats have proposed 10 000 more police officers, and we have also proposed that municipalities be given opportunities to co-finance police services. They will receive a slightly shorter training with more practical training and will be linked to the local police areas. The municipalities spend 1.6 billion SEK on guarding services. In Västra Götaland and Örebro County, costs have increased by nearly 50 per cent since 2014. These are dramatic figures, and they are based on the fact that the government has not invested enough in the police at the right time. Three years ago, according to Svenska Dagbladet, the Minister for Home Affairs said that 19 000 or 20 000 police officers do not matter. It is clear that the government's casual attitude then matters today. An increase in the number of police officers was not a priority. Instead, we were criticized for wanting more policemen to play numbers bingo. The number of police officers is falling below this government. Instead, the municipalities now have to go in and cover up by employing security guards and security guards, who are able to replace police officers in many ways. It is good that the municipalities are acting, but the guards are not supposed to do police work. It is about getting policemen into streets and squares so that they are present in their local areas in the long term. In my own municipality of Mullsjö, district police officers have been forced to move, despite the fact that it is unsafe and school staff say they need police officers they can cooperate with – but there is a shortage of resources. We know that district policemen in several places are being moved from smaller municipalities to larger ones. We know that when the police have made a successful effort, for example recently in Bishopsgården, they will soon have to leave the area because there is more fire elsewhere. It creates a vacuum where new crime can occur. That must not be the case, Mr President. There is a need for more police officers, but it is not enough to solve the problems of the Swedish police. The big challenge is to keep those who are currently working as police officers in the profession. Many police officers feel great frustration and inadequacy in an increasingly tough working environment. We heard Mrs Pertoft's speech earlier in the debate. He said it's the media that's blacking out the pressure in the police. I haven't been on so many police passes that I can tell you how it looks every week, but the times I've been with– and I go on a regular trip – I've seen on several occasions how cops get to leave the lunch box in the microwave and stand out on an alarm. They don't have time to eat. I once sat in a hamburger restaurant, and I started eating my fries– I usually take them first – but the cops told me to take the burger first because you don't know if you have time to eat it. That is correct; when I had taken a couple of bites, we had to get out of there. It is not the media that tell me about the pressure in the police, but it is the police themselves. I see it in their own everyday life when I'm on a pass. It is an incredible working pressure, it is a tough working environment and it is an unsustainable working situation. That is why the work situation for police officers needs to be improved and the attractiveness of the profession increased so that more police officers do not choose to quit. There are no shortcuts here. The Christian Democrats are therefore proposing a special wage bet. The funds set aside in our budget would be sufficient for a salary increase of SEK 4 000 to SEK 5 000 per month for police officers in external service. There would also be a possibility of increased ob-reimbursement. The structural problems within the Police Authority need to be addressed. Here the Christian Democrats have previously proposed that the chief of police should be replaced by a chief with police experience. At the same time, there is a need for a broad focus on leadership within the Police Authority. That is why we propose the creation of a new police agency, a police research institute. Close police research is crucial for measuring the impact of various police tactics and approaches and developing working methods. Here are a number of suggestions. We want the police to have access to more alternative weapons, so that sharp loaded gun is not the closest step from pepper spray. We want the police to be allowed to perform camera surveillance without seeking permission. Instead, there should be a notification requirement so that it is quickly possible to get cameras out. Body-borne cameras have been mentioned in the debate. This is something that we also see as an important tool in the work of the police. But there are more things to do. That is why close police research needs to be strengthened. Mr President, I would like to Crime must be met with both short-term and long-term measures. Rapid action is needed, for example, through local police activities, which I have talked about. There is a need for cooperation between police, school and social services. In the case of young people, cooperation with civil society and parents needs to be strengthened. Long-term work is about prevention. They are of the utmost importance and something we Christian Democrats repeatedly press. That is why the Christian Democrats are putting forward offensive proposals to invest in schools in exclusion areas. We spend 11⁄2 billion a year in our budget on another spending area to reverse the development of schools in exclusion areas. It's money for more teachers and more special teachers. We also want to make it possible to close down bad schools, but before that we want national teams of experts who can go out and temporarily take over control to help and relieve an already heavily burdened staff to reverse developments. We also want police cooperation with schools to be improved and there to be district police locally linked to the particular school they will work closely with and also at the school in cooperation with school staff and social services. We must also support adults so that they are present and involved in the lives of young people. Here comes the Christian Democrats' family policy. A family policy that supports parents, supports those responsible for raising children, is an important part of crime prevention. We have debated a lot in this House. It is an incredibly important effort to reverse the trend. There must be a broader perspective with a holistic approach. In that case, investments in schools, social services, civil society and parents are key parts of the work.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-245	Mr President, I would like to Andreas Carlson referred to the fact that I raised the risk of blacking out the police in the media and in politics. It was in a context where I talked about how things have gone on the teacher question. It is not entirely unknown that we here in Sweden have long been drawn with problems to recruit people to the teacher education. It's been so long. On my part, it was completely serious. It was not so much about party politics, but I am seriously concerned about a situation where we do not get enough applicants for police training. That is why I react to Andreas Carlson ralliing a little bit and think that these are difficult working conditions. I agree with Andreas Carlson that these are difficult working conditions. I agree we need more cops. I don't think there's a party in this room that doesn't want that. We can divide how many billions we are going to spend on this, but it is important that it actually goes to the Swedish people that we are concerned about the situation and that we want to jointly increase the number of police officers. But it is also important that we see that there is a risk of black painting that can stop people from applying for police training and that we there must be nuanced and not overly lulling. I feel that Andreas Carlson, in his speech here, rallied at my concern about this. I think it would be good if we could share these concerns.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-249	Madam President, I would like I thank Mats Pertoft for his clarification. Of course I'm worried, but I'm more concerned about the reality that policemen – many times in external service – describe. I believe that if we, as politicians, do not take seriously the concerns they feel about having time for their work, we risk making a picture of reality in their eyes. This is the balance that we have discussed earlier in this debate – what is black painting, and what is fair painting? Of course, we should not add to this and paint the reality that is already worrying in even darker colors. I share Mats Pertoft's concern that a political debate could lead to this. But if we do not take this situation seriously, if we do not take the situation that so many police officers stop seriously, there is a risk that they will have an even worse working situation – and I think it is rather the debate in which many police officers working in external service are involved that risks scaring people away from the profession than that we as politicians do not take their concerns seriously. That is why we need to raise wages, especially for police officers in external service. We must improve working conditions, and we must quickly ensure that they have more colleagues in order to reverse developments – especially those relating to how they are doing in their work situation, not how that work situation is described. We must go to the root of the problem and strengthen so that wages are raised, working conditions are improved and they have more colleagues. That is my entry into that debate.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-252	Madam President, I would like We can agree that working conditions must be improved. That is why the government has placed a mandate to review this. Andreas Carlson would like to direct money into higher wages and promise it now. I give up and I'd rather let the parties handle it, but I want to make sure the police authorities have the resources. The important thing, what I reacted to, was the insinuation that I do not take the police's work situation as it is now seriously. I know what it looks like. I have also been to the police and heard these comments and descriptions. I respect those who today serve as police officers very highly. They often work under difficult conditions. We'll have the greatest respect for that. But we will also make sure to highlight the importance of the police. We will give the police respect, highlight the work and hope that as many people as possible will apply for that education. I don't think the police will benefit from us accusing each other of not being serious about what we're saying. If they felt that we in politics in Sweden jointly want us to have several police officers, respect the police profession and want to improve their working conditions, albeit in different ways, it would be something that would benefit development – in one place rather than trying to overwhelm each other at different points and knock each other down with more or less dug-up or sought-out contradictions. I have no intention of darkening working conditions. On the other hand, I intend to try to encourage as many people as possible to apply for education.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-257	Madam President, I would like I respect you, Mats Pertoft. What I meant by part of that quote was that if you describe it as the media blacking out the description, I think you miss that many police officers in that situation would feel that here are some who make the description. That is the balance that we are going to return to. When it comes to showing respect for the policemen who are working, who are fighting hard and in this way actually defending our security with their enormous efforts, we think it is important to show them respect also by having a targeted wage effort. When I meet police officers and the Police Association and ask what is the most important effort to improve working conditions, no one does not put higher salaries at the top. That is why it is so important for the Christian Democrats to have a targeted wage investment. Why? After all, it is the social partners who are going to solve this. Yes, but who are the social partners? The state is a party. We're a party. We should not go into detail and say exactly how to improve the non-reimbursement, but we have a responsibility to ensure that there are targeted resources to enable a strong investment in increased wages when it is the state that is one of the parties. That is why the Christian Democrats are pushing us to have a targeted wage effort that meets, above all, police officers in external service. We have been talking about an increase in the order of SEK 4 000 - 5 000 per month.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-260	Madam President, I would like First of all, thank you to the committee for the good treatment of the Government's proposals in this part. It is perhaps not surprising, given that we are now taking forward, as many have pointed out, historic efforts on the judiciary in general and especially on the police. I have now been in Parliament for almost 20 years. Never before has any government, regardless of party colour, proposed major investments in the police from one year to another – SEK 2 billion more from 2017 to 2018. In addition, in the coming years we will continue to step up the funding further. A total of SEK 7.1 billion for 2018 – 2020. We can do this, Madam President, because over these three years we have turned the huge deficit inherited by the old government into a surplus in public finances. Now that we have put the economy in order, law enforcement is one of the top priority areas. We are not spending our money on major tax cuts. Instead, we place them on public activities such as the judiciary. We now have that money to distribute. And these resources are needed. These are two major themes which currently dominate the debate on criminal policy. One is organized crime. The second is men's violence against women, where sexual crimes are a part of it. I will say a few words on both of these themes. First of all, there is organised crime. Today, there is no more important criminal policy task than breaking organised crime. It has grown strong for over 20 years. We have seen growth in almost all the crimes that can be linked to organised crime – drug crime, blackmail, assault, illegal threats, abuse of justice, violence and threats to officials, shootings on the street. This exists throughout Sweden, but the development is particularly serious in the affected areas. There are areas where criminals believe that they are in charge and where they attack the police, ambulance and fire department when they come to help. This is totally unacceptable, and I am sick of it. Swedish law applies everywhere, and I will never accept that it runs around individuals in these areas who think they own those neighborhoods. If this is allowed to continue, it will be a threat to the system. Then people will increasingly hesitate to report crimes, testify to what they have seen and participate in the judicial process. We will soon be no longer a rule of law, but then we will have put forward a system in which the strong can take advantage of themselves at the expense of the weak. My view, Madam President, is that the Swedish police and the Swedish judiciary should have the staffing, the equipment, the tools and the laws needed to once and for all uproot organised crime with its roots. We must work hard against these criminal gangs. The fight against organised crime must be uncompromising, because if we do not put an end to this in time, it will soon get out of our hands. That is why we are rolling out an action programme that has contained a great deal of punitive measures during the period. We have tightened the penalties for serious violent crimes: grossly illegal threats, aggravated assault, gross blackmail, aggravated robbery and the most serious drug offences. We have made it easier to go on the money and seize assets that criminals have acquitted themselves by crime. We've made it possible to bring down a gang leader for the crimes his gang members have committed. In addition, next year will be increased penalties for serious weapons offences, on which Parliament has just dealt with legislation, and then we will also have a presumption of detention and secret coercive measures for those suspected of serious weapons offences. If you leave home with a sharp-charged weapon, you risk not coming home again for two years, because then you will be arrested in anticipation of trial. We need to get those guns off the streets. And we're betting on camera surveillance. Right now there are more cameras up than ever before in Sweden. Here in Stockholm we have it in Husby, Rinkeby and Tensta, and in Ronna in Södertälje it was set up last autumn. We have it around Sevedplan in Malmö, and I saw that it is now on its way in Gottsunda in Uppsala and in several other places. During the spring, we will go to the Riksdag with a bill that will further increase the possibilities for camera surveillance in crime-prone locations. At the same time, we must further develop the secret coercive measures. We need to keep pace with technological developments and with the development of crime, and that is why we need, for example, to have the possibility of secret data reading. We are developing the tools of the police, but it does not help if you do not have enough staffing. That is why we are now carrying out a major expansion of the police organization. We have doubled admission to police training, from 600 to 700 per year, as it was during the previous bourgeois government, to over 1,300 this year. We will continue with this and also start two new police training courses, one in Malmö and one in West Sweden, so that in a few years' time, until 2024, we have increased the number of police employees by 10 000. In order to achieve this, I think we will need to increase the number of police students further in the coming years, perhaps up to 2 000 per year, as Helene Petersson mentioned in her previous speech – 1 000 per intake. Fortunately, I can see that there are very many young people who want to become police officers – almost 10 000 were now looking for the last round, which was an increase in relation to the previous one. More and more kids want to be cops. To answer the question about the demands that came up here earlier, I would like to say that no one will be approved as a police officer without complying with the physic requirements or without a driving licence. So don't spread that picture any further! No one will be approved without meeting the requirements. In order to cope with the expansion that we are now making in the police business, as many have done, the attractiveness of the police profession must be further enhanced. We have to keep those who are police officers. I have said many times that that time is over when you trained a police officer and then could expect him or her to stay that way for the rest of his life. It's not like that anymore. The private sector is twitching in the police, especially now that the labour market is so bright and unemployment is as low as it is and there are shortcomings in many other places. It will then be even more important for us as state employers to understand that, like all other employers, we are competing in the labour market for the best skills. That is why we need to have working conditions that will keep the police here. Because they want to stay and are passionate about the task – they have chosen this – but they must have the right conditions and better conditions. The issue of wages is, of course, part of this, and right now the Police Authority and the Police Federation are in negotiations on wages for the coming years. I am sure that they, as parties, will take responsibility for this in a good way. Wages must be raised, but it is the parties who are responsible for wage formation, not the Riksdag or the Government. Madam President, I would like If we're going to pick up organised crime with its roots, we have to put the most crime-active individuals in jail. Yes. But we also need to break the new recruits to the criminal gangs. The professional group I've talked to most over the years has been police officers working in the field. They almost always say three things: Yes, we have to be more. Yes, we need better tools. But they also say: Keep in mind that it is not just about us! If this is to work, the surrounding society must also work. If a negative development is to be reversed, the school must also work, and there must be a social service that has good resources and can act. There must be a leisure activity that enables children to develop, even if it may not always look good at home, in the family. There must be enthusiasts in Organisational Sweden – in sport and culture – who can help lead young people who are heading in the wrong direction in another direction. That is why we always say: we must fight crime, but we must also fight the causes of crime. This will of course be much easier if Sweden's young people can feel confident in the future, and then the opportunity to get a job will be crucial. I remember when, a few years ago, we dismantled the expensive subsidies for young people in the labour market introduced by the previous government and instead focused support on those young people who really need help getting into the labour market. I remember the opposition protesting in the sky and saying that youth unemployment would now fade away. And so it was just the opposite. The other day, the Employment Service found that we now have the lowest youth unemployment in many, many years. We'll have to go over ten years back to find lower numbers. And we pass the 90-day guarantee, that is, all young people who are unemployed are offered jobs, training or internships within 90 days. A lot of people thought that was impossible, but we can do that now. It is a fantastic success that I think we should all be happy about. This is hugely important in preventing crime. When young people can have confidence in the future and see that they have bright prospects and that there is an opportunity for them to get a job, the risk of some of them ending up in abuse or crime is also reduced. So once again, breaking organised crime is ultimately about safeguarding the rule of law. And we can do this if we decide to do so and if we both prevent and fight crime. The state is basically always stronger than the gangs. So far as organised crime is concerned, but there is also another major criminal policy theme, which has become even stronger in recent times. It's men's violence against women, where sexual crimes are a part of it. We have the ongoing metoo campaign, where we have seen revelations in the area by area. It started with the film industry, then the wider cultural sector, politics, civil protection, the restaurant industry – there is hardly any industry now that does not have a corresponding call. A few weeks ago, we saw a legal appeal under the heading. Then there were 4,445 women in the legal profession who protested against sexism, harassment and generally swineish behaviour from men in the business – 4,445! And it was still only the first day – the call then grew after a few days. This is shaking. And that's good. Above all, it shows an existing and growing social problem. This was confirmed a few weeks ago by the Crime Prevention Council, which was able to show that the proportion of women who reported having been subjected to various types of sexual abuse has increased sharply in recent years. And it is such a sharp increase, Madam President, that it cannot be explained in any other way than that it is an actual increase. What's happening now is that the lid is lifted off, and we'll see what we might all know existed, more or less, but that we didn't talk about. Now we can talk about it, because all these women have broken the ice. And when you have to talk about one thing, you can no longer close your eyes. Then you have to act. Of course, we need to know more about what is happening. In this debate, I see that some are almost obsessed with ethnicity, that is to say that one should point out at all costs than one and than the other group of people as more guilty than others. Like what Linda Snecker said earlier, I believe that the metoo calls show more than anything else that this is a problem that exists throughout society, in all sectors and in all social classes. It's in the suburbs, but maybe it's also at the law firm on the nice street. There may even be in the Swedish Academy as well. Of course, we need to know more about developments. Therefore, we will instruct the Crime Prevention Council to deepen the analysis of sexual offences in order to answer the questions about the causes. But it is an unbiased analysis that should be done, and we, as politicians, should not lead the Crime Prevention Council in one direction or another. An unbiased analysis must be carried out. Of course, just analyzing is not enough. At the same time, we must act. This very month, in December 2017, we are going to the goal of a series of legislative projects aimed precisely at combating men's violence against women. Last week we suggested that it would be easier to impose a restraining order on the person who has a restraining order, but who does not comply with the restraining order, with a anklet. Tomorrow will be further legislative proposals aimed at combating human trafficking and trafficking. Next week we have another package. And just before Christmas we will go to the Law Council with the major reform of sexual crime legislation with a consent regulation, with stricter penalties in some respects and with better support for victims. It is not a coincidence that we will be able to deliver so much right now. These are legislative projects which we essentially started when we took office three years ago and which are now ready. We started them once because we knew that men's violence against women and lack of respect for sexual integrity is one of our major social problems. We hope to have broad support for the legislative proposals that we now submit to Parliament. Madam President, I would like Finally, laws in all honor. But if we are to succeed in this for real, we must also be prepared to have a deeper discussion on the more general approach between women and men. One thing unites almost all perpetrators of these crimes, and almost all perpetrators are men. It is clear that if men's violence against women is to stop, it is men who must change. But it's worse than that, as everyone knows. Men don't just commit almost all crimes against women. Men also commit almost all crimes against other men. In short, men commit almost all crimes, at least if we talk about the greater crime. It is enough to look at what it looks like in the prisons and who is sitting there. Before men protest on the subject that not all men commit crimes—I also know that this is the case—we must, after all, take it to heart that it looks that way. We cannot escape the fact that it is something that is not completely healthy, simply. We may also need to examine ourselves — what expectations we have of each other and also of ourselves and how we learn to be. This is a much larger and deeper discussion. At best, however, this flood of stories that is now pouring out can lead not only to the sudden arrival of a language to talk about things that we have not talked about before, but perhaps also to the start of identifying solutions. Madam President, I would like Organised crime and men's violence against women are the two major themes that dominate criminal policy at the moment. The budget we are now dealing with and the legislative proposals that are now coming provide a good basis for combating both.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-301	Madam President, I would like There is much to worry about when it comes to the development of crime in Sweden. The long-term trend has been clearly positive. Over the last 20 years, most things have improved. There are some things that have broken that trend. It is the development of gang violence, it is fraud, which has increased avalanche, and it is sexual crime, which has increased and continues to increase. However, I believe that there is also a risk of debt building up and that these statistics do not show the whole picture and that we will soon see a rather sharp downward turn. This is because when the police have such scant opportunities to work, they have to give priority to things rather harshly. First in line comes the intervention activity. When we call 911, the police have to pull out to save lives. In the next step, the police will investigate the crimes that have been committed. Once it has been completed, crime prevention activities can be pursued. Today we have a situation where the police can't even get on all the alarms that are being called in. We'll see how investigations are piled up. Then it's crime prevention that has to be ironed on the foot. There is a risk in this. I'm a little perplexed about why it's been so slow trying to get to grips with this. My party leader, Annie Lööf, marked this already in her Christmas speech 2015. There's a new Christmas speech coming up on Tuesday, so check it out. In the Christmas century, major additional resources were announced to the police, because we saw that this was something that was just about to go down the pipe. Now the government is betting. True, you don't bet as much as the Center Party and the Alliance, but you bet. That's good. But my question is, what took you so long?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-306	Madam President, I would like The short answer is that we first had to deal with the budget deficit. We inherited a budget deficit of 60 billion from the previous government. That is why we were not in fact able to make such a great deal of effort in virtually any areas. We had to have a very tight fiscal policy both in 2015 and much of 2016 to do this. Madam President, I would like We cannot continue to lend ourselves, however worthy of purpose it may be, in the way that the old government unfortunately did. You have to take care of your public finances. When you have money in the register, you use it. That's what we're doing now. This is the biggest investment from one year to another, 2017 – 2018, with 2 billion more. Something similar has not been seen in the last 20 years. A lagging problem, which has been discussed earlier in the debate, is that you trained so few. In 2014, you brought in 689 police students. It is not difficult to see retirements in the future. Just look at the demographics in the police force. Then we know that between 400 and 500 police officers retire each year. If you bring in only 689 police students when 400 to 500 police officers retire, the margin is far too small. Some of the policemen who are active may want to do something else, especially when the labour market is very strong and many are twitching them from different directions. The short explanation that we are making this effort now is that there is now plenty of money in the cashier. Unfortunately, it did not when we took office in 2014. With regard to the backlog in police training, it takes two and a half years to train a police officer. Now we must ensure that we continue the expansion that we are in the process of, and I hope that the Centre Party will support it.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-312	Madam President, I would like It is a little strange that this answer is slightly different from the answer given by the former Minister for the Interior of this government to this question. I already asked in February 2016 why you didn't bet and if you didn't have to bet. I got a clear no in answer. It was not said at the time that there were no resources due to budget deficits, but then there was no need. Was it that the government did not see this need in 2016, or did you see it and wanted to do something when you couldn't afford it? These are two different answers, and I would like the Government to clarify what is going on. Uncertainty spreads across the country. I know that my colleague Helena Lindahl has discussed this from her local and regional perspective. We have areas that extend over areas corresponding to the whole of Denmark where there is only one available police car. In that situation you get to sit many hours in the car and go back and forth. A policeman I was talking to had traveled 600 miles [700 km] during a shift — 600 miles [700 km]! That's all of Skåne. We need to see this to see the seriousness of the situation, I think. Something else I would like to take this opportunity to raise when I still have the Government on the line is witness protection. The Center Party adds 50 million a year to strengthen witness protection. It is incredibly serious that people do not dare to testify, and it is hugely important for the whole confidence in the judiciary that people can actually be induced to stand and testify. What does the government intend to do to strengthen witness protection?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-315	Madam President, I would like To begin with, I don't think Skåne is 700 km, but I think it is about 50 × 200 km square – or rectangle. It is therefore much worse than that when it comes to geographical areas. The police are supposed to be all over the country. That is our absolute ambition. That is why we must ensure that, as the expansion of education is now taking place – as I said – we have doubled the pace of education from this year – we also allocate the resources that come out in a good way. The problem, however, is that we cannot take police officers off the shelf, so to speak, but are bound by the previously rather low police training rate. If you train only 689 police officers, there won't be any more. Now I received 295 police officers who went out last fall, and they are well spread throughout the country. There are no shortcuts here. It is about training more people, and it is also about re-recruiting people who have left the profession. Here the police conducted a campaign this summer and received more than 150 calls for interest. There are many police officers who have left the profession but then miss it and want to go back. They miss what they once burned for when they chose the police profession – that feeling or the cold, so to speak – and they very much want to go back. Now, as I said, the police, together with the Police Federation, are conducting such campaigns to get them back into business. We must also ensure that people stay in the organisation. That is why we have given a special mandate to the Police Authority to improve working conditions and career opportunities. There is also the issue of wages, and at the moment this is being negotiated. I am happy to come back to witness protection; I see that we need to do reinforcements in the future too.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-320	Madam President, I would like Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson is very pleased. If there are any problems, it is the Alliance's fault that it is. However, the reality is that insecurity is increasing in Sweden. Every third woman feels afraid to be outdoors in the evening in her own residential area. The number of vulnerable areas is increasing. Sex crimes are on the increase. Despite talk of more policemen, the reality is that we've had fewer police officers. My first question to you, Minister of Justice and Home Affairs, is: Are you proud of your results for the first three years? My second question is about a very important area, not least on the basis of what has emerged in the Metoo discussion, but also on the basis of what is actually happening in relation to sexual crimes. You have to be able to keep two things in your head at the same time. It is about a broad change of attitude in men, but one must also be able to see that there may be specific problems we have to deal with. I noted that there was now talk of a survey of sexual crimes. I welcome that. Can the Minister of Justice and Home Affairs thus confirm that this is a broad survey that Mr Brå will be able to do in exactly the way it has done in the past, for example in 2005?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-324	Madam President, I would like Tomas Tobé asks me if I'm proud. I'm extremely proud of the Swedish police. I see fantastic police work done in many, many places in the country. Just take Malmö, where we have had trouble with shootings during the year. It gathers power and makes sure to really go on the most criminal and criminally active individuals, and now over 80 people are in custody. It is part of the strategy – we must ensure that those who are most active in crime are taken from the streets. At the same time, through social efforts, we must break the new recruitment to the criminal gangs. Both parts are needed. I see how to go from address to address on Norra Grängesbergsgatan, i.e. a street that has been a haven for all-gender types of crime. There have been black clubs, there have been prostitution and there has been drug trafficking. It has been illegal housing where people who reside illegally in the country simply live, in miserable forms. There you go with the Tax Agency, the municipality, the environmental and health protection authorities, Kronofogden and other authorities and clean up the address by address to combat this type of crime. I see how Vivalla in Örebro now invests a great deal of effort in preventive activities. It has become much better just in recent years. I see Gothenburg, where the shootings have been halved in a year. I am proud of the Swedish police and what it does, but I am also very aware that you need better resources and better tools. That is exactly what we are now providing the police with. In relation to sexual crimes, Tomas Tobé was right: In the regulation letter to the Crime Prevention Council, we give a mandate to analyse the background to this. If you are going to do exactly as you did in 2005, I am not going to interfere – it must in fact be the authority itself that will have to decide it – but one should look at, among other things, what the reasons might be for us to see this development.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-329	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister of Justice for nurturing his view of the survey on the basis of the first comments made when the Moderates presented this. That is a good thing, and it may give the authority some opportunity to continue working on the issue. My first question, however, was whether the Minister of Justice was proud of his work. Now the Minister of Justice is talking very well about Swedish police, and so can I. It is amazing to see how Swedish police work every day, and some results we have now also been able to see in both Bishopsgården and Malmö when it comes to shootings. Words, however, do not help here, but it is politics that is needed. In other words, the police need more colleagues. Then it is not so interesting that a Social Democratic Party Congress claims to want 10 000 more police officers. Your result, Minister, is that there have been fewer police officers with this government. That was my question: are you proud that after three years of this government there are fewer policemen in our streets and squares? If we are to achieve the target of more police officers, I do not believe that the issue of wages will be avoided. There will be no escape from adding more funds to a targeted wage effort to raise police salaries. That is why another question, Madam President: why should it be so difficult for this government to realise that the situation is so serious that we need to make targeted efforts to the police? Why is it only when it comes to teachers that it is urgent to make such efforts?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-333	Madam President, I would like The question is, in that case, what initiative is to be taken? I have listened to the debate, and the Center proposes 2 000 a month, I think. The Moderates propose 3,000 a month, and the Liberals propose what – 4,000 a month? Last time I heard KD, who said there'd be 5,000 a month. I think that in itself it shows how impracticable it is to take wage issues into the parliament and the government. We have a labour market model in Sweden that has delivered real wage increases in Sweden for 20 years. It is because it is based on the partner model, i.e. that the parties themselves take responsibility for wage formation. Then we finance it from the public treasury once agreements have been concluded, but we do not go in and decide how much nurses should have, how much the fire officers should have, how much the police should have and how much others who work in the public should have. It'll be almost impossible in the end. You can say that you should put on a thousand or two, Tomas Tobé, but you still have to go down to the detail level and look at which groups it would be about. Some people, with some services, might have a bigger push while others should have a smaller push. Should the Riksdag sit and decide that too? It's not working. Let us safeguard the Swedish labour market model – it delivers real wage increases year after year. However, we must ensure that the authorities are resourced in such a way that they are able to do so. The Police Association does not want it this way either. They also want it to be the parties who should take responsibility, not that we should sit here and decide on this. Now the Police Authority and the Police Federation are negotiating their salaries. I am absolutely sure that they will take responsibility for wage formation, just as they have always done, and that the outcome will be good. I am quite sure that they will soon come to terms with this. What will Tomas Tobé do with his claims in this House when it turns out that the parties have already taken responsibility?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-339	Madam President, I would like I believe that you, Morgan Johansson, have just done something extremely important here in Parliament by really showing, as Minister of Justice, where the responsibility lies in terms of men's violence against women. I think you did something very important by taking seriously, as a man and government representative, the roar of the Metoo. I'm glad. I think we are currently standing at something that will lead to a change, which I know both you and I want to see. Thank you for that statement – it warms me as a feminist very much! However, that is not what I was going to say in this change of line. Rather, I would like to talk about how we are going to overcome the benefits of welfare and economic crime. According to the Crime Prevention Council, economic crime targeting welfare is linked to organised crime, especially in Sweden's three major cities. It is not uncommon for gangs to take over completely legal and well-functioning companies, which have a good economic history, and then use them all the way. For example, gangs can buy goods on credit or use black labour or various forms of grants. When the bills are then to be paid, the entire company is emptied and the members of the board of directors are gone. This benefits organised crime, which is partly living on a black economy.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-344	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the warm words, Linda Snecker! For me, it goes without saying that if you're going to change this, it's men who have to change – that's how simple it is. We must also reflect on our own attitude at times. We must be prepared to speak out when things are said that are unacceptable, even when they happen in closed rooms. At the same time, it is no coincidence that what we deliver in December – our entire reform package – is coming now. Some of these processes we started already in opposition, not least with regard to the regulation of consent, on which we launched a new investigation. Several investigations we started already the first week after we took office in 2014. Let's go to the finish with this. The chance is perhaps that it will come at the same time as the Metoo, which makes it even clearer that we have to do something about this. With regard to economic crime and privatisation, I agree that during the last parliamentary term there was a trivial view of privatising parts of public activity, which was also remarkable. I believe that there was far too much confidence in private companies to manage public money well. That is why we appointed a special investigator, Lars-Erik-Erik Lövdén, whose task was to go through and press all the public systems to see where the risks are for leaking and for organised crime to enter the public systems. He left his report this spring, and we will be able to deliver a great deal of legislative proposals in this area in the spring to fill the gaps that exist.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-350	Madam President, I would like I have looked at this inquiry into qualified welfare crime and cheating with compensation. Many proposals look good, but what is missing in the investigation and which I hope can be addressed in the bill are the bureaucratic reliefs against entrepreneurs that the Alliance government carried out. This was done in an eagerness to make it easier for companies, which is worthwhile, but there were no control mechanisms to avoid the systems being used all the way. The Swedish National Audit Office will now, I believe, produce a report on the abolition of audit duties and the effects this has had on crime. What concerns me is that next week the Committee on Civil Liberties will reject a motion by the Left Party and refer to an announcement by the Alliance that more companies will not be subject to audit, which will lead to opening up to the fact that it will be even easier to engage in financial crime. Here's a big complication. The Alliance makes announcements that can lead to an increase in economic crime and does not see the full extent of the misuse of welfare gains. We need to have a duty of audit and a bit of red tape in order for ugly companies not to exploit the welfare system we have. I am concerned that the Alliance does not see the scope of how economic crime benefits organised crime. We have to deal with this.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-354	Madam President, I would like We see this. We have said from the outset that we need to make a criminal policy assessment of all the new proposals that we are putting forward, for example in the area of industrial policy. There is a risk of using public limited liability companies, for example, as a crime tool. There are also risks if control over employment support, which the Employment Service paid out without a ceiling during the previous period, is not sufficient. For example, one could hire a caretaker with a salary of 60,000 to 70,000 a month but then not even give him half but put the money in his own pocket. There were no regulators. The system with RUT and ROT is also often wide open for cheating and falsification. The Lövdén has put forward a proposal that it should be required to pay for RUT services and ROT services with traceable means of payment, i.e. not with cash but with invoices or cards, so that it can be checked afterwards and see how much money it has been about. There are lots of these bureaucratic details that simply have to be screwed up. As I said, there are a number of proposals in Lövdén's investigation that we are now working on. We are not the only ones who have seen this. A couple of years ago, Anna Dahlberg, who is the leader of the Expressen, wrote a great leader pointing to – and, I believe, even formulated it as – that the Alliance had opened up the funds to the criminals by not being sufficiently aware of and vigilant about this very thing. After all, Expressen is a liberal newspaper!
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-359	Madam President, I would like I would like to touch on a question that Johan Hedin asked, to which I think he did not really get an answer. Johan Hedin raised a question which he put to Morgan Johansson's predecessor, former Minister of the Interior Anders Ygeman. In February 2016, he asked if we don't need to invest in more police officers and got a clear answer – no! In 2014, Anders Ygeman reportedly told several senior police chiefs that it does not matter if the number of police officers is 19 000 or 20 000. Morgan Johansson has not wanted to answer this, and Anders Ygeman said in a radio debate the other day that it was nonsense. I wonder whether this is simply wrong. It is easy in a debate to blame the Alliance, that the Alliance did too little. However, the government itself signalled as recently as a year and a half ago and three years ago so clearly that no more police officers are needed, and during the gallows, after severe pressure from the opposition, there was, at least from the Social Democrats, the proposal for 10 000 more police workers. It doesn't really get serious considering these quotes back in time. My question is, on the one hand, what responsibility the government has—you can't just blame the Alliance—and, on the other hand, what the money will be enough for. Will the money that the government has set aside in its budget be enough for 10 000 more police officers and a strong pay bet on police officers. This is a false statement by Morgan Johansson, because the Police Federation has actually proposed and demanded a police salary initiative, a targeted effort, but it is of course the parties who will distribute the funds. We in the Alliance do not want to set the exact salary amounts, but we want a targeted police effort to make it sufficient for increased wages. Will the government's money be enough for 10,000 more police officers and massively increased wages?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-365	Madam President, I would like We have said that we will have 10,000 more police employees by 2024. That is what we are going to do now, and resources are going to do. And as I said, the 2 billion we're allocating next year is more than the Police Authority itself wanted. They loved 1.6 billion, and they get 2 billion. Then we step it up to 2.3 billion and the following year to 2.8 billion. Our firm ambition is exactly that. In fact, our ambition is higher than that of the Moderates. The Moderates want 10,000 more employees by 2025, and we say we want 10,000 more employees by 2024. They also say that they want 5 000 civilian workers and 5 000 police officers. The distribution today is about one third of civilian staff and two thirds of police officers. Then perhaps we are talking about 6 000 – 7 000 police officers and 3 000 – 4 000 civilian workers by 2024. It's the Police Authority that's supposed to assess the distribution in between, but somewhere maybe we're going to land. We say that we are prepared to increase training places further. There will be more training places and up to 2 000 new police students per year to be admitted. Yes, we are prepared to resource so that we reach our goal, and we believe that the money we have now spent on next year and for the years to come goes this far. As I said, the issue of wages lies with the parties. I am sure that a good solution will be found, and it is a matter of weeks until it is done. With regard to what Anders Ygeman has said, he has clearly said that that is completely wrong, and I have no reason to doubt that. There is probably some reputation that is spreading, but he says it is completely wrong.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-371	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is true that the government spends more on the Police Authority than the Police Authority has wanted. But the police department has not wanted money for 10 000 police employees, so my question is: how much money will be left when you take the height to have 10 000 more police employees. We Christian Democrats want 10 000 more police officers. But we also want to see a targeted wage increase, so that there will not suddenly be a small tummetot left for the police in external service, so that more people will not stop. 950 police officers quit last year, and 800 have finished so far this year. We need to stop this and we need to get them back. Then you can have information campaigns and you can turn to them, but what many of them themselves say is that the difference in pay becomes too big when they get a job offer elsewhere. You may not have to match the whole difference, but they have mortgages to pay, families to support, and they need a defensible raise. That is why we want a targeted wage investment, so that the money does not disappear far in the future. The money must end up in police wallets, so that they choose to stay in the profession. Attractiveness needs to be increased, and police officers who have stopped must be lured back. What is unclear about the government's budget is what the parties have. The Police Federation has requested funds for a police pay-as-you-go. Morgan Johansson said in his speech here earlier that they do not want it. They do not want us politicians poking at wage levels, and nobody from the Alliance has proposed it. We are talking about what our targeted wage initiatives would do, for example, if we wanted to increase the salaries of police officers in external service. Then, of course, it is time for the parties to negotiate wages. But when you do not point out how much money there is to be moved with, when you promise a promise of 10,000 more police officers at the same time, I am concerned that there will be far too little wage investment.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-374	Madam President, I would like This doesn't make any sense. One cannot say in one breath that the parliament and government should not take over wage formation and say in the next breath that the police should have 5,000 or if there is now 2 000, 3 000 or 4 000 more, depending on which bourgeois party you ask – you have completely different views in that part. Now we've taken over the wage formation. Once upon a time, we respect the Swedish labour market model, the one who has delivered our wage increases over 20 years. There, it is the parties who take responsibility for wage formation. They're the ones negotiating, and they're sitting right now doing it. As little as the alliance governments stepped into the wage formation of the police during their period, we will do so. I looked at wage developments, average wages, during the time of the alliance government, and it was not so terribly brilliant. I believe that wages rose by about 2 – 2.5 percent per year. Perhaps there is a backlog here that needs to be taken into account. But now we're letting the parties negotiate. We fund, and we do not take the actual wage formation into the government and parliament. The Police Federation also doesn't want us to sit here and decide on salaries. Andreas Carlson asks if the money will be enough. Yeah, it depends a little bit on the election. If we remain in office, we will continue to give priority to public activities, to the judiciary, to major tax cuts. But if there's a change of government, it might be different. In your eight years, you reduced taxes by 140 billion! And you increased the police funds by about 5 billion. It clearly shows the priority you made. We're making a different priority. We see that there is a great need in the judicial system, and that will be our priority in the forthcoming parliamentary term if we win the elections.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-378	Madam President, I would like Imagine that we were able to both lower the tax and invest more money in the police during the alliance government years, in terms of bnp per capita. It's during your time, Morgan Johansson, that we've lost the most cops every year. It is during your time as the responsible minister that we have the most empty seats in police training. You have zero credibility. How would the EUR 100 million that you announced exactly a year ago for this financial year have been sufficient for all that you are promising? The truth is, Madam President, that the Social Democratic-led government does not have a single crown to raise the salaries of the police – not a single crown! We want a salary bet of SEK 4 000 for all police officers, and that would be SEK 4 000 based on the budget we are presenting. You may want to bet 2 000, 3 000 or 10 000, but say so! But you don't have any money in your budget. The only reason you backed up in April and are now literally turning against the police budget for next year is that the chief of police said that if he does not get more money, he must fire 1 500 employees – in a situation of increased crime, increased insecurity and fewer and fewer police officers. This is the result of the so-called police policy of the Social Democrats. My second question concerns police training. In 2011, 2013 and 2014, more were trained than in 2015, and in 2012 more were trained than in 2016, when you were responsible for this policy area. Unlike you, we are investing more in trial capacity at the Recruiting Authority. You don't match the investment in police training. On the contrary, I was told the other day that the Recruiting Authority is now going to cut the number of seats. How are you gonna get this together, Attorney General?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-385	Madam President, I would like You lowered the tax by 140 billion and spent 5 billion on the police. Already there, it was wrong. You say you did it. But you didn't because you borrowed from foreign banks. The inheritance from you was 60 billion in deficit. You took the entire surplus in 2006 and left behind a large deficit in 2014. You borrowed for both tax cuts and investments. You can't keep doing that. You have to have order in public finances. When you have it, you can make big investments, just like we do. You can't always go to foreign bankers and borrow as you did. Is Roger Haddad saying there won't be any wage increases? I heard him bombastically say that there is not a single crown set aside for wage increases in the future. I have just explained how the Swedish labour market works. It is the parties who negotiate and then finance it on the basis of the agreements signed. At this very moment, the Polisförbundet and the Police Authority are negotiating the salaries of the future, and we will, of course, finance that agreement when it is completed. But it is they who are responsible for wage formation. Don't say that there will be no wage increases, because I am absolutely convinced that it will be – and we will finance that agreement when it comes. Let's move on to police training. You brought in 689 for police training in 2014. They went out in 2016. I have pointed out several times that it is far too little when you have retirements of 400 - 500. My question to Roger Haddad is, if you wanted more cops, why did you train so few?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-391	Madam President, I would like In 2012, the Alliance government trained over 800 police officers. There were more than in 2015 and 2016. The problem is that your training effort did not have financial coverage when we stood here a year ago and you proposed only 100 million to the Swedish police, Morgan Johansson. That money would go to dismantle the old National Police Board. There was no sense in more places, higher police salaries or more employees. It's an afterthought. It's a Social Democratic turnaround. In addition, the three universities went out to DN Debate on 22 April and said that the government's commitments regarding the pace of education are unrealistic. It affects quality, it affects the practical aspects and it affects the supervision. Again, why don't you spend money on the Recruiting Authority so you can try more? You must have asked yourself why there are 400 seats empty. I have listened to and met the Recruiting Authority and read in the media, and it is said that it is not able to test all applicants. That is the core problem, not that the requirements are too high. You dropped the talent requirements last year, and that's the wrong way to go. How are you going to make it go together with all the pledges? I can't get it together.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-396	Madam President, I would like It makes sense if you do not decide to spend all your money on tax cuts as soon as you take up office. That makes sense, because then you have money left for public activities such as health care, school, justice or other things. One cannot have the biased distribution of 140 billion in tax cuts and only 5 billion to the police. Then it won't be good. When I ask Roger Haddad why they didn't train more cops, Roger Haddad will be pulled by 2012. But I'm talking about 2014, because they were the ones who went out in 2016. Roger Haddad accuses me that there were too few in 2015 and 2016, but it was your education dimensioning the years before that, Roger Haddad. If you train 689 police officers in 2014, you get too few in 2016. It's as simple as that. Why didn't you do more? Because you didn't give it priority. There are certain things that bourgeois governments never do. First of all, you will never be able to manage public finances, so there is always budget deficits after you. Second, you'll never be able to do the jobs, so there's always unemployment after you. Thirdly, you never start any new police training. We started in both Växjö and Umeå and will start in Malmö and West Sweden. It is a matter of signalling that this is an area in which we will devote a great deal of resources over the coming years. Then you get a lot of interest. It was 10,000 who applied for police training the last time, which is more than before. More and more young people want to become police officers, and that is amazingly pleasing. This means that we have good opportunities to expand as we wish. The recruitment authority has been strengthened and will be strengthened to remove the bottleneck we were talking about.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-401	Madam President, I would like I'm in favour of the reservation. What is Pesco? Is Pesco a small change, almost negligible? Yes, that's what it sounds like between shipyards in the Swedish debate. We hear it from the government that believes that Sweden is non-aligned. Alliance freedom is not affected by Pesco, says the government. The bourgeois parties have a mirrored view. Sweden is not non-aligned, so Pesco does not change anything. Cooperation only runs in the current direction. That is what the bourgeois parties say. Which of these political blocs is right? In my opinion, none of the two blocks mentioned are right to say that Pesco is a small change. Pesco is a major change in our defence policy direction that will relatively soon have major consequences. We can in itself cooperate with other countries in defence and security policy without giving up the freedom of alliance. That is true, but there is a limit where the credibility of the freedom of alliance is beginning to be eroded. That limit is reached in several respects because we signed the host country agreement and practice the same way. Russia and China are, of course, obliged to count in their war facilities that Sweden is practicing according to the host country agreement. We get into and become part of an equation where Sweden counts as potentially offensive and tension-enhancing. Pesco is another cooperation that touches the limit of what non-aligned countries can cost. And as it is heard by the name, if Pesco leads to the formation of the EU's common defence, we will of course no longer have our freedom of alliance. In a practical sense, Pesco will be a lot about armaments development. Only the politically close-minded can miss out on the supranational mechanisms of Pesco cooperation. At the same time, by approving a system in which Member States co-operate instantaneously and intergovernmentally militarily within the EU framework, it contributes to crowding out other forms of co-operation. From the outset, part of EDF projects will be duplicating and competing with other cooperation projects outside the EU's direct influence. The Alliance, which does not believe that Sweden is non-aligned and voted in favour of the EU's common defence at the vote in the European Parliament, should consider Pesco to be in line with their ambitions for Sweden. But the government that sees Sweden as non-aligned has a lot to explain. So the SD says no to Pesco because we believe that cooperation is duplicating the partnership with NATO and that we are against the militarisation of the EU. Let's see what we got. With a Sweden-based successful defence industry that has the ability to develop technical collaborations on a market-based basis with companies in other countries, we should look more at the opportunities for bilateral cooperation with our strategic partner Brazil and with India. I can concretise with examples where Pesco leads to duplication. Example one is Military Schengen. It is the implementation programme that the government is pursuing with the aim of dismantling the national borders of the military units of other Member States. The implementation of Military Schengen results in a duplication. The host country agreement with NATO has a competing structure in terms of both law, in particular material, as well as standardisation and exercises. Example two is that the EU wants to consolidate Europe's combat aircraft production. It's supposed to be in an Eda format. If we consider a positive development in which India buys JAS 39 Gripen, then we are part of an Eda structure, in which case it will become an EU – India affair and not a Sweden – India affair. Our strategic partners would be left out if other Member States so require. It is easy to see many such examples where Pesco becomes duplicating and competing with other structures. Pesco is the beginning of a new direction that leads our armaments supply in a completely new direction. The danger in this new direction is that we will have bureaucracy, and we can fail with the Swedish negotiations within the European system. We are also committed to a European Union that we do not know if it will last in the future. It may lose more members and become obsolete. It is important to plan the long-term right. Long-term law is an equipped Sweden and Finland with strong total defence. An equipped Sweden and Finland have a war-resisting threshold. It would definitely cost more than it tastes to attack us. Our armor is defensive and does not threaten anyone. They do not create a dangerous escalation of tension in the Baltic Sea. Let us choose the right path, the same path that guided us through the last Cold War. It is a completely defence-equipped Sweden with a known defensive stance. Let us avoid taking the wrong safety policy path. Let us not create a situation in which we contribute to war affecting our country. Madam President, I would like Let Sveri give remain non-aligned!
i-4j9wsTx37RHnzMBEmCnRmd	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen of the House, listeners and Members! We are now discussing Sweden's participation in permanent structured cooperation within the European Union, Pesco. Sweden's military freedom of alliance has served us and our surrounding world well and has the opportunity to do so for a long time. Military alliance freedom has contributed to the fact that generation after generation in our country was able to live in peace and failed to experience the horrors of war. It has also given us a foreign policy room for manoeuvre which has enabled Sweden to play an important international role in peace and disarmament once the political will existed. However, Sweden has slowly but surely moved away from a traditional and successful security policy based on military alliance freedom, disarmament, peaceful solutions to conflicts, support for the UN and solidarity with the Third World. Since our accession to the European Union, Swedish military alliance freedom has been increasingly eroded. Today, we are contributing to the militarisation of the European Union, our cooperation with NATO is being strengthened and there are increasingly questions about the international military operations we are participating in. Madam President, I would like Participation in Pesco is another step in the same direction. The Left Party is against this development. In addition, participation in Pesco involves a number of commitments relating to key defence and security policy areas. The participating Member States undertake to work towards meeting the common objectives. It is about investment in defence equipment, providing support for joint EU efforts and contributing to EU combat groups, accelerating military mobility between countries and carrying out battle group exercises. For example, Sweden has already offered Vidsel as a testing area for ammunition, missiles and aircraft within the framework of Pesco. The Left Party is concerned about how large parts of Norrbotten are converted into a military training field. Increased training activities, whether taken together with NATO, Pesco or other EU constellations, are at risk of having a negative impact on people and the environment as well as on important economic activities in the region. Pesco also means a series of measures that may have an impact on future defence budgets. Moreover, it is still very unclear. For example, the platform describes how the substance of the cooperation will consist of different projects where the participants commit to participate in at least one of them. However, what the projects will consist of is largely obscured. Pesco is a cooperation of an intergovernmental nature, something the government leans on in the bill. Nevertheless, cooperation is a clear focus where the aim is to build a closer defence union within the EU. It justifies Swedish participation with complex security policy challenges in Europe. However, the development of an increasingly militarised Union contributes to increased armaments and unrest rather than to a reduction in tensions. Madam President, I would like The security situation in Europe has changed and deteriorated. We see growing contradictions, military armaments and increased confrontation on our continent and in our neighbourhood. Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and destabilisation policies in Ukraine contribute to increased tension, while NATO is also equipping our neighbourhood. Europe has fallen into a dangerous rearmament spiral. The war in Syria and Turkish human rights violations create political uncertainty, while terrorist acts and strong racist and fascist currents increase insecurity in Europe. Climate change, cyber attacks, pandemics and natural disasters must also be included in the security policy perspective. Many of the major challenges we face are not solved by military means, but other measures are needed here. These are measures based on cooperation and dialogue rather than confrontation. Madam President, I would like The Left Party believes that an independent and military non-aligned foreign policy is crucial for Sweden's freedom of action in the future. We want Sweden to focus its international security policy on peaceful solutions and on preventing crises rather than advocating military solutions. That is why we say no to the increased militarisation of the European Union by the creation of Pesco. I therefore call for the proposal to be rejected and for the Left Party's reservation to be approved.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-432	Madam President, I would like Safety and stability are something we can never take for granted. Only in our neighbourhood have we seen in recent years how the situation has deteriorated in terms of security. Safety and stability are therefore something we must always work with and take seriously. We also know that security is something we build with others. Our first defence is diplomacy and strong international relations. Through the United Nations, we are working for security, peace and stability in the world at large. Through the European Union, we are working towards a stable and cohesive Europe, a Europe without war. The EU is our most important security policy platform. The creation of security in Europe through interdependence and solidarity between the Member States must be constantly protected and developed. The EU's global strategy is based on the understanding that none of the European countries alone today can prevent or face the threats to our common security, but requires Member States to cooperate. We have much to gain by taking advantage of each other's knowledge and abilities and to develop projects together, rather than individually. In order to further harmonise defence policy and extend defence policy cooperation within the European Union, permanent structured cooperation, Pesco, is now being created. For Sweden, it is important that we are present right now, from the beginning, in order to have influence over the decisions that are made and be able to influence the design of the cooperation. It also gives us a better chance of influencing the implementation of the EU's common foreign, security and defence policy. Already in the defence-oriented decision, which we adopted in June 2015 in Parliament, we stated that cooperation in the EU takes a special place in Swedish foreign and security policy. Even then, we said that the EU should be strengthened as a security policy actor and that Sweden should actively contribute to the conceptual development of the common security and defence policy. A Swedish membership of Pesco is therefore well in line with the defence policy decision. Important in this context, given the misunderstandings that easily arise, is that Pesco is voluntary for the Member States and nothing that affects national sovereignty. The voluntary, intergovernmental basis also makes it consistent with our freedom of alliance. The fact that we are non-aligned does not mean that we should not cooperate with others. We cooperate because it benefits both parties, individually and jointly, to do so. By sharing knowledge, experiences and abilities, we become stronger together. That is why cooperation is an important part of the Social Democratic defence and security policy. Madam President, I would like Pesco enables and simplifies closer cooperation between EU Member States. Precisely which projects Sweden will participate in remains to be seen, but it is clear that Sweden has a lot to win. Pesco represents a number of commitments, all of which aim to increase cooperation between Member States, reduce overlap and strengthen national capacities. It is worth noting that commitments are policy objectives to be met over time and taking into account national circumstances. Through Pesco, EU Member States can further harmonise their needs. We undertake to increase cooperation on cyber defence through information exchange, training and operational support. Another of the commitments means that Member States should increase interoperability, i.e. the ability of systems to work together. In addition to the overall objectives of Pesco, the participating countries undertake to participate in at least one of its projects. It is the Member States themselves who propose the projects and decide which projects they want to be included in. From the Swedish side, as we have heard before, we have proposed cooperation on joint tests in Vidsel in Norrbotten. Vidsel already has a large training area, Europe's largest. We Social Democrats believe that Pesco is an important step in strengthening the EU as a security policy platform and therefore call for approval of the committee's proposal for Swedish participation in permanent structured cooperation within the European Union.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-444	Madam President, I would like I turn to you, Alexandra Völker, as the representative of the biggest government party and ask you: Do you not think that Sweden has departed from a traditional and successful security policy based on military alliance freedom, disarmament, peaceful solutions to conflicts, support for the UN and solidarity with the Third World, as we take further steps towards a more militarisation of the EU through participation in Pesco? The freedom of the Alliance has served us well for a very long time and has meant that generation after generation in our country has not experienced the horrors of war.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-445	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Johnsson Fornarve, for the question! I think it is very good that the Left Party, together with the Social Democrats, stands up for the Swedish freedom of alliance. It is important for Swedish foreign policy. Swedish foreign and defence policy is based on a basis of solidarity, in which we have a strong role within the United Nations and take advantage of all the international bodies we have to influence for stability, peace and disarmament. As I said earlier, the European Union is also an important such platform. We see that cooperation is important, and that is something that the Socialist Government has also been clear about. We have been clear that the United Nations is an important platform and has worked hard for a place in the UN Security Council. We have increased our cooperation in defence policy with many of our neighbouring countries, not least Finland, with which we now cooperate beyond peace-time conditions. We are also working together more closely within the European Union. This is fully in line with the Swedish and Social Democratic defence and security policies, so I think this is absolutely consistent. The basis, as I said, is that freedom of alliance remains. These are intergovernmental cooperation, and we think that is very good.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-449	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Alexandra Völker, for your answer! Nevertheless, I find it a little strange that Alexandra Völker does not see that the freedom of alliance is at risk of being eroded by entering into such enhanced military cooperation with the EU, which also means further rapprochement with NATO. If we are to become credible as an alliance-free voice for peace and disarmament in the world, we cannot create this type of alliance or form part of enhanced military cooperation in the EU. We must stand on our own feet and really stand up for the freedom of alliance. I find it strange that the Social Democrats do not see this. In the past, we have been rather restrictive about this type of cooperation, but now we are starting to abandon it. I find that very regrettable.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-451	Madam President, I would like The Social Democratic policy of safeguarding our freedom of alliance stands firm, as I said. I think that we have been clear about this throughout this term of office as well as throughout history. Our thoughts about cooperation are always in what form they should take place. That we want to cooperate we have been very clear about. We think it is important to protect different forms and platforms of cooperation. This is a platform where we have the opportunity to cooperate further with countries in Europe. Increased incentives are being created, and there is no conflict with our freedom of alliance. This is very important for us Social Democrats. That we can increase our cooperation on cyber capabilities and also be able to cooperate further in defence projects is what we think is a good thing. We have had this kind of defence industry cooperation with many countries around the world. So this is nothing new to our political view. This is certainly a new platform, and we think it is good and important. As I said, this is also very much in line with the defence policy decision adopted by Parliament in 2015. So the first is nothing new.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-455	Madam President, I would like The case concerns Sweden's participation in permanent structured cooperation within the European Union; it is usually shortened Pesco. That's exactly the name I'm going to use in the future. Most EU Member States intend to participate in Pesco as of 11 December this year. Few countries' governments, if any, do like the Swedish and go to their parliament with a bill. This is good and honorable. It is perhaps also clear that the Red-Green Government is acting in this way because, over the last three years, it has not been able to make very many proposals, but it has been aware of broad parliamentary support in Pesco and has therefore presented something which this time it is sure will win the approval of the House. If you now think it is important to have a proposal, it is notable that no minister, however, considers it worthwhile to take part in today's debate. You put forward a bill, but you don't send a minister. It says something about the government's view of Europe: it is a lot of fumbling and groping. It is difficult to see a clear, predictable and clear line on the part of the Red-Green Government. Madam President, I would like The deteriorating security situation means that we in Europe must do what we can to increase our defence efforts so that we can take greater responsibility for the security of our own continent. It is therefore a good thing that European defence cooperation is being developed and that steps are being taken to build functioning structures that also have concrete content. There is a great potential to increase cooperation so that it functions as a good complement to existing NATO military cooperation. Basically, it is about both the EU and NATO having to deal with the same kind of challenges. There is an understanding, at least in Brussels and between most of the Member States, albeit not among Swedish Social Democrats, that NATO is the harsh military core, while the EU has a larger palette of humanitarian aid, conflict management and shipowners' efforts. It is therefore obvious that those who say 'no' to NATO are now willing to say 'yes' to Mr Pesco, because these are two parts of the same whole. In light of this, the resistance of the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats is understandable, albeit regrettable. Madam President, I would like EU defence cooperation will be a wider area of cooperation than in the past. It's inevitable. Therefore, Sweden must be involved and influence. We must not end up in the same position as we are currently in with regard to NATO cooperation, which means that Sweden is reduced to the equivalent of a partner country that has only to comply with the decisions that are taken. We want to sit at the table and have the seat and voice – therefore this bill, and therefore this yes on the part of the Moderates. European defence cooperation is still in many ways in a start-up phase. This means that there are still great opportunities to influence how cooperation will develop in the future. Sweden must define what our core interests are, how we can drive them and with whom we can act. There are already about 50 projects under discussion within the framework of Pesco. The idea, as I said, is that each state should participate in at least one. Had there been a minister in place, which it does not now, my firm call to that person would have been for the government, together with the relevant authorities, to develop a credible and good project to offer everyone else within the framework of Pesco. This could be what has been mentioned about Vidsel. Obviously, no Swedish project will be appointed to participate in the first round. I therefore think that it should be a declared ambition on the part of the government, expressed by a minister if it had been possible, to have a project at least in the second round next year. Madam President, I would like From a moderate point of view, we have pointed out a number of factors that we need to take as a starting point for further work on both the Pesco framework and the more concrete aspects such as the defence fund and crisis management: The focus on increased operational capacity is needed both at national and European level. We do not want to see a common European army. It is important to protect Swedish interests. If we don't, no one else will. a guarantee of access for SMEs to the various cooperation projects; 中 Budget constraint is important. Funds should be taken from other areas to finance defence cooperation. . Cooperation shall duplicate NATO cooperation as little as possible. It is important to follow-up so that the cooperation results in increased capacity and good synergies. Finally, continued cooperation with the UK on security policy issues is important. Madam President, I would like The committee has on several occasions stressed the importance of providing international cooperation and efforts with national, follow-up objectives and that the achievement of the objectives is reported to Parliament in an appropriate manner. This also applies to participation in Pesco. The government side has not defined what is to be pursued and what objectives apply so that it can be evaluated. That's where the government side has a homework to do. What do you really want to achieve? One of the more important reasons is that the government wants to highlight Sweden's interest and ambition within the EU. It is wise and that is good, even if it is now tumbling and fumbling. Madam President, I would like Even if it is repeated to itself that this is in accordance with some sort of proclaimed alliance freedom, it does not need to be so in the eyes of others, as was illustrated in a very appropriate way by the dialogue between the Left Party and the Social Democrats. That is not how it sounds in other Member States that are now joining Pesco. In some circles in Brussels, this possibility is described as a sleeping beauty that was included in the Treaty of Lisbon. Now it's activated. This makes the countries closer to each other, and in the eyes of outsiders it becomes increasingly difficult to understand the Swedish position as it is expressed by the Red-Green Government. As a result, the government is bringing us into an increasingly tangible state of uncertainty. We're in a lot of things, and with Pesco, it's gonna be even more. We shoulder joint responsibility, and with Pesco it becomes even more. Nevertheless, we completely lack the binding security guarantee that exists only in a Swedish NATO membership and thus the protection in Article 5. I would therefore like to remind you, Madam President, of the special opinion of the Alliance annexed to the committee's report. It states that military alliance freedom is not the only option that individual states can choose to claim. Alliance freedom is also due to the fact that it gains credibility in the eyes of the outside world. For a long time, Sweden has been integrated with NATO within the framework of an increasingly advanced partnership, the so-called host country agreement and through participation in a wide range of NATO international crisis management operations. Sweden is also a member of the European Union and has participated in almost all the Union's military and civilian operations. As far as the common security and defence policy is concerned, we must be considered to be at the heart of the Union. The Red-Green Government does not seem to understand that our close cooperation with the EU and NATO affects the image and confidence of the proclaimed, military alliance freedom. This also affects the realism of the security policy pursued by the government. I would like to thank my good friend, Allan Widman, who has been holding the pen to a large extent in drawing up these wise words. Madam President, I would like Here, the Social Democrats and the Green Party have reason to give an answer. Madam President, I would like Pending a response from the Social Democrats and pending a minister who does not show up, I can say that I believe that the Green Party may perhaps be close to its parliamentary group and government representatives who, in the name of the compromise, are now behind a Swedish participation in Pesco. But they are quite far from their voters who are probably more sceptical and suspicious of this form of organised cooperation. Furthermore, I think that the Swedish Democrats may be close to their parliamentary group but that they are quite far from many of their voters who in different polls show a greater understanding that strengthened Swedish defence capabilities go through various collaborations, including a Swedish NATO membership.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-485	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by not giving the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party the right to say that I understand where their concerns come from. I would say that Pesco is a reasonable proposal and an initiative that was taken for partly the wrong reasons. It becomes clear when you listen to the European debate. As the discussions have shown, there has been a vision from some EU Member States and some government representatives in other countries, such as Macron and High Representative Mogherini, that this will be some sort of supranational military project. It is something that this government has always been sceptical about. Fortunately, Pesco did not land in that direction. On the contrary, they went on the more inclusive German line, as it has been called. This means that almost all EU Member States will participate and that the commitments are largely not very binding but are more of political ambitions. That's a good thing. Of course, I agree with what Alexandra Völker said earlier and would like to emphasise once again the importance of having cooperation at European level, including on defence issues. We are part of the European Union. We need to work with the other Member States. And there are clear points to the fact that we are contributing to joint cooperation, to creating security in our neighbourhood and that we are involved in shaping the cooperation that is now being developed. By being involved in the format, we have also been able to steer away from the supranationality that the government has made clear that it does not want to see. It is also important that we avoid any thought that it would fill some sort of territorial defence function. It's been our entrances. The Swedish democrats said earlier that they see this as a big step, as something that interferes with the freedom of alliance. I can't really get it together. If you think it interferes with the freedom of alliance, the fundamental problem should be that we are in the European Union. The Swedish democrats are critical of this and are therefore consistent in this way. But for those of us who think that Sweden should be part of the EU and cooperate with other countries, this is a logical step to take on an intergovernmental basis. There are clear benefits from collaboration also from the more pacifist school, in which my party has roots. Lotta Johnsson Fornarve spoke a little dreamily about the more strict freedom of alliance during the Cold War, when Sweden advocated disarmament. Sweden has a large production of weapons today. But I would like to remind you that it was much larger during the Cold War. We could produce everything ourselves and be able to support the Swedish defence. Then we needed to export. So our arms exports are closely linked to the policy we pursued at the time. Cooperation with other countries will make it possible to reduce arms production in the EU if it is done properly. It contributes to security, for the neighbourhood and for the European countries. We also have reduced costs, which the Left Party should also be able to see as positive. Finally, I would like to say that Europe should be based on cooperation and help to create security in our neighbourhood. Pesco can contribute to that. But there should be no EU army. The government, and I also believe most opposition parties, will keep an eye on this.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-494	Madam President, I would like I am a little disappointed that no Minister from the Social Democrats took part in the debate and that there were no Socialist lines. That's why I get to take a line on the red-green side, and that battle gets Anders Schröder from the Green Party fighting. It may not be entirely grateful, but now it is what it is. I would first like to ask a few questions about what was said in the speech by the Left Party. Does the red-green side see this as a militarisation of the EU? As I was trying to describe, it is a whole – that is what we are talking about in Brussels. But it is handled in two ways: in the NATO structure and in the EU structure. The question is relevant and deserves an answer from the red-green side. The second issue concerns a project that the Red-Green Government highlights and which I hope you can do more for, when you get it in as a European project within the framework of Pesco. It's about Vidsel. Is it militarisation of Norrbotten should more people start using Vidsel? Madam President, I would like I want Anders Schröder to correct me if I'm wrong. One of the main reasons why the Red-Green Government has put forward the proposal is that it wants to influence and develop what is now being created within the framework of Pesco. You want a seat, you want a voice, you want to be at the table. Is it correct to understand that this is the driving force behind the Social Democrats and the Green Party supporting permanent structured cooperation in the field of defence and crisis management?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-498	Madam President, I would like As for whether this should be militarisation, we have been clear about, and it has been clear in the agreement on Pesco itself, that it is cooperation that should not include any form of EU army or territorial defence. On the other hand, action groups in the area are discussed. If you want to call it militarisation or not, Hans Wallmark will decide. In any case, I think there are clear points that Sweden contributes to safety in our neighbourhood. And, of course, we need to work with other countries to do so in different ways. This could be such a forum. As far as the Swedish driving force is concerned, there is no answer to that. We make a variety of balances. But of course we're weighing it in, too. We have also influenced the actual discussion about the founding of Pesco. By participating in these discussions, we have been able to steer the formation of Pesco in a certain direction. As Alexandra Völker put it, there is also a value in entering Pesco directly. The initial decisions will shape the direction for a long time to come.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-502	Madam President, I would like Anders forgot a question. I'm sure it was an oversight. Don't misinterpret it as criticism. This concerned whether the Vidsel project should be seen as part of the militarisation of Norrbotten. That discussion took place, and the Left Party has highlighted it. It would therefore be elegant if the Green Party could develop its view on it. I wish that project could get air under its wings and become a Pesco project. It would have been good if it had been so in the first round. Now I hope that this government will do what it can to at least get rid of it in the second round. Anders Schröder says you're clear. There is a duality in that with clarity. Therefore, there is reason not only to listen to what the Social Democrats and the Green Party in the Red Green Government want. It is also wise to listen to what is said in Brussels and what other Member States are saying. There is a completely different driving force in Pesco. You see it as a duality – you have the hard, military core of NATO, and you have the softer yet combinable power of the EU. And together you're going to solve joint projects. That's why it's hard to see where one begins and the other ends. And so there are recurring warnings for duplicating. If you didn't drift into each other, nobody would talk about the risk of duplication. In this respect, I would like to point out to the Left that this is still part of increasing defence efforts in Europe. It's basically good. Madam President, I would like It is good that the Green Party confirms my view that a driving force is to have a seat and a voice. It is strange that people want to sit at various meeting tables – the UN, the EU, Nordefco, the Nordic Council and now Pesco. However, the only meeting table that is crucial and that affects Swedish defence and security policy, namely NATO, does not want to sit on it. When decisive decisions are to be made, you want to be sent out into the kitchen. Can the Green Party explain that?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-508	Madam President, I would like Yes, then we will return to Hans Wallmark's and perhaps the Alliance's favorite subject in these contexts. It's a discussion that you and I have had a few times before. The NATO discussion is much broader than just the question of whether or not to sit at the table. It is about a broader security policy analysis of both our neighbourhood and Sweden's role, and how we view Russia's development, and how we want to handle this. There's something that you and I could discuss here and back for half an hour. I note that the government makes a different assessment. We want to promote detour in the immediate area as we do not think it is good to have a sharp political caste on this type of security policy issues. That is why we stand by our line of military alliance freedom. When it comes to whether different types of collaborations would involve some kind of militarisation of Norrbotten or any other part of Sweden, it is of course not so. Sweden must also be able to cooperate, that is the whole point. Then you need to consider which collaborations are reasonable. We also need to ensure that we do not turn this into some kind of extra pool of resources where the defence industry is getting more and more money that may not be justified and so on. My goal is to make things more efficient, which can ultimately lead to a reduction in exports. That's the focus I have.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-513	Madam President, I would like It's nice that Anders Schröder understands the concerns. We have also heard this from the government, that it is recognised that Pesco can be a major threat to the Swedish defence industry. Now we hear from the Green Party that it is good that the production of defence equipment is being reduced. So I have not understood the Social Democrats, so there seems to be tensions in the government. Pesco is such a small change. It's such a small cooperation that the Green Party thinks you can do well there. It is not militarising Europe. I recognise it from the referendum in Sweden on EU membership. It was then said by the proponents of 'yes' that the EU is only intergovernmental cooperation. It is not a political union and no state formation in the making and so on. My first question to Anders Schröder is: Do you think that the EU is merely an intergovernmental cooperation?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-516	Madam President, I would like It is quite easy to respond in such a way that we have a European Parliament that takes a decision. Of course, the European Parliament takes decisions that also affect Sweden. But the interesting discussion is: Is Pesco supranational or not? That's the answer no. I do not really see the connection to this debate.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-519	Madam President, I would like Of course, Pesco is an intergovernmental cooperation where you choose which parts you want to cooperate on. But if such a firm structure is built, it will grow, and so is the idea of a headquarters. We should not forget that the European Parliament has voted in favour of an EU-wide defence, which the alliance parties also voted in favour of, although they do not want to feel it now. This will not end up being purely intergovernmental. It is a desire that will not be fulfilled. What worries me a little is that the Social Democrats in the government suggest that Pesco may be a threat to the Swedish defence industry. Our defence industry is doing well and it cooperates well with companies in other countries. We have strategic partners on other continents that we can use to strengthen our industrial development. But Pesco is a threat. If we put all our eggs in the EU basket, it means that we may lose the ability to develop these successful collaborations. The Green Party suggests that it is a good thing that the production of defence equipment is being reduced. Is it not true that the Green Party also wants a strong Swedish defence industry?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-524	Madam President, I would like I think that Mikael Jansson expresses a rather deterministic and perhaps defaitistic view of the European project and of politics when he presents it as everything in Europe must always grow and that everything will always turn into some kind of superstate. It's just a question of how long it's going to take. I believe in politics and political decisions. It is we who choose how the collaborations are to be formed, provided that we are part of them. This government has been very clear about how it wants cooperation to be designed, namely on an intergovernmental basis, something that we have also heard about. I note that I do not share Mikael Jansson's analysis there. As far as the production of weapons is concerned, I do not see the strangeness of the fact that, at European level, we would like to see less overproduction of arms systems while at the same time seeking effective and effective defence. Almost all EU countries have their own arms production today, and this means producing small volumes that are not profitable and not so effective. Or you have to sell weapons systems to other countries, which creates pressure on sales. As a result, production can increase more than is necessary, which in turn contributes to increasing the security risk in countries in our neighbourhood. I believe that this is a sensible direction for security policy.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-529	Madam President, I would like The Center Party wants the EU to become a clear global political player. Then Sweden's voice will also be heard more clearly and will reach further. The global strategy provides a basis for this. It also requires the EU to be able to act as a security policy actor, both civilian and military. The defence of the EU is based on and will continue to build on the transatlantic link. NATO is vital to our security, just as it is to a large part of the EU. As has been shown in the past, the EU is complementary to NATO. In the cooperation that we are now building, transparency is important for those who have not yet made it. Transparency for the British who so far appear to be leaving the EU is also important. Madam President, I would like Today, the EU is acting with military efforts to secure peace. Sweden has participated in all joint efforts. We have taken responsibility for battlegroups, although the then opposition S, MP and V wanted to abolish them. Now everyone agrees to claim battlegroups, and that's good. The Treaty speaks of solidarity. Then we must also be able to make it credible with more than battlegroups. Permanent structured cooperation contributes to the EU's capacity to develop and jointly preserve peace, to jointly prevent conflicts and to strengthen international security in accordance with the principles of the UN Charter. It's intergovernmental. Pesco, which we are now talking about, means a joint increase in capacity – at best – as well as a desire for more efficient European defence industry, research and development. In this way, the EU will be part of a broader security policy palette to work on. Madam President, I would like There are those in this House who talk about the freedom of alliance from the past. SD and V would prefer Sweden not to be part of a political union, because that is the way to interpret some of the contributions. One should not collaborate in a structured way with others – perhaps not even with Finland, because Finland has chosen to join Pesco. Nevertheless, anyone who clearly wants to cooperate with Finland says that we should remain out of it. On the Left, it sounds as if we are still talking not only about freedom of alliance but actually about neutrality, Madam President. It's about being neutral in relation to Russia. This world view still exists in some of the speeches in this House. When I listen to the Social Democrats and the Green Party in the government, I hear that, unlike the Left and the Swedish Democrats, they think that we should be in the EU, that we are in a political union, that we should be happy to join Pesco and that we should protect the transatlantic link. They are also delighted about gold cards in NATO cooperation. However, both the Social Democrats and the Green Party – and they are probably quite alone about it today – still claim that Sweden is non-aligned. Because if you listen in this House it almost seems that even the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats now believe that Sweden is not non-aligned – especially if we decide in accordance with the bill and report to join Pesco. If we go outside the Chamber, Madam President, there is probably no one who understands that Sweden is non-aligned, because everyone sees that Sweden is part of a political union. Everyone sees that Sweden cooperates militarily in the EU with EU members. Everyone sees that Sweden cooperates closely with NATO. No one outside our borders sees any freedom of alliance, but only that the security guarantee for NATO by the S and MPs is feared. We refer to this in the joint special opinion of the Alliance in the report. I therefore support the proposal contained in the report and reject the reservations.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-540	Madam President, I would like Kerstin Lundgren mentioned the Left Party in her speech and said that we were neutral towards Russia. I think she put it that way. I would just like to make it clear that we are absolutely serious about Russia's violations of Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea by international law. However, we also see that NATO is upgrading the area, and we see an armament spiral in our neighbourhood that is very dangerous. We do not believe that more weapons and more tension in our area is the best way to face this, but we believe, believe and argue that the best way to face the increased armament is to remain unaligned. In this way, we can help reduce tension in the surrounding area. Participation in NATO would certainly not mean that. Instead, it would be a major security policy risk. I have to ask Kerstin Lundgren if she really thinks it is safe to join an organization led by a president, Donald Trump, who is extremely unpredictable. It is an organisation that has Turkey, Poland and Hungary as Member States. These are countries that can hardly be counted as the most democratic in the world. Does it feel safer to hold hands with Erdo, who hunts his own citizens and harasses and imprisons journalists, human rights activists and oppositionists, than to fight for alliance freedom?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-543	Madam President, I would like Lotta Johnsson Fornarve and the Left seem to believe that our non-aligned voice has contributed to people not being imprisoned in Turkey. I myself see that, regardless of whether we are non-aligned, this is exactly what is happening. I wonder, Lotta Johnsson Fornarve, does the Left Party believe that Ukraine and Georgia have benefited from standing outside NATO? Do you think that Russia would have annexed Crimea or be in Eastern Ukraine or Georgia if they were members of NATO?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-545	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren! I am convinced that Russia's action towards its neighbours is, of course, part of Russia's aggression. However, I do not believe that NATO's enlargement to the east has contributed to reducing tensions in our neighbourhood. In this context, I think it is absolutely important that Sweden is still non-aligned. We can act as an international voice in the world for peace and disarmament, and we can act as mediators. But we cannot do that unless we are credible with our freedom of alliance. We cannot join Pesco or NATO, because then we will lose our credibility as a mediator. I asked Kerstin Lundgren if she thinks it is safe to join an alliance with Erdo and Trump but did not really get an answer to the question. Another thing about NATO is that it is a nuclear alliance with weapons of mass destruction. Are we really going to be in such an alliance?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-549	Madam President, I would like Our outsider means that we pose a security risk. It has emerged from several investigations, which I think Lotta Johnsson Fornarve has also had the opportunity to take part in. We are outside NATO, thus creating an area, just like Ukraine and Georgia, where Russia's aggression can play. What has happened, and which Lotta Johnsson Fornarve and the Left Party have obviously not seen, is that the development that had begun before but that became visible in connection with the war in Georgia and with Ukraine and the Russian annexation of Crimea as well as the continued armament in Russia lead many of not least the border countries of Russia to feel that they are directly threatened by Russian aggression. They expect support and help from us and the European Union. There, Pesco is an important part of increasing cooperation and security. They also expect support and assistance through the clear transatlantic link and membership of NATO. When you talk about mediators, I want to give a tip to Lotta Johnsson Fornarve and the Left Party, and that is to study Norway. Our neighbour has been a member of NATO since its inception. They have had an important mediator function in many conflicts, despite membership. Rather, they say that it has been a strength, because they have had access to important actors. This is a clear signal to which there is reason to listen, including for the Left Party.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-552	Madam President, I would like I have a little problem understanding the Center Party's security policy line. It's very unclear. Of course, it has not been long since the Centre Party turned to the NATO issue, so perhaps it is such a time when the Centre Party has not really established its positions. I know that the Centre Party in the European Parliament voted in favour of an EU-wide defence. That is why I ask the question: is Kerstin Lundgren also in favour of the EU having a common defence?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-554	Madam President, I would like We are talking here about a defence union, which should not be confused with a common army. I assume that, in this context, the Swedish Democrats refer to the position taken in connection with the González Pons resolution. If so, I urge the Swedish Democrats to study the results of the vote more clearly. I know you voted no, but you should know that we abstained, just like many others in the Alliance. If there is any other report to which you refer, I think you need to be clear. We are very clear: we stand up for Swedish security policy, which should be clear and also aim for membership of NATO. This builds security. This does not do what the Swedish Democrats are trying to say – that we ourselves should be able to act and equip ourselves to resist Russian attacks. This threshold cannot even be reached by the Swedish democrats in their unrealistic draft budgets. If one is to speak of a security policy that is unclear, Madam President, it is the Swedish Democrats who are trying to strike blue-yellow thunder in the eyes of the Swedish people. I hope no one sounds fooled, because it is a rhetoric and a model that does not work in today's world – possibly in the internal space of the Swedish Democrats.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-557	Madam President, I would like That was not a clear answer. The government says that Sweden is non-aligned. We Swedish democrats say that Sweden is non-aligned, and it is our ambition to continue to be so. Without saying clearly that the Center Party has an opposite line, you are trying to ridicule us who are talking about alliance freedom. If Sweden is not non-aligned, which defence alliance are we in? Try to be clear, please!
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-559	Madam President, I would like Our starting point is to establish the facts. Sweden is not in any military alliance today. It's a fact. It is the same fact that Finland uses as a starting point for its position. From our horizon, it is clear: If we are to build security, we build security together with others and not alone, for it is not safe. We are building security together within NATO by joining, and we would like to see this happen as soon as possible. Welcome, the Swedish Democrats! You have obviously realised that if today's decision is passed, Sweden is no longer alliance-free, for then the freedom of alliance has lost credibility. This should lead to the realisation that the Swedish Democrats must also change their minds and think that we should join NATO.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-562	Madam President, I would like The European Union is, we should remember a day like this, the Union of Peace. After over a thousand years of conflict that has torn the European countries apart, we have now been able to observe 72 years of peace on our own continent. Every step of integration that takes place between the Member States makes the Union stronger and the war increasingly impossible. As Mr Wallmark has already said, it is, of course, primarily the development of the world around us that is the driving force behind the rapid development that the common security and defence policy is now undergoing. This is not least about developments in Russia, which, not only militarily but also politically, socially and, broadly speaking, continue to move in an increasingly uncertain and unpredictable direction. Of course, an important prerequisite for Pesco and the CSDP is also that since the Warsaw Summit – finally, I will say, Madam President – there has been clear coordination of efforts in the field of defence and security policy between NATO and the EU. In the Government proposal, which is repeated in the report on p. 7, there is a very laconical statement:'The government further states that the cooperation is intergovernmental and compatible with Sweden's military alliance freedom. ..................................................... When I read this, my first reflection is that NATO is also an intergovernmental organisation, and if the government is to become consistent in its logic, there are, as many have done, more intergovernmental cooperation to join. Sweden, together with Finland, pushed forward the common security and defence policy in the late 1990s, and we have been involved in all civilian and military operations in the EU since then. Nothing is more natural than that Sweden is among the first countries to join the permanent structured cooperation. Many statements have been made by the various parties today that this is not about an EU army and not even about a common European defence. I would like to remind you that the best before the date of insecure political positions, not least in the case of the European Union, has been rather short. Let's see what the future holds. Madam President, I would like About ten years ago, something called network-based defence was introduced into Swedish defence policy. There was never so much of that, but the billions rolled anyway for a number of years. I met a person who worked in that project just recently, and he said: The important thing was not the goal. The important thing was the journey itself. I believe that we must look at Mr Pesco and the forthcoming efforts in this area of policy with the same eyes. Yes, we are deeply integrated both with NATO and with the EU. We are partners, and we are gold-plated partners of NATO. We have a host nation's uptown deal. We are in or intend to be in the Joint Expeditionary Force. We have participated in the NATO Response Force, and we have participated in most of NATO's military crisis management operations in recent decades. We are now in Pesco. We are part of the European Defence Fund EUDF, and we will also participate in what is known as CARDS and which involves carrying out annual reviews of the development of military defence in each Member State. I am not saying that all this integration is incompatible with asserting military alliance freedom – it is very possible that it is possible – but I am concerned that the government does not understand that all the integration that we have and that we intend to do affects how the outside world views our military alliance freedom. I do not think, Madam President, that I am particularly courageous in saying that Sweden is probably already, in the eyes of Russia, a country that has chosen sides. This means that we have put ourselves in a very worrying situation in terms of security policy, I believe, where, on the one hand, we have no credibility in terms of our military alliance freedom and, on the other hand, no mutual defence obligations. This, Madam President, is what I usually call the no man's country of security policy, and I think it is a responsibility for all parties to ensure that we get out of this morass. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-576	Madam President, I would like We have heard a discussion today from the Alliance in general. Firstly, if Sweden should not take the step and join NATO, and secondly, what image the outside world has of Sweden's freedom of alliance. And what consequences does the government think this could have? When I sit and listen, I cannot help thinking that it is clear that the alliance parties are doing everything to paint a certain picture of Sweden's freedom of alliance and of Sweden's position in the world. I simply wonder whether the alliance parties, and in this case the Liberals, are thinking about what kind of signal you are sending out into the world yourself and whether you are thinking about the consequences this has for the other nations. When one listens to the alliance parties, it sounds like it would not have much significance if Sweden were to join NATO in relation to what it is today, except when it comes to protection. I therefore simply wonder whether Allan Widman has the impression that a Swedish membership of NATO would not mean a major change in Swedish foreign policy.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-580	Madam President, I would like Not this summer but last summer I was with Hans Wallmark down in southeastern Skåne. We waited for two B52s to fly in directly from the United States and simulate minute laying in the Bay of Hanö. In anticipation of this, 17 NATO nations landed in Österlen before our eyes. Madam President, I would like I mean, the writing is on the wall. It is by no means a secret that Sweden has these extremely close ties with NATO. In this House, we have made an agreement on host country aid, which provides the opportunity for planning and preparation for NATO in the event of war, conflict or crisis to come to Sweden and help us with all the means at its disposal. I believe that, with this, a great deal of what is usually part of military alliance freedom has been dismantled. The very specific question asked by Alexandra Völker is: Would this mean a major upheaval in Swedish foreign policy? I would like to say that I believe that the whole of Europe and large parts of the West have been waiting for Sweden to take this step into NATO, and that has been done for decades.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-583	Madam President, I would like As I said, the Alliance parties have been working together for a few years now clearly for a Swedish NATO membership. It's not a secret. I therefore understand that this debate is also being used to raise the issue and bring it to the fore. Nevertheless, I cannot help but be fascinated by the view that a Swedish NATO membership would not have any major consequences for Swedish foreign and security policy. I know that Allan Widman is well aware of the fact that it is much more disturbing than just Europe and the world of wealth. I find it difficult to see that the Alliance can seriously mean that a Swedish NATO membership would have so little significance for Swedish foreign policy. Is this what the Liberals think – that Swedish membership of NATO would have no major consequences for Swedish foreign policy?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-586	Madam President, I would like I feel a little unsure about what question Alexandra Völker is actually asking. My picture is that our surrounding world has been waiting for Sweden to step into NATO for a very long time. We have done everything we can to make ourselves NATO-faced. Not least the current government is pushing for the technical, tactical and organisational adjustment towards NATO. This is probably what everyone expects. Whether that would have a major impact on the foreign policy that has been conducted may not really be in my position as a poor defence policy. But I know one thing, and that is that there is no other single measure that would so quickly and so powerfully strengthen our national security as a membership of NATO.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-589	Madam President, I would like What we are discussing today is the Government's proposal for Parliament to approve Sweden's participation in permanent structured cooperation within the framework of the European Union. Cooperation is part of the follow-up to the EU's global strategy and provides a framework for the development of military capabilities, what we call Pesco today. For the Christian Democrats, this is not difficult. We are warm friends of the European Union, and we think this is a positive thing. It is intergovernmental cooperation that we support. It is good that Sweden is included early in the cooperation. There are about fifty projects going on, and it is important that Sweden get its own project as soon as possible. It is important to point out that this is not an EU army and that it does not in any way duplicate NATO cooperation. There should be no duplication of work. It is also important that it does not in any way hamper cooperation with the United Kingdom. As many here have been involved, there is also another collaboration, which is a bit of the elephant in the room. This is intergovernmental cooperation, as has been pointed out. We have a tougher security policy situation, which I think we all Members here in the Swedish Parliament are feeling, with the war that is currently going on in eastern Ukraine, what happened in 2014 when Russia illegally took Crimea and the fear that has been created in the Baltics, so close to Sweden. In this situation, Pesco cooperation is good. Today we are close partners with NATO, and that is a good thing. As I said, Sweden will become a member of Pesco, and that is a good thing. But we don't have the protection; we don't have paragraph 5. It is through such a position that we would really increase the security of Sweden. We are still living in some kind of double standards where we think we are going to get help from NATO, but we are not members. Krister Bringéus, investigator of Sweden's security cooperation – the investigation was completed a year and a half ago – has stated that the world already sees us as members of NATO in a way. He stated that a Swedish NATO membership would increase predictability. Our world around us sees us as belonging to NATO, but we do not have protection. Therefore, many countries do not understand Sweden's position, and there are many among the Swedish people who do not. The step we are now going to take is a good one; it is a step along the way. But the Christian Democrats hope that it is not too far away for Sweden to become a full member of NATO. This would really increase the security of the Swedish people – both for us and for our world around us. It would help to provide security for our neighbors too.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-596	Madam President, I would like Of course, the Moderates are behind all their reservations, but for the winning of time I only agree to our reservation 8. The budgetary framework has already been adopted, so we do not take part in the decision on the aid framework and the allocation of appropriations in paragraph 3. The New Moderates are developing the view of the unbalanced and underfunded budget in a special opinion referring to our budget exercise. Sweden should be a generous aid country, where every crown goes to the people who need it most and where the aid makes a real difference. During the last term of office, aid has dealt with a number of rapid policy changes that risk affecting both quality and predictability. There are shortcomings in the follow-up. The world is changing. The crises in the world are fewer but worse and longer. It is clear that the whole governance of aid as a whole needs to be reviewed. This applies to our governance documents, processes and regulations. The basis is clear. Sweden has long had and will continue to have one of the world's most generous aid. The willingness of the Swedish people to provide aid remains high, and the 1% target has a large amount of support. Sweden can and will do more; therefore, aid must be developed in order to be relevant, effective and useful and make a real difference. New challenges and conditions have a major impact on today's international development cooperation. Through the sustainability goals, the world agrees on what are the problems, but there are different ways to come up with the solutions. When fundamental values of democracy and transparency are challenged, we must also have a clear political idea of the role of aid. Swedish aid will help transform oppression into freedom, poverty into progress and waste of resources into sustainable development. Transparency and trade are the path to prosperity and a tool for greater understanding and tolerance. Aid should always promote democracy, human rights and sustainable development and uphold the principles of the rule of law, international law and gender equality. Several major donor countries have a clear link between their development policy and their foreign policy objectives and values. Here Sweden needs to get better. We want to see a stronger link between Swedish foreign policy, development policy and the distribution of aid and greater coherence between aid and our security policy, international action and conflict prevention. Aid policy is about the choice of routes and the prioritisation of limited resources. Given the enormous humanitarian needs, aid should be focused where it is needed most to alleviate distress and prevent death. The Moderates want to strengthen humanitarian aid in the event of crises and disasters. The Red-Green Government is now raising the budget for aid, but only a small part of this goes to humanitarian aid. That is the wrong priority when there needs to be more bet where the need is greatest. Madam President, I would like The difficult situation in the world means that, among other things, various UN organisations must be able to act quickly where they are most useful. We therefore believe that untied funds, the so-called nuclear aid, for multilateral organisations should be further increased, but we also want to evaluate how the invested aid money is used. Last week, EBA launched a report on this very subject. Nuclear aid is good, but the earmarked money, as it is already decided what to do, makes the UN agencies difficult to manage and ineffective. EBA is simply proposing to put an end to everything that is not core support. The way out of poverty is through economic growth and trade. Our aid will therefore increase the opportunities for poor people to take part in education, health care and jobs. In this way, they can benefit from and contribute to economic growth. Environmental, migration, trade and security issues are integral parts of the development agenda. The assistance will therefore also contribute to improving the environment, limiting the climate impact and sustainable use of natural resources. Sexual and reproductive health and rights, SRHR, are fundamental rights issues. There's a lot of common ground. SRHR and vaccines are effective and good aid. Both SRHR and vaccine are being challenged now and must be protected. Sweden should therefore invest more in the vaccine alliance Gavi, for example. Women's and children's rights and opportunities should be given priority and shape all development policies. Our demands here must be clear: culture, religion and tradition can never justify deviations from the principle of equality, non-discrimination and the freedom and equal value of all people. Development is ultimately driven by people's own will and ability. Our starting point is people's needs and conditions, not those of states or governments. In order to promote the rule of law, the Moderates want to increase Sweden's capacity to implement democratic aid. Swedish aid should support freedom fighters and strengthen freedom of expression because human rights and fundamental rights are a prerequisite for long-term development. We are concerned about the shrinking space for civil society. Poverty reduction through broad peace efforts is an effective aid policy. This is drawing the current government down. Sweden will continue to focus a large part of its assistance on conflict-affected countries and post-conflict countries. Peace-promoting and long-term development efforts are often required. Sweden should promote the use of civilian and military resources in coordinated operations coordinated by the UN or NATO, the EU and the AU. Madam President, I would like Effective aid cannot be based solely on goodwill but must deliver real results. Research, facts and statistics are therefore needed. The Moderates require responsible management of aid funds. That is why we have disagreed with the current government about its lax handling. The government has been notified of the KU for the management of the aid with a quick roll and threats to spend two thirds of the aid budget on refugee reception in Sweden. As late as the beginning of the week, we learned that the government was actively darkened in its campaign to the UN Security Council, which had already been severely criticised for using aid money for campaigning. This is now also KU-notified and will be reviewed. There's obviously more. The current government has broken in many ways. There's a lot to explain. That is why it is remarkable that the Secretary of State is not in place for today's debate. According to the calendar, the reason is a foreign journey. In fact, it is a poor priority of the Minister to miss the debate on his last autumn change budget. We place high demands on responsibility for handling in Sweden. Responsibility for results also means high demands on our partners in terms of economic governance, accounting and reporting, the fight against corruption and to act quickly against maladministration. If the requirements are not met, there will be consequences, for example through halted payments and reviews. Aid can and should be used for more and more actions and actions. Just as we have a broad concept of security, we need a broad concept of aid. It is about innovation and innovation. Sweden should therefore work towards an updated regulatory framework that better reflects today's needs, and focus should be on what happens beyond aid.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-613	Madam President, I would like Contributing to development and poverty reduction and promoting human rights are deeply rooted in Sweden. It's something we should be proud of. Every year, a large amount of money is spent on the aid budget, and this year the government's aid framework is close to 43 billion. However, we think that the efforts for the most vulnerable where they would make the most difference are too weak. Although media coverage is not as intense in relation to the refugee crisis as in 2015, there are still several crises around the world. Major violations and increased violence in the state of Rakhine, Burma, have forced 620,000 Rohingyers to flee to Bangladesh since August 2017. They live there in miserable conditions and are still lacking sufficient funds. In Yemen, 2 million people have fled from bomb attacks and air strikes. This is one of the world's largest, most acute crises and perhaps its most forgotten crisis. Not long ago, I myself went through the World Food Programme's various efforts in the country. While more than 17 million people are in need of food assistance, the World Food Programme alone can provide assistance to some 7 million people. In such a scenario, I understand why people are so terribly desperate that they are fleeing to war Somalia. In Syria, over half of the population, 12 million people, have been forced to flee. Half a million people have been killed, and hundreds of thousands of people have been kidnapped, tortured, exploited or injured as a result of the problems that exist in the country. Although it has calmed down in several parts of the country, most of it is in ruins, and people are in great need of humanitarian aid. In addition, there is a major famine and food crisis in several parts of Africa. 20 million people in Nigeria, South Sudan and Somalia urgently need humanitarian aid. South Sudan, one of the world's most poor countries, is now being forced to endure Africa's greatest refugee crisis. Madam President, I would like It is because of the terrible facts that I have just lined up that the Swedish Democrats, in addition to general aid, want to invest another SEK 10 billion of the aid budget on refugee aid in the neighbourhood of various crises. This could, for example, cover about 300 000 tents, 1.3 million winter packages including a stove for winter and 2.7 million emergency packages for families through UNHCR. We could also contribute about 600 000 packages of winter clothes for children, 250 000 school packages with materials for 12 million children, 600 000 welcome-to-world packages, 1.2 million hunger disaster packages, 800 000 escape packages for children, 500 000 liquid replacement packages and as many nut cream packages for malnourished through UNICEF. In addition to this, we want to invest 3.5 billion in long-term refugee assistance on, among other things, infrastructure and education for adults. For thousands of years, minorities in Iraq have inhabited the plain of Nineves in the ancient Assyrian Empire. In recent years, the number of residents in the area has fallen drastically as a result of the deteriorating security situation in Iraq and Kurdistan. When the terrorist organisation Islamic State took control of the area, the situation worsened further. The Islamic State expelled and/ or murdered a large number of people, took over their assets and destroyed their houses, churches and infrastructure. Thousands of years old and priceless cultural treasures were destroyed. Many of the inhabitants of the area have long wanted more self-government, as history has clearly shown how it can happen when they do not have self-determination. As a result, the Iraqi government created a self-governing Assyrian province on the plain of Nineves on 21 January 2014. The terrorist organisation Islamic State has now finally been expelled from the area, but most of it is put in ruins. Nevertheless, many people want to move back to their homes and try to rebuild their lives, which is quite understandable. But the fact remains: houses, hospitals, schools, roads, electricity and most of the infrastructure need to be rebuilt. In addition, they fight Syrians, Assyrians, Chaldeans and others who live in the area to try to maintain their identity. Most still speak Aramaic, the language spoken in the ancient Assyrian Empire. However, as the Christian group becomes smaller, there is also a risk that its language, culture and identity will be threatened. The government should support minorities living in the Nineves plain, in terms of maintaining their identity, and contribute to the reconstruction of the terrible ravages of Islamists. We therefore propose that efforts be made in the field of aid to rebuild areas destroyed in war and where people begin to want to move back. The Nineves plain is a clear example of such an area. Madam President, I would like The government prioritises, not surprisingly, differently in its aid budget. One of the priorities is a strategy up to 2019 for Palestine. It is about SEK 1.5 billion, where parts go to the Palestinian Authority, which encourages and rewards terrorism and spreads anti-Semitism. Sida also makes payments that have at least historically gone to very questionable groups in Syria and Gaza – to name a few examples. I am ashamed of this and cannot understand that the government is doing no more to ensure that important support does not go to the wrong recipient. In addition, the Government makes estimates of 2.7 billion of the aid budget for reception of refugees in Sweden. Fortunately, the estimates in the aid budget have now been reduced, which is a direct consequence of a reduction in asylum reception in Sweden. This is something the Swedish Democrats have long advocated. We are therefore now seeing how more resources can be used for the most vulnerable rather than for relatively prosperous migrants. The only cost of reception for refugees that the aid should pay is resettlement via the UNHCR. With less counting, we can strengthen the actual aid budget by 250 million more than the government, in addition to other effective measures. The fact that the government grants amnesty to unaccompanied minors from Afghanistan – some may be completely lacking asylum reasons – while efforts on refugees internationally are too weak in relation to the size of the aid budget is an extremely remarkable priority. This is one of the reasons why I am proud to support the reservations of the Swedish Democrats 9 and 14. With the aid budget of the Swedish Democrats, we can actually make a real difference.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-632	Madam President, I would like The world's getting better. Today, when we celebrate Finland's 100 years of independence from Russia, we see a success for democracy in our immediate environment. We see and know what it means to our neighbours and to us. It is a picture to take forward when we support our European neighbours in the Eastern Partnership. It's about their being free from Russia, free and independent. Madam President, I would like The world is getting better, but our worldview is lagging behind. Hans Rosling – peace over his memory – made it clear to us that our prejudices deceive us to see what was and not what is. Maternal mortality has declined. Child mortality is decreasing. More children are vaccinated. More people have access to clean water. Extreme poverty has been halved since 1990, in the wake of the Millennium Development Goals. Our generation has the opportunity to eradicate extreme poverty by 2030. Our generation has the opportunity to give all girls education and the opportunity to complete comprehensive school. Our generation can give girls the right to own, inherit and have access to land and the right to support themselves and to start businesses. Our generation can meet the climate challenges with climate-smart economic instruments and solutions and with new technologies and adaptations. Madam President, I would like We have a common agenda. We have agreed globally on Agenda 2030 and the Paris Agenda. They are, of course, also the leaders of Swedish aid, as we see it. The Center Party wants to see aid as a resource among others to mobilise entire communities for results and not just talk. We stand up to assume our responsibilities, but we demand from other actors that they do the same, exactly according to Agenda 2030. That's the new one. More than 70 per cent of the people living in great poverty live in the world's poorest countries, but in populous middle income countries such as India, China and Indonesia. In order to achieve the 2030 targets, all countries really need to shoulder their responsibilities for a policy that eradicates extreme poverty. Madam President, I would like Sweden's aid should focus on the poorest countries, not everything and everyone. It should focus on counteracting recurring conflicts, which we have become too used to. It will focus on human rights, democracy, a fair justice system, education, gender equality, trade-related aid, local ownership and the climate. It is not enough, Madam President, that the budget that we are dealing with – and I mean not just our own part of it, as we are dealing with today, but the whole – speaks 200 times about Agenda 2030. It takes other measures for things to happen. We see people's freedom being challenged. For the eleventh year in a row, global freedom has increased, according to Freedom House. We see how human rights are threatened. Women's rights to their bodies and elections are attacked by frightened men in the White House and Warsaw and in other countries. We see how LGBT people are threatened and murdered. I'm about to meet some people who are exposed to that kind of threat. We see how civil society's space is shrinking, as are freedom of expression and freedom of the press. The dissidents are pointed out and imprisoned without legal certainty in too many countries. There are forces that do not see that human rights are universal, forces that build walls and systems to stop human rights at their borders. But we and our aid must not be hindered. We must be smarter and find ways to support and promote those who stand up to break freedom. Our aid will make a difference. It should be strategic, focused and value-based. We must be prepared to make it clear whether things go wrong in countries where we operate, as happened, for example – and here I would like to commend the government – in relation to Cambodia. When you knock down the opposition and imprison oppositionists, it is right to state clearly that the democratic aid that has gone through the government will then be withdrawn. That is what we must do in other countries too. Madam President, I would like The Center Party stands up for 1 percent of GDP to go to aid in order to reach the 2030 targets. We are prepared to allocate additional funds to cope with the climate. But, of course, we believe that our entire aid should be used for climate adaptation and climate action. If we do not use our aid in this way, we risk throwing the other aid into the sea, so that the measures we take are wasted as a result of climate change. It is therefore a question of prevention here too – preventing people being forced to flee, preventing new conflicts. We want development aid that will be inclusive and socially, economically and ecologically sustainable. Madam President, I would like It would have been exciting to have a discussion about aid and Agenda 2030 with the government. Unfortunately, I have noticed that Minister for Development and Climate Action Isabella Lövin is on a trip abroad. I tried, Madam President, to see what kind of travel was prioritised prior to participation in the discussion of the committee report, but that was not demonstrated by the website. Such transparency would have been attractive, but it was lacking. However, we may be told in this debate by other representatives of the government parties what prompted that priority. Even when we discussed international cooperation, the government was missing. The two budget debates of the Committee on Foreign Affairs are therefore without the government present, and I find this remarkable, Madam President. I support the Center Party's reservation No 10 under paragraph 5. As far as the appropriations are concerned, we have abstained in committee. I do not see that there would be a motion there, so it will not be the subject of a position, Madam President.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-643	Madam President, I would like Listeners, listeners, Members! The Left Party wants to see a just and equal world where all people have the same opportunities and the same freedom to live the life they want. Development policy is an important means of achieving this society, and aid is part of this. Today, our world is marked by deep injustices. The gaps are great between poor and rich countries, between poor and rich people and between women and men. The world's eight richest people own as much as the poorest half of the world's population. Today, over 650 million people lack access to clean water. Every 19 seconds a woman dies as a result of complications during pregnancy. Of these deaths, 99% occur in poor countries. The world could look different. There are enough resources to eradicate poverty and give people a dignified life. The Left Party believes that development and the fight against poverty require action in a number of areas: debt write-offs, a climate policy in which the rich countries and multinationals assume their responsibilities, a strengthened regulatory framework for arms trade, clearer global rules for foreign investment, fair trade rules and an effective aid policy that complies with the principles of aid. Basically, we believe that a new economic world order is needed, with a clear redistribution of power and resources from rich countries and rich people to poor countries and poor people. Global aid totals about 125 billion dollars a year, but for every crown of aid going from the rich world to the poor, more than 9 crowns go in the opposite direction in the form of tax and capital flight. That is why it is particularly important to safeguard aid and not to allow small amounts of aid to go to things that should be financed otherwise or that already have sufficient funding. Madam President, I would like We in the Left Party are proud to have been involved in negotiating the largest Swedish aid budget ever, a budget that includes important efforts to strengthen peace building work, gender equality, SRHR, human rights, further expansion of renewable energy and a better environment. At the same time, we see that much needs to be done to develop and strengthen Swedish aid. In 2016, the government launched a new policy for global development, PGU. It linked the PGU to Agenda 2030 and further highlighted the need for coherence in development policy. However, 14 years after the PGU was first adopted, it is clear that Swedish development policy is still not coherent. The major conflicts of objectives and obstacles to a strong development policy remain. There are arms exports, the EU's agricultural policy and tax evasion as some of the clearest examples. Swedish development policy should be based on two perspectives: poor people's perspective on development and a rights perspective. To achieve success in these areas, a clear gender perspective is needed, something the Left Party has been demanding for a long time. It is therefore welcome that the government has introduced gender equality as one of three thematic perspectives in the policy framework. The gender perspective must also be put into practice throughout Swedish development policy. Madam President, I would like Although there is broad agreement that gender issues are central both to development in general and in Swedish development cooperation, clear figures are missing on how much of Swedish aid goes to girls and women respectively boys and men. The Left Party believes that Sweden in a world where women are systematically discriminated against and ignored should have the goal of dedicating half of the aid or more to girls and women. To be able to control one's own body and express one's own sexuality is a fundamental human right, but it is a right that is violated and violated in many countries that Sweden conducts development cooperation with. Lack of access to contraception and sex education, lack of maternal care and strong restrictions on abortion law are key obstacles to development and poverty reduction. Too many donors lack the will or courage to engage in these controversial issues. At the same time, we see how the forces that oppose the right to abortion are active in many poor countries and are moving forward their positions. A clear example is President Trumps's decision to reintroduce Mexico City Policy, which prevents the United States from financing organizations working for the right to abortion. RFSU has reviewed in several reports how much of the Swedish aid goes to SRHR. In spring 2016, they presented their third report, which shows that the support during the years 2006–2010 represented just over 6 per cent of the Swedish development aid budget. The current government itself has stated that 8 per cent of the Swedish development aid budget for 2018 now goes to SRHR. The SRHR must be given higher priority in our development cooperation. For this reason, for several years, the Left Party has been pushing for at least 10% of the aid budget to be earmarked for the SRHR. Madam President, I would like A large part of the Sahrawi population has been living for decades in very scarce conditions in refugee camps in Algeria. The situation in the camps is becoming increasingly difficult, with a great lack of water and a nutritional diet, due to a reduction in aid from several donors around the world. Assistance to the Sahrawi refugee camps must also be differentiated. The nutritional situation is poor according to international standards. Sida's assistance remains at about the same level, but a large part is channelled through strategic partners, including several UN agencies. It is a decision that can be called into question because there have been no signs in the camps that the UN has increased its involvement. The distribution of the important mackerel previously made by the Swedish organisation Practical Solidarity has completely ceased. It is good that the government takes the situation seriously, and I therefore hope that action will be taken. Madam President, I would like This year, 2017, more than 65 million people are on the run around the world, according to the United Nations Refugee Organization (UNHCR). The UN estimates that over 128 million people are in need of humanitarian aid, which is the highest figure ever. Development policy has an important role to play in combating the causes of migration, such as poverty, persecution, war, oppression and environmental degradation. But development policy and aid efforts must never be used to prevent people from fleeing or to get to Europe. On 7 June 2016, the European Commission presented its Communication New Migration Partnership Framework. It is a clear signal of the shift in the EU's development policy that was anticipated in the summer and autumn of 2015, towards the use of aid to stop migration. Some of the more attentive examples of how the EU has used aid to stop migration are found in Turkey, Afghanistan and Libya. When the EU concluded agreements with Turkey in spring 2016 to stop people from going to the continent, it was with financial promises to a large extent funded through aid. When Afghanistan signed a readmission agreement with the EU in autumn 2016, it was a threat that the EU would withdraw aid from the country. In the summer of 2017, the EU increased support to the Libyan Coast Guard by EUR 46 million. It is money that was passed on from one of the EU's aid funds. Amnesty, Human Rights Watch and the UN have been reporting for some time about violations and serious abuses by militias in Libya and the Libyan Coast Guard. Recently, further criticism of the EU's cooperation with Libya came from UN Human Rights Commissioner Zeid Zeid al-al-Hussein. He believes that the EU's work to stop people fleeing is inhumane. Among other things, he said that the suffering that migrants held in Libya are being forced to endure is a scandal for the conscience of mankind. The EU has a clear responsibility for what is now happening in Libya. The use of aid to contribute to development and help the most vulnerable to support the abuse of people on the run is totally unacceptable. This must be stopped. I am, of course, in favour of all of the Left Party's motions, but I am in favour of accepting Amendment No 15.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-662	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by supporting all of the Liberal reservations, but I would like to call for the approval of only reservation 1 for time – democracy should be a top objective of Swedish development policy. At a time when country after country is cutting back on its aid, it is important to safeguard solidarity, nurture values and safeguard the 1% target. When one of the world's largest donors, the United States, cuts back support for women's sexual and reproductive rights, when government after government in Europe reduces its support for people in closed dictatorships, when during the greatest crisis for refugees less than 35 percent of their needs are covered, solidarity is tested in such a time. One of the proposals that we Liberals are pursuing in the budget is to add an additional SEK 350 million to the United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR). But politics is not just to want. It is also a question of choosing and prioritising joint and value-driven aid. When former U.S. President Barack Obama gave one of his last speeches, he quoted philosopher John Rawls. If you did not know which sex, which class or which part of the world you would be born in historically, you would certainly choose the 2010s. It may be hard to believe when we watch the news in the evenings, but the world has never been as good as it is today – and much will get even better. We are currently seeing the greatest poverty reduction in the world and history. From 1990 to today, the proportion of extremely poor people in the world fell from 37% to 9.6%. Every day for about 25 years 138 000 people were removed from poverty. Not least in Asia, poverty is decreasing at rocket speed. The proportion of people out of poverty there is as much as 77 per minute. By 2030, the number of people living in poverty is expected to decrease by another 200 million. The proportion of people living below the poverty line in Africa is expected to fall from 34% to 23% by 2030. We have also seen in recent years that every day 285 000 more people have access to safe water, and maternal mortality has also been halved since 1990. Looking back on the year 2017, we can add that Islamic terrorism in Syria and Iraq has been successfully combated by Kurdish peshmerga together with Western allies. We may be able to see 2018 as the year when Daish/ IS was completely crushed. Nor should we forget that 2017 has been the year when the Colombian government made peace with Farcgerillan. Several countries with dictatorship history are planning elections. The other week Robert Mugabe left power after 37 years as a dictator in Zimbabwe, although his successor Emmerson Mnangagwa unfortunately seems to follow in his footsteps with a government consisting of Mugabe's gangs and old military forces but unfortunately no opposition. Democracy is also backing up, for the eleventh year in a row – 83% of the population in North Africa and the Middle East live in non-free countries, repression in Turkey and Venezuela is exploding and we see total bans on abortion in seven Latin American countries and huge setbacks to LGBT people's rights in countries like Egypt. Once the former folk party leader Per Ahlmark wrote the book It's Democracy, Fool! That is the case – without democracy no freedom, without democrats no democracy and without democracy it is impossible to create sustainable societies with poverty reduction that reaches everyone. We Liberals do not think that it is the UN's development objectives that should guide Swedish aid. It is democracy that should be the overall objective. Free elections are the only guarantor of democracy and are also counted as a human right under Article 21 of the UN Universal Declaration. In Swedish democracy assistance, it should therefore be central to guarantee and preserve free elections and also to critically review free elections. The state of law is the guarantor that citizens themselves will be able to claim responsibility from the state. As long as democracy is not put first, the Liberals will not support a future new policy for global development. We are also proposing a boost to democracy in aid, with an additional 221 million in our draft budget. It is a support that should focus on civil and political rights, such as freedom of organisation, freedom of expression and the right to participate in free elections. It should be a support that can be directed to democratic organisations, civil society associations and opposition parties, but also to individuals, such as democracy activists, women's rights lawyers, LGBTQ fighters and independent journalists. It should also be an aid that can be targeted at countries that are authoritarian but not traditionally poor in terms of the economy. Here I am thinking of countries such as Russia, Singapore and others. We Liberals believe in the principle of aid. Countries implementing reforms will be rewarded. On the contrary, countries that are moving away from democratisation must receive less aid and support must be phased out. One of the clearest examples today of unconditional Swedish aid is the support for the Palestinian Authority. There have not been elections in Palestine for over a decade. Corruption is widespread, homosexual oppression, critical voices are silenced and anti-Semitic violence propaganda flows without responsible politicians reacting. Women's situation is becoming increasingly difficult. The long-term support for such societies should instead be channelled through international organisations, the international community, civil society or democratic opposition. We cannot, as we did in the second half of the 20th century, pay aid to governments that are neither willing nor able to change. In addition to supporting the focus on democracy, we Liberals in our draft budget want to increase support for education, especially for girls. In China, it is usually said that if you educate a man, you educate an individual, but if you educate a woman, you educate a whole family. We in this House today can belong to the generation that eradicates illiteracy in our lifetime. Today, 775 million adults and 120 million young people worldwide lack basic literacy. At the same time, some 58 million children do not attend school, often because the family cannot afford to pay school fees. UNICEF estimates that in many poor countries about one student out of every four even before they finish primary school. We also see in these extremely difficult times for refugees that there is a lack of funds for schooling for many of the children growing up in refugee camps. In many places, the right to education is denied to knowledge-thirsty girls, even though it is a human, not a male, right. It is devastating to prevent girls from training because child marriages and teenage pregnancies are irreversible life events. They also affect the next generation. Today, less than 2% of aid in the world goes to teenage girls. When girls in Pakistan were not allowed to go to school, I realized that education is power for women and that is why the terrorists are afraid of education. The words come from Malala Yousafzai. Five years ago, the Taliban shot her in the head. In 2014, she received the Nobel Peace Prize. On August 17, this year, she began studying at one of the world's best universities in Oxford, Britain. Madam President, I would like For me, this was a delightful revenge against the Islamists but also a victory that inspires girls around the world and a proof that we must all continue to have faith in the future.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-687	Madam President, I would like We all have a moral responsibility to work to eradicate poverty and oppression in the world. The idea that all people, wherever they live, have the same value and that we all have a responsibility for each other is a strong motivation for the solidarity that is fundamental to Christian-Democratic ideology. That solidarity does not stop at Sweden's border. The overall objectives of Sweden's development cooperation must be to assert human dignity, raise the living standards of the poorest people and promote human rights and democracy. Madam President, I would like Next year, the aid budget will be the largest ever. The Swedish economy is growing rapidly as a result of the international boom, and as a consequence the aid budget is also significantly strengthened. It gives us room to help more people in a world with enormous needs but also space to sharpen Swedish aid. The scope for reform gives room for innovation without risking the commitments that Sweden has already made. We Christian Democrats believe that the quality of aid must be increased and that we must dare to break habitable patterns. We therefore propose that a special assignment be given to Sida and to the Expert Group on Aid Analysis to develop how quality work in agencies and organisations can be strengthened in connection with an increase in the aid framework. Of course, it cannot continue as before 2018. For example, that the government does not do more to strengthen the ability of Swedish civil society organisations to administer increased support but instead chooses to place the increase on the UN alone is not reasonable. In times of higher and growing aid, it is also important that Sweden does not constantly expand the commitments thematically but identifies those areas where Sweden has clear added value and ability to act complementaryly in relation to other donors. The direction must be guided by the world's needs. In this debate, the Christian Democrats want to highlight three areas of particular concern. Firstly, Madam President, Swedish aid efforts should clearly focus on the world's poorest. It is about access to health care, clean water and schooling. The death of 7,000 children every day who have not even been allowed to celebrate the fact that they have lived for a month should be the greatest moral dilemma of our time. Investing in SRHR and the availability of vaccines are crucial. Improved maternal health requires long-term work. Fast and concrete solutions such as more educated midwives are important and help some of the problems, but real change in women's and girls' situation requires changes in structures and values in many cases. Many severe injuries and deaths associated with childbirth occur because the mother was too young to cope with pregnancy and childbirth. The practice of young girls being married away must be actively countered on a cultural and valuation level in order to reduce maternal mortality. Madam President, I would like It is not reasonable for children today to have to lose their lives in relatively simple diseases such as diarrhoea and pneumonia. Precisely vaccination programmes have proved to be a very effective aid, as a relatively cheap point effort literally saves lives. Still 780 million people lack access to clean water in our world. It has devastating consequences for human health, and children are particularly severely affected. One of the diseases spread in contaminated water is cholera, which kills at least 100,000 lives each year. In war-torn Yemen, we now see the largest cholera outbreak in modern times with 800 000 cases, and the number is increasing. In Bangladesh's refugee camps, the disease is currently spreading at a raging rate. This is a disease that should not exist in our world in 2017. Secondly, the current world situation makes the Christian Democrats want to set aside a significant part of the Swedish aid budget for help for people on the run. The United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR) is the key player in helping refugees. That should also be the case. However, a gigantic organization has little room for flexibility, and efforts may be too late. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that it is also, as in Denmark and Norway, time to build their own structure to channel relief efforts to refugees. The fact that Sweden receives fewer people on the run does not mean that the needs of the world have decreased. On the contrary, the number of refugees in the world is record high. Sweden must contribute in new ways to meet these people's needs. Thirdly, Madam President, Sweden will be a non-compromising voice for peace, freedom and human rights in the world. Strengthening democracy and increasing respect for human rights and freedoms should be central objectives for Swedish aid. Sweden will support democracy fighters and promote strengthened freedom of expression and thought in countries where it is restricted. Democracy and freedom are the best guarantee of peace and security. Only on the basis of sustainable and stable democracy can social and economic development take a sustainable hold in societies. Several civil society organisations are working in particular to support opposition groups and human rights defenders in repressive states around our world. This work is extremely important for those individuals who daily risk their own and the family's safety in order to stand up for the rights and freedoms that we all own. Swedish organisations' efforts in support of democracy fighters and human rights defenders around the world must be further prioritised and strengthened. Madam President, I would like In times when millions of people are fleeing corrupt and dictatorial regimes, we must begin to wonder what the governments of these countries are obliged to do to assist their own people. Democracy fighters and humanitarian organisations, especially in dictatorships, are in great need of external aid, and it is essential that funds are channelled primarily through them and not through corrupt regimes. Sweden should develop strategies to put pressure on beneficiary countries to take responsibility for their citizens and live up to ratified conventions. We see, for example, how Palestine continues to develop in the wrong direction. Incitement to violence, indoctrination and hate speech continue to be commonplace in the region. It is urgent to support the Palestinian civilian population, but the Christian Democrats believe that the policy towards and assistance to the Palestinian Authority must be re-established and that no bilateral assistance should be given to the Palestinian Authority as long as action is taken on terrorist attacks and incitement to violence against Israel. When Sweden concludes agreements with regimes such as Iran and Cuba, it is highly unclear what the requirements are when these countries are opened up to the outside world. In conclusion, Madam President, it sounds all too often in the debate that Sweden is the hub around which the world is spinning. We are not, but we will continue to contribute to the best of our ability. To do this, our development policy needs to be tightened up. It is not good enough to get stuck in old tracks when there is a world with great needs and taxpayers here in Sweden that deserves their crowns going to efforts that make a difference, in fact. The Christian Democrats, of course, support all the reservations but, for reasons of time, choose to call for the approval of reservation 13, which sets out the priorities we believe would have helped to make a difference.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-708	Madam President, I would like If, Gud forbid, there was war in Europe today and we were set to make peace, would we have made a Versailles agreement or a Marshall plan? Today, increasingly harsh rhetoric characterises international politics, nationalism spreads, and short-term political or economic gains stand in the way of long-term visions. Then Swedish politics should be courageous and forward-looking, and our development policy should also be. Last spring, I was in Lebanon. Among other things, we visited a tent camp where Syrian refugees lived in a dump. What separated the children's homes from the dump was a gravel embankment. The kids ran and played at that dump. Dumpsters drove between the tents to drop off the trash. At the moment, the climate in Lebanon is intensifying, and the opportunity for the Lebanese people to host a large number of Syrian refugees is beginning to impoverish. We know that the development of society is at its weakest in conflict countries and countries with a lack of respect for human rights. This makes it all the more important to work even harder in those countries where the results are lacking. More effort needs to be put on support for failing and conflict-affected states, where an increasing proportion of the world's extremely poor are living today. That is why I am particularly pleased with the Syria strategy decided by the government, which has now been in operation for two years. The aim of the strategy is to contribute to strengthening the resilience and resilience and adaptability of the Syrian population and vulnerable groups in Syria's neighbouring countries, which are severely affected by the conflict. Action under the Strategy is expected to contribute to safeguarding human security and freedom from violence. The strategy will also contribute to strengthening democracy and gender equality and to enhancing respect for human rights in Syria and for refugees from Syria in neighbouring countries. The strategy is valid until 2020 and comprises a total of SEK 1.7 billion. When we break down this, it is about dignity for children in Lebanon, livelihoods for adults, increased access to basic services in society, work against gender-based violence, strengthening democracy and human rights and strengthening civil society. The efforts are carried out together with civil society, various UN agencies and other development actors, such as the World Bank. Today 65 million people are on the run and 135 million people in need of humanitarian aid. Sweden is a leading humanitarian player and will continue to be so in 2018. Sweden's humanitarian support is celebrated by both UNHCR and Ocha. Swedish humanitarian funds will continue to be used in crisis situations where the needs are greatest. Several of the major humanitarian crises in 2017, such as Yemen, South Sudan, North-East Nigeria, Syria and Somalia, are expected to continue in 2018. Sweden will continue to have a leading role in terms of more local ownership, more innovative ways of working and strengthened collaboration between humanitarian aid and long-term development cooperation. The Syria Strategy is a good example of this approach. In the light of the drought and famine in the Horn of Africa, the Government intends to strengthen its engagement in the region with new strategies for Sudan and Somalia and by increasing support to counter humanitarian crises, including in Ethiopia and South Sudan. The Government intends to continue to develop its commitment to political dialogue and peace processes with a particular focus on the prevention of armed conflict, as well as women's and young people's participation and influence in peace processes. For many years, Sweden has been one of the most humane countries in terms of our development cooperation with poorer countries and 1% of GDP in aid. This has been true of both social democraticly led and moderate-led governments. Unfortunately, we now see that the Moderates have no ambition to meet the 1% target until 2022. This is not, as formulated in the 2015 Alliance Budget Movement, a goal for the current term of office. Now the target is long shot at the future. The Social Democrats and the Green Party propose in the 2018 budget that the aid framework be raised to 49 billion. For 2018, 500 million will be added, thereby achieving the target of 1 percent of bni according to the new calculation. Overall, the aid framework increases by 2.9 billion compared to 2017. The Moderates, for their part, want to reduce aid by 3.4 billion compared to the Government's proposal. Lifting people out of poverty and oppression is about so much more than putting up tents and handing out food packages. It's about building faith in the future and conditions for people to live, not just survive. The children in Lebanon deserve it. Through the combination of humanitarian aid and long-term development cooperation, Sweden, together with partner countries, civil society organisations and individual human rights activists, can contribute to this. Before I finish, I would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues in the committee for a good debate so far and a good preparation of the matter. I would also like to thank the Centre Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats, who stand up for the 1% target for Swedish aid. With this, Madam President, I support the proposal in the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report 2.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-725	Madam President, I would like There is a particularly topical issue of aid that we will certainly be discussing in this House later on, and it is an agreement between the European Union and the Socialist dictatorship of Cuba. As a Liberal, I am extremely concerned about this agreement on very many points and, of course, hope that Sweden will be a courageous country that says no to this agreement. That is because it rhymes very badly both with the European Union's ideals of democracy, transparency and human rights and with the development policy that I believe many of us want to endorse. Why should Sweden say no to this EU-Cuba agreement? First of all, the Cuban democracy movement has not been allowed to make any comments at all. The whole process has been completely closed. No Cuban independent journalists have been given access to the document in any way either. Nor does the agreement say anything about change when it comes to human rights and democracy. The Cuban government can thus continue with its dictatorship – business as usual – without any counter-performance and demands. We have already seen for many years that the socialist dictatorship has shown that there is no interest in changing that way. The wording of this agreement is also much weaker when it comes to human rights than it has been in corresponding agreements with other countries in Central America. I would therefore like to know a little bit what Maria Willner, the Socialist Group and the Red-Green Government view this agreement. It is an issue that will come up soon, and then you will have to have the support of this House on how to proceed.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-730	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Birgitta Ohlsson. We are following this agreement closely. An agreement with Cuba on development cooperation must, of course, aim to strengthen the conditions for democratic development. When we visit Cuba in Sweden in terms of different relationships that we have with the country, we are very careful to meet civil society, and we try in different ways to support the actors that still exist. Of course, we will also be monitoring this in the European cooperation that will lead to an agreement. We hope that this agreement will lead to positive developments for Cuba in the long term.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-732	Madam President, I would like However, in view of the description that I have now given to the agreement, I think it might be appropriate for me to have a slightly stronger opinion than to follow this agreement. However, it is quite well known that this is a very bleak agreement for all those who believe in transparency, democracy and freedom. If the EU concludes this agreement with Cuba, the way is open to similar agreements with rogue states such as Vietnam, Ethiopia and others. This opens up a path in which the commercial, mammon, is allowed to govern, but where human rights mean nothing at all. There are some EU countries that really have a great interest in opening up to commercial activities, but they do not want to impose any counter-requirements. I would therefore like a much stronger rejection of the Social Democrats on this issue. We can also see that since 2014, when the US, the EU and some Member States began a new relationship with Cuba, repression has worsened considerably on many points. And the economic reforms have stopped completely in the country. Some said it would be a Cuban perestroika, glasnost and all that was expected. But it has become zero out of all transparency. Then it is incredibly important that Sweden, as a decent democratic nation, actually puts its feet down. In October, the EU presented an annual report on human rights and democracy in the world. Cuba was then described as follows: Cuba is a one-party democracy. This alone shows how highly inappropriate it is for some EU countries to push for a socialist dictatorship. I think that we should do things in a completely different way and freeze the relationship and support the opposition. I would therefore like to have a little more clarity on this. This issue will very soon be a matter for this House and for the parties here. Then it is important that the great government-supporting party actually has a clearer view of saying no.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-738	Madam President, I would like We will have reason to return to Cuba. As Mrs Ohlsson referred to, this is an issue that is topical. Swedish development cooperation aims to support the ongoing modernisation of the country and protect human rights. That's our basic view. We also believe that it will continue to be important to pursue this line in Europe in order to achieve good relations between the EU and Cuba. But, as I said, we have reason to come back to the issue.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-740	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by congratulating Maria Andersson Willner and the Government on their ability to act when it comes to withdrawing aid to the regime in Cambodia. We are several Members sitting in this Chamber today who recently visited Cambodia and were horrified at the situation and how the government tightens the thumb screws for opposition and civil society organisations and their ability to operate. On the other hand, I do not feel that there is consistency when it comes to being as effective as other regimes that also treat their own citizens in a totally reprehensible way. In my speech, I talked about being able to make demands on countries for which we are an active donor. It is not a simple matter, and I have some understanding that there are different balances to be made. Nevertheless, I would like to ask Maria Willner for some clarity about the balance between the various cooperation agreements and how this can be used to press for regimes but also to open up so that human rights defenders and others can become part of a process. I am thinking, for example, of the situation in Iran and Cuba, which has been mentioned here. We have concluded agreements with these countries. How does Maria Andersson Willner think that we have succeeded in pushing these rogue nations to take steps towards greater respect for human rights and freedoms by having cooperation agreements with these countries?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-745	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sofia Damm, for the question. I believe that we always need to safeguard constructive dialogue. Regardless of the countries involved, it is always better to talk to each other than not to talk to each other. As regards how well we have succeeded in Iran and Cuba, it is an ongoing work. There are many questions about developments in Iran, and we shall have a very honest and straightforward communication with Iran about the challenges that we see. But, as I said, I always believe that cooperation, dialogue and constructive dialogue in which we can express our views and concern for development are preferable.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-746	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Andersson Willner, for your answer. I would really like to encourage the government to take action against Cambodia and to get it infected with relations with other regimes that behave irretrievably towards its own population. I shall mention again the example of Cuba. The official picture is that the country is opening up to the outside world and that the regime is receptive to change. Iran, too, is an example of this. That's how the discussion goes. But I don't see any such signs. We are now in the process of approving this agreement, which Birgitta Ohlsson also mentioned. If such an agreement is to be signed, I think it is very important to know that human rights defenders have been part of the process and that the situation for people is improving. That is what Swedish foreign policy is and should remain so. I wanted to conclude with an invitation to Maria Andersson Willner.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-749	Madam President, I would like I fully share Sofia Damm's view on this issue. It is important that we are clear and consistent. I'll take that call with me and that commendation.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-750	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by emphasising that I appreciate the reasoning tone of Maria Andersson Willner, and indeed we all have in this debate. Nevertheless, it is one of the advantages of working in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, that we usually represent some kind of consensus and have a Swedish line. The enemy isn't always in the room. However, this is a budget debate. The current government is raising aid but prioritising errors. The increase in humanitarian aid and in nuclear aid to our multilateral partners is not very great. About 9% of the aid budget goes to climate, a funding that was previously additional. The appropriation for what is known as ‘sustainable peace' is being cut, although much is said about peace and peace-building. This strategy was previously called a global effort for human security, but it changed its name when the government decided this summer on a new strategy. These are not real priorities at the moment, where we need to invest more in humanitarian aid in order to save lives and alleviate distress. It would be enlightening, Madam President, to hear from the Social Democrats how one has reasoned when choosing to cut back on peace – not raise – and what is perhaps most of crisis management, which is so incredibly important right now.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-753	Madam President, I would like Thank you for highlighting these issues, Sofia! We would like to be able to raise in all parts. With regard to the sustainable peace strategy, there are efforts in other areas as well, but I can share the view that this strategy is extremely important for us to create the conditions for development around the world. At the same time, we have a bigger budget than the Moderates have. This means other conditions for allocating resources where they are needed. It is not the case that we are reducing the aid budget, but rather that Sofia Arkelsten represents a party which does not stand by the 1% target and which, compared to the Government's proposal, lacks more than 3 billion. This gives less opportunity to make a broad contribution to development. We have heard repeatedly in the debate here today that we are living in a world of enormous needs. We need to focus on the poorest and the most vulnerable, and we should not underscore the need for resources if we are to be able to do that work.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-756	Madam President, I would like It is true that we are lower in the Moderate Draft Budget. We have set a stairway to reach the 1% target. It plays with the stairway we have set for us to reach the 2% target, to achieve NATO standards also in terms of the defence budget. It's fast in hockey, and it's fast when the budget process is going to take place during an election year. It is not that you have always achieved 1% of BNI through the new way of counting; you have previously presented a 0.99% budget. I just want to be clear about that, as some kind of consumer information. Nevertheless, I think we need to talk a little more about the economy. The aid budget is part of the state budget. Everyone knows that. It would therefore be interesting to hear how the Social Democrats are reasoning on the criticism of the budget. The Economic Institute, the Financial Policy Council, the Swedish National Audit Office and others simply announce that the budget is not in balance and that neither the new nor the old surplus target will be reached. This runs counter to the fiscal framework and cuts into financial savings. Have you even thought about this, Maria Andersson Willner? The moderate budget is not as large, but it is in balance and takes account of economic reality. Please inform us whether these important bodies are wrong!
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-760	Madam President, I would like Thank you for this, Sofia! It is liberating that I can stand here and represent 1% of the state budget and do not have to relate to all the others. Regardless of balance or lack of balance, we can conclude that Bni is at a certain level, and 1 percent of bni is easily calculated – type 49 billion SEK. That is also what we set aside for the aid budget. I think it is good that you clarify that we have not had 1% during the entire term of office, Sofia. However, we have fulfilled the promise we made, namely that we would come up in the new level of the revised BNI calculation during the parliamentary term. We are doing so for 2018, and I am very proud that we have succeeded in doing so. I am concerned about whether the Moderates will now succeed in this if we actually lag behind this much already. It is a great ambition to meet the 2022 target, but 2015 was the ambition to meet it in 2018. Now this has been postponed to 2022. My colleague from the Christian Democrats talked about the world spinning around Sweden, and perhaps it does not. However, we have at least had the impression that we are a humanitarian superpower, and we have got a lot of credit because we have stood up for the 1% target. There are very few countries that even meet the 0.9% target, and I am proud that we are now also delivering 1% on the new basis of calculation.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-763	Madam President, I would like I have visited relief workers, refugees and others affected by terrible conflicts in several countries around the world. Some examples are Jordan, Lebanon, where I have been twice, Syria, Turkey, Israel and Palestine. I have also visited the UN headquarters in New York twice and met representatives of organisations operating in several different countries. There is no doubt that the UN is doing a wonderful job for many people around the world, and I am convinced that Maria shares that view. I therefore appreciate her speech and the warm words about the work in and around crises and their neighbourhoods. What I wonder is this, given my rather high profile trip to Syria not so long ago: why do the government and the Social Democrats completely ignore the important work the UN is doing inside Syria?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-765	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the opportunity to discuss Syria, Markus Wiechel! It is not true that Sweden does not care about the work done inside Syria. We are working in different ways on the new strategy we have, which I outlined to some extent and which has now worked for almost two years, in order to be helpful in various ways in strengthening resilience and contributing to reconstruction. We are also a major contributor to humanitarian aid in Syria. Sweden thus contributes to vulnerable people in Syria in several ways.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-767	Madam President, I would like I am, of course, pleased to hear whether the government would like to increase support for those affected in Syria. The government has previously, including through Sida, assisted with funds for Islamic Relief. It is an organization that many people consider to be part of the Muslim Brotherhood. This is, of course, quite worrying in view of the links that exist there. I hope that Mrs Maria and the Social Democrats may not support continued support there. Otherwise, at the meetings I have had with representatives of the UN in and also around Syria, it has been shown that Swedish Sida does not give any money directly to the work done in the country but rather to the work done in the countries around it. This is, of course, problematic, because it makes it impossible for them to finance important projects for needy people. This is an organisation that can operate both in regime-controlled areas and in areas controlled by different rebel groups. In any case, the organisation may even operate in areas controlled by the Islamic State. When they do not receive direct support for their efforts there, long-term planning of operations is impossible. My question is specific: is it the case that the Social Democrats would like to see increased targeted support for UN organisations in Syria?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-772	Madam President, I would like St. Destiny to Syria is constantly evolving. We currently have a Syria crisis strategy that is working. It covers 1.7 billion between 2016 and 2020. We have humanitarian aid, which since 2011 has amounted to SEK 2.7 billion. We work in different ways for Syria through our seat on the Security Council. Of course, we must always be prepared to find the most effective support possible in order to reach out to the civilian population in Syria and for those who are most affected, that is, ordinary people, to be reached by the support we provide.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-774	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the aid budget, Category 7. I have to say that it is fun to be in this Chamber and listen, because we have a very lively development debate in the Swedish Parliament. Although we sometimes make criticisms about details and how we should prioritise, one thing is clear: the conviction that Sweden should have strong aid and that aid is needed. This is a time when we are facing enormous challenges, and aid has hardly ever been more important. Today we are debating something historic – the largest aid budget ever put forward in Sweden. It is proposed that the aid amount be SEK 49 billion. With that, we reach the 1% target of BNI, which is an objective that very few countries achieve. I am of course incredibly proud and happy about this, and I think that we as Swedes can also be very proud of it. Aid is needed for people in need. It reduces poverty and helps to promote safer and more prosperous societies. Like Kerstin Lundgren and Birgitta Ohlsson, we must not forget that society is actually getting better. We have seen great progress. We have a sharp reduction in poverty, a halved infant mortality and a reduction in maternal mortality. We see a decline in illiteracy, and we are moving in the right direction as regards how many die from malaria. This is a fantastic development, which we must hold on to. Unfortunately, we cannot sit back and be satisfied. Madam President, I would like Almost daily we are faced with reports from the front lines of wars and conflicts. The situation is very serious with many bloody conflicts – more than in a long time. It is not just about Syria, which is perhaps the conflict that is usually brought up in the news, but also about Yemen, Iraq, South Sudan, Ukraine, Afghanistan and others. Around the world, 65 million people are currently on the run and 140 million in need of humanitarian aid. That's four times more than in 2010. At the same time, we have been able to take part in international studies describing a world in which more than 200 million people suffer from natural disasters each year. We see a world where landslides, hurricanes and droughts have become more common, and as it looks, these things will become increasingly common. Climate change is here, and they are increasing. We know that the world's poor are the hardest hit. It is the poor who are hardest hit by disasters, climate change, droughts, floods and monsoons. But among the poor there is one group that is particularly exposed: women. It is 14 times more common for a woman to die in a natural disaster than for a man to do so — 14 times more common. It depends on what jobs we have, where in society we are, what skills we have learned, whether we can swim and so on. We can't have that. It is a terrible figure, and it is linked to the inequality that exists in so many other ways. Madam President, I would like Wars and conflicts, the humanitarian situation, gender equality, ongoing climate change and the shrinking scope for democracy in the world are the most difficult challenges we face. That is also why they are central to our development policy. I thought I would give an overview of the investments that are included in the budget proposal that we are here to debate. The first point concerns peace-building work. Without peace, no development—it's an obvious but vital connection. As more and more of the world's poor live in conflict-affected and failing states, we must invest in tackling the root causes of these conflicts. We are therefore stepping up efforts to prevent armed conflict and investing more resources in building peace. We are increasing aid by 2 billion to the poorest countries, many of which are in conflict or post-conflict situations. We have developed a new strategy for sustainable peace that combines strategic global support with rapid action at country level. The strategy will strengthen the necessary bridge between humanitarian aid, which is so important in a conflict situation, and the long-term development effort to make a stable country live in the future. The second point concerns humanitarian aid. As I said earlier, we are facing the most extensive humanitarian crises since the UN was formed. Unfortunately, the money within the system is not enough by a long way. This year, only about 37 percent of the humanitarian appeals are covered. The deficit has increased four times in ten years. We need more international cooperation, not less. We need countries that take responsibility, and so does Sweden. Last year we were the sixth largest bilateral donor in the world, and we are now increasing humanitarian aid by an additional SEK 1.3 billion. This year we have adopted a new strategy for humanitarian aid, which includes both flexibility and strengthened cooperation for long-term development aid and humanitarian aid. We also safeguard nuclear support. Yesterday, the UNHCR tweeted that, thanks to Sweden's core support, it can be fast-footed where things happen. No one should have to wait for political decisions from different donor countries when the disaster has struck. Nor can it be that we should throw up all the balls and that everyone should run into everything at the same time. We need coordination to be useful. Sweden is a driving force to ensure that the UN and the Member States strengthen coordination so that we do not have an overlap and fragmentation. It is long-term work, but Sweden uses this. A third aspect of our priorities is global gender equality. We have already talked about the difference between men and women in disasters. We see that retrograde forces threaten the ability of girls and women to control their lives and bodies. Women's rights organisations are being opposed. Sexual violence and harassment are a scourge all over the world. We even see it here, in the world's most equal country, in the wake of the metoo campaign that has spread around the world, although it has also come from elsewhere. Discrimination and exclusion are shamefully widespread. They are serious obstacles to women's full enjoyment of human rights, to which we should have equal access. Sweden is in favour of a feminist foreign and development policy for precisely these reasons. Without targeted support for gender equality and for women's and girls' rights, real development is not possible. Therefore, we have commissioned Sida to develop a new strategy for global gender equality and women's and girls' rights. We have also developed a new global strategy for sustainable social development, covering about 1 billion over the next five years. It will strengthen access to healthcare and contraception and promote better education for girls and women. And we have an integrated gender equality work in the Swedish development work. Madam President, I would like The fourth issue is the climate issue, which is the major issue that strikes us all, although it mainly affects the poor. We need to bring down climate emissions significantly, and this is a matter of urgency. The crops are degraded by drought, and the monsoon rains are persistent. We have a warm sea that makes migrant fish change paths, and around the equator we can now see a wet desert that is empty. The Paris Agreement confirmed that developed countries should take a responsibility to contribute to climate finance, and Sweden intends to live up to that. We therefore strengthen climate work in most country strategies. We have launched a new sustainable strategy for the environment, climate, the sea and the sustainable use of natural resources, and we increase the total effort for the environment, climate and the sea by nearly SEK 750 million. Finally, democracy and human rights have eroded in many places. It goes backwards in over 60 countries. We see that there are authoritarian rulers and a sloping plane here. The government wants to use the aid to counter this worrying development. We have commissioned Sida to create impact and synergies to strengthen democratic development. The government is preparing a new strategy for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. We are increasing support for UNFPA, UNAIDS and UN Women – the three key institutions for the work of the SRHR, and we are one of the world's by far the largest donors to these. We have taken steps to integrate the SRHR into humanitarian aid. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's aid should be results-oriented and long-term. It should work where the greatest challenges and injustices are. With the focus and the investments we announce in the budget, Sweden has a powerful tool to do this. It makes a difference on the ground for people living in poverty and oppression, and it makes a difference in reality.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-806	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by welcoming Emma Nohrén to her first debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It was very sad that the Government chose not to be here. Now I see it as Emma Nohrén knows more than the government.se and possibly can answer where the minister is, because there it said just a foreign trip. I have another, more political question. Does the Green Party give more priority to climate investment than traditional aid? Before the elections, the Green Party promised 1 billion to climate that would be outside the aid budget and additional. Then there was half a billion in the budget. Now we are seeing more and more the shift from humanitarian and peace-keeping, which we have already discussed here a few times, to clean climate action, which can actually be financed in other ways too. According to the government itself, 9% of the budget goes to climate change. I have asked the Parliamentary Investigation Service to look at this, but it was complicated to find out how much it would be. It is 9 per cent this year, and the year before it was 5 per cent. There has been some change, but the trend is quite clear. It is clear that the Minister for Development has a little abdicated and is now climate minister and is not even here. The real Minister for Development is now Sida's Gd Jämtin Jämtin, and she comes from the Social Democrats. My question is: will you try to make the aid budget more of a climate budget?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-813	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I would also like to say congratulations on my birthday to the honourable Member. Let's start with why the Secretary of State isn't here. Of course, I'm not a substitute for her. But she is travelling in Mali, and just as we Members are travelling, you cannot always tell us before where you are going. It is for security reasons that it is only afterwards that you can tell us where you have been. She has been in the Dinji River's innermost delta, which is an important wetland. She has also looked at how to make food supply work, issues related to agriculture and how to get women involved. She has talked about SRHR at school and how to get women into the peace process. Of course she'd be happy to be here. But it is not always possible to control the security situation, when it is convenient to travel and who you can meet, and I hope that we can overlook that. As far as the climate budget is concerned, we have adopted a new strategy for the sustainable environment, climate and seas and the sustainable use of natural resources as part of this work. Climate action and environmental elements must be included in the aid budget, and it is not always possible to pick out what is what. But if you focus only on humanitarian aid or only on a certain part, you miss out on what causes a lot of disasters. We must work on the peace front and help the poor countries, so that they can be climate-smart, and help them get on the track and comply with the Paris Agreement. They should also be able to take the shortcut past oil and fossil fuel. I see this as a large part of aid, not as a part outside.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-818	Mr President, I would like to It is obviously an important journey, and I assume that the Government will only make important journeys. However, I question the timing of no one. She had several dates to choose from so that we could have this budget debate together. Faced with this debate, a simple media search was made, and it gave almost four times as many hits on Lövin and climate as on Lövin and aid in the last six months. It was about twice as much climate as aid in the previous six months. But when the minister took office, it was about the same. The only time aid was more important for the Minister in the media was autumn/ winter 2015. The discussion then focused on whether two thirds of the aid should be spent on reception of refugees in Sweden or not. Aid has strong support, but my view is that it undermines aid support when making UN campaigns for aid funds and also provides large sums of money to the Green Fund, which is still not quite operational and delivers. It worries me. Then my question is: how will the Green Party defend this before the voters?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-823	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Mr Arkelsten. I do not really see how all these issues are linked to the area of expenditure that we are now debating. But we do have a minister with two portfolios. She is both Minister for Climate Change and Minister for International Development, and it is clear that she must be seen on both issues and keep the portfolios separate, but often they also work together. We have a climate challenge in the world that is huge and affects everyone, and it affects the poorest most. But we must have all our parts when we talk about aid. The government focuses on climate-affected states, prevention and humanitarian aid, climate, reduced democratic space, lack of respect for human rights, not least the SRHR. All these parts are included. It's hard to have one pot for one thing and one pot for another. We work with strategies and thematic issues after the policy framework that we have adopted and that all consultation bodies were in favour of. Many international players, such as Canada and France, are asking for and want to make use of this. I think we are on our feet when we make our climate budget and our aid budget.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-827	Mr President, I would like to It is of course unfortunate that Minister for Development Isabella Lövin does not participate in this year's only debate on priorities for the international aid that Sweden carries out. However, I appreciate that Emma Nohrén, on the other hand, is taking part in today's debate, recently appointed as responsible for these issues. I also know that her commitment to these issues is great. That is precisely why, Mr President, I am surprised by the priorities of the Green Party when they are responsible for international aid in the Swedish Government. It worries me, now that the aid is increasing so significantly, that the government is not increasing the funding to strengthen our Swedish civil society organisations with a single crown – those organisations that often have the right channels and contacts to achieve priceless aid efforts. How has it come to this? How can the Green Party work so hard in government to strengthen the UN but not to strengthen the Swedish CSOs?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-831	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for your welcome, Sofia Damm. It will be exciting to continue working in this committee if I continue to have confidence. As I said in a previous reply to Sofia Arkelsten, the government has focused its efforts on conflict-affected states, prevention and humanitarian aid, climate, reduced democratic space, SRHR and human rights. Of course, civil society is a large part of this, and it also gets a pot that is used for this. I can't see that we have somehow cut it down.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-833	Mr President, I would like to I thank Emma Nohrén for her reply. No, you have not cut back, but you have not increased to civil society organisations at a time when aid is increasing so significantly. Instead, you choose to channel the search for aid through the UN. During a Question Time in this House earlier last autumn, I put a similar question to Minister Lövin. She justified it by the fact that we need a strong UN, which we do, and that we need to reform the UN, which I agree with. She also replied that through our funds we have a major impact on UN policy. I get the feeling that the government's somewhat disproportionate UN-vurm costs a little too much. We will always show that we stand up for the UN. Stefan Löfven expressed this in connection with our peace-keeping operation in Mali. It does not surprise me as much as hearing an environmentalist representative stress how important it is to buy influence in the UN Scraper in New York. I have experienced the Green Party as a party that stands up for civil society organisations, so I wonder: why is it not done anymore?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-838	Mr President, I would like to I do not share the view that we are not doing this. We stand up for civil society. As I said in my speech, only 37% of the humanitarian appeals are covered. We have a four-fold deficit now than we've had in ten years. What Sweden can contribute makes a difference. As the sixth largest donor in the world, we have an influence on where and how to use this money. We see a reduction in democracy and conditional money from many other countries. They want to decide and control, and then it will be difficult. I think the way we focus on investing the money and the way we manage through policy frameworks is the way we should go and use our money.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-841	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to welcome Emma Nohrén to the committee. I look forward to future debates. I have many questions for the Green Party. But when Emma Nohrén welcomed the need to support women around the world, it was quite easy to choose what to ask about. This concerns the government's assistance to certain organisations. As in the previous shift with Maria Andersson Willner, I wonder how the government through Sida can support Islamic Relief, which is considered by many assessors to be part of the Muslim Brotherhood. How does it rhyme with trying to create equality and equality around the world and support all groups?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-844	Mr President, I would like to We have our country strategies, and we follow them. Aid should be principled and not unconditional, and it should be re-examined if necessary. We last saw it in Cambodia, where the situation had to change it. As far as I know, there is no strangeness in the support that goes to Syria. I am firmly convinced that what is going on, what is happening and where the money is is being followed up. We also have indicators and results for the use of aid.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-846	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party has previously had a number of representatives who have had to leave because of their links with the Muslim Brotherhood. That is one of the reasons why I am particularly concerned when, in a government position, money is channelled to an organization that is considered by many to be part of this brotherhood. If the government now sees that Islamic Relief meets a number of conditions that the government imposes, what are the requirements for organizations like this?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-848	Mr President, I would like to It's incredible to stick on us environmentalists something we don't stand for at all, and I don't feel comfortable with it. The aid we provide according to the country strategies we have been monitored and followed up. It can also be revised gradually if you find out things. However, I believe that this is entirely appropriate.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-850	Mr President, I would like to In 1781 the tomb of the German-Roman emperor Fredrik II was opened in Palermo. The Muslims had called him al-anbarature, the emperor, while Christians reproached him as the Sultan of Lucera. Fredrik was dressed in the most remarkable way: in Oriental silksweep embroidered in Arabic letters. In his hand, Fredrik held a Sarcen sword. Yet it was he alone who conquered Jerusalem for Christians — and this without bloodshed. He conquered Jerusalem with a piece of law. His grave shows that history is more complicated than we usually think. Someone may wonder why I am talking about the German-Roman Emperor Fredrik II in a debate on Swedish aid. That is a perfectly reasonable question. The insight of history shows that much could have been different, and it can still be. By mastering and understanding old decisions and the reasons for them, we can more easily distance ourselves from today's coincidences and ideas for new, more lasting solutions. History seen through a keyhole turns into stories. Swedish aid to Palestine will help to strengthen the Palestinian people and its institutions, so that Palestine on the day there is a peace agreement and the Israeli occupation ceases to be well equipped to function as a state. We are making clear demands for good control, respect for human rights, the fight against corruption and gender equality, and we are pushing for further reform. An important part of Sweden's support goes to promoting a viable and independent civil society. It is essential to support the human rights of Palestinians and to promote democratic accountability, both today and in the future. All projects are monitored and audited in several ways, including in line with international audit standards. All organisations must respect human rights and refrain from discrimination and sedition. Otherwise, cooperation shall be suspended. Some debaters question Swedish aid to Palestine for the fact that Palestine is characterised by corruption, but often without giving examples of this. It is important that projects that are full of corruption or that spread anti-Semitism come forward. That is not the development we want to support. If such projects are detected, they shall be terminated. Some others say that Sweden should suspend aid to Palestine because Abbas is moving in an increasingly authoritarian direction. It's true that he does. However, we must not forget that Sweden has recognised Palestine and said that we support a democratic and peaceful Palestine that should live side by side with the State of Israel. However, we shall condemn all steps in an authoritarian direction. To demand that Palestine must have full democracy in order to get Swedish aid money may sound reasonable, but in fact it is not thought through. Sweden works for democracy development, and then it is strange to make demands for perfect democracy in order to get part of Swedish aid. If everything were already good, development aid would not be needed. Only those who do not need assistance would then have their application approved. It is therefore important that Sweden retains its aid to Palestine – not because of the problems, but because of the many challenges that remain. Is Sweden giving aid to Palestine without any conditions? Sweden's support to the Palestinian Authority is channelled through the EU through the so-called Pegase mechanism. It covers various types of sector support with clear objectives and indicators and goes to salary payments to Palestinian officials, doctors, teachers and nurses. The European Commission ensures that no money goes to persons or organisations on the EU list of terrorist organisations or persons convicted of terrorist offences in Israel. As far as we can see, the EU control mechanism works well. Palestinian society is full of people who want to live in peace, develop trade with the outside world and build a country based on the principles of the rule of law. That's why we're still here. It is also about our common heritage and about common access. Speaking of historical heritage, how did Emperor Fredrik II fare in his struggle to win Jerusalem, and what did he really think? One Sunday afternoon in February 1229, Fredrik II signed an agreement. This meant that for ten years Jerusalem would be a Christian city. Under no circumstances would Christians be allowed to leave the agreed area, nor under any circumstances be allowed to build up the city wall of Jerusalem. Thus, the city would be completely defenseless. Afterwards, Emperor Fredrik said: If I had not been afraid to lose face before my own people, I would never have bothered the Sultan. For me, neither Jerusalem nor anything in Palestine is worth the trouble. So a crusade could end, without religious fanaticism, without bloodshed, but with a bit of law instead. Perhaps the fact that it amazes us means that we have taken too much in history as given. In 1250, Fredrik II was buried in the Christian Cathedral of Palermo, wrapped in Arabic - written silk. I believe that the Swedish commitment to Palestine, unlike Emperor Fredrik, is worth the trouble.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-865	Mr President, I would like to Anders Österberg has once again spoken warmly about contributions to the Palestinian Authority. It rightly raises a lot of different questions. Firstly, the recognition of Palestine itself is something to be called into question. This is particularly true in view of the fact that it does not meet the requirements that the Swedish Government has set for recognition. Secondly, it is known today that money has been channelled from the Palestinian Authority PLO to people on terror. Every year, the Palestinian Authority will spend the equivalent of SEK 2.7 billion on salaries and contributions to people who have carried out acts of terrorism. Mr Anders did not mention that in his speech. Schools are run where several school books have proved to contain anti-Semitic features. In some cases, terrible people have even been hailed as Adolf Hitler. How does it meet the government's objectives and ambitions?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-869	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that support for the Palestinian Authority is absolutely crucial. It is through the Palestinian Authority that it will be able to build an independent state. It is therefore important for the EU to provide support to the Palestinian Authority. The question was: In what way does the Swedish Government support the provision of support to prisoners in Palestine and the existence of school books with anti-Semitism? It was something like that. No, it doesn't. If there is anti-Semitism, it should of course be removed. There should be no Swedish aid money there. Nor does aid money go to condemned Palestinians.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-871	Mr President, I would like to Swedish aid money goes to PLO, among other things. The PLO, on the other hand, has paid convicted terrorists with subsidies and salaries. Indirectly, Swedish tax money goes to pay salaries for convicted terrorists. I have great respect for the desire to promote peace in the region. I hope most people do. I also have great respect for the desire to promote a two-state solution. But we're not there yet. The fact is that we will not achieve peace or sustainable development there by supporting the PLO, which systematically opposes development through, among other things, wage payments to convicted terrorists. For me, it is completely unreasonable how one can have that attitude. The government wants to support actors in the area who are working for more peace. You don't do that through the PLO. Then somehow you have to find some other way out. What I wanted an answer to earlier was how the government can justify channeling money to the PLO, which is known to pass money on to convicted terrorists and which governs a region where there is anti-Semitism in school books.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-876	Mr President, I would like to If there is money that the PLO pays through Swedish aid funds to convicted terrorists, it should not happen. Then Markus Wiechel also has an obligation to report this. I hope Markus Wiechel does.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-877	Mr President, I would like to Energy issues may not be the ones that always top the headlines of newspapers, but it is one of the few policies that concerns us all. Imagine for a second that we are failing the security of supply and that, for some reason, the electricity is completely shut down. It may be as a result of a natural disaster, terrorist attack or for other reasons. This part of the year goes the first thought to light and heat. The next problem will be contact with the outside world. When fixed phones are gradually replaced with mobiles and smart phones, you ask yourself how we can make contact with the outside world and not be screened off. Not to mention all the social functions that depend so much on electricity functioning. I am thinking of hospitals, police, fire brigades, retirement homes and schools, or industry where every lost hour of production is a blow to competitiveness. Security of energy supply is the basis for the spin of society's gears. It is not only requested but expected by citizens as well as businesses. However, the issue is bigger than that, because we are facing major climate challenges. The world needs to jointly switch and reduce emissions in order to protect our planet. A climate-smart energy production and use is one of the most important factors to significantly reduce our environmental impact. We need to leave coal, oil and natural gas to the benefit of carbon-free energy production and electric cars. Here we are in Sweden a long way away, but we can do much more. These two values, security of supply and sustainability, are the guiding principles of our energy policy. But there is also something else, a third value that for us Moderates is extremely important. It's modernity. We need a social climate where technological development and innovation are acknowledged and where the conditions exist for new inventions that create opportunities we cannot even imagine today. I would argue that new technologies are our absolutely most important tool for influencing the world on the climate issue. Who thinks it's enough to go to international summits and try to persuade Donald Trump or Xi Jinping to change their minds, change or stop with coal power? Compare it with inventions such as the catalyst, the electric car and the LED lamp that shook the whole world and improved the environment significantly. What those inventions have in common is that none of them have been invented by politicians. They have been invented by creative people in free markets and in modern companies. The task of politics must therefore be to remove obstacles in order for the next technological leap to take place and develop here. One of these obstacles is the lack of technology neutrality in policy. Energy policy has been dominated for a long time by putting various types of force against each other instead of building a system where it is primarily emissions that are penalised. In this budget, the government continues to spend subsidies on individual power strokes and detached projects, when we have already agreed on long-term rules of play in, for example, the electricity certification system. Long-term and technology-neutral polluters pay-principle create incentives for a technological leap that we can hardly dream of at present. Then we cannot chain ourselves in advance to the technology that exists today. In addition, a more business-friendly policy is needed, where it is possible to achieve profitability in environmental progress or energy technology. In addition, an even more free-trade government is needed, which removes tariffs which make it difficult today to export environmental and energy technologies worldwide. In addition to the important values of security of supply, sustainability and modernity – the general approach – I would also like to go into some specific parts of the budget and comment on them specifically. Let me start with the biggest new investment in the government budget, increased investment aid for solar cells, to which we say no. Only about a year and a half ago, the government came forward with a tax increase on solar electricity. After massive criticism from, among other things, the Alliance had to withdraw this tax, and quickly swing the pendulum. Large subsidies are now being made for solar energy. As you can probably guess from my introduction, we are extremely positive to technology development. We are in favour of new technologies and we welcome the fact that individuals are making efforts to change and influence the environment and speed up the energy transition. It may be that the government's intentions have been good, but premature experimentation with various instruments can also fail. Only last week, the Swedish National Audit Office presented a comprehensive review of the support for solar energy. The report shows that state aid for solar electricity is based on evidence that lacks thorough socio-economic analysis. A different design of the aid would probably provide more renewable electricity for the money. In addition, the Swedish National Audit Office believes that the Riksdag has not been fully informed of its decisions on the matter. Against this background, it is remarkable that the government continues to apply subsidies in this area, following the criticism that has come. The government could demonstrably use the money better, or at least try to defend itself and analyse how tax money can be better spent. That is, I mean, irresponsible handling of taxpayers' money. Another issue I would like to comment on, which is often obscured, concerns a power battle which, even in this government budget, has been left out of the spotlight: hydropower. In fact, Sweden is the country in Europe that has disrupted the share of renewable electricity, and it is due to hydropower, which accounts for 40% of our energy supply. It acts as both base and control force and is wind and weather resistant. Despite this, hydropower is threatened by constant re-evaluations that require the closure of many power plants. That is why I am extremely pleased with the cross-block agreement, in which we have clearly concluded that hydropower should not only be protected but should also be increased. Negotiations are now under way to deepen the issue, and we expect the intentions of the agreement that has been established to continue to be protected. Another issue I would like to comment on is research and funding for research. We believe that it must be possible to research all the major forces we have in Sweden, which of course includes nuclear power. Regardless of which government we will have after the next and next elections, nuclear power will be a significant part of our energy mix in the future. Even for those in here who do not think so, it is important that nuclear waste is managed in the best possible way. It should therefore be obvious that we should research and expand our knowledge in this area too. In any case, therefore, there is good reason not to have ideological blindfolds in the award of research funding. That's why we want to be able to research all the major forces we have in Sweden. Finally, it is my firm conviction that we are facing a bright future, although we are now facing climate challenges and other threats. However, it requires a policy that embraces new technologies, is open to the outside world and delivers well thought-out reforms, with every chandelier being used in the most effective way. These are the guiding words both for our budget motion and for the government years that await us when we take over after the elections.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-899	Mr President, I would like to It paints against Christmas, and we now have the season ahead of us marked by darkness and cold, which for man historically was a matter of survival. Although the know-how of energy policies has increased overall during the past term of office and the work carried out within the framework of the Energy Commission, perhaps above all on the difference between power and energy, a certain lack of knowledge is reflected in the fact that, in action, little is done about the development that we can now see. Prior to each winter, Svenska Kraftnät compiles a report on the power balance, i.e. how much electricity is available at the expected time with the highest electricity consumption during the coming winter. Sweden has historically had a good margin but is now moving at a furious pace from being able to cope with the hours of disrupting electricity consumption to becoming more dependent on our surrounding world and fossil power from the countries surrounding Sweden. For a normal winter, Sweden's power balance is still positive, but it has gone from a margin of 2,600 megawatts in winter 2015/16 to 1,300 megawatts in the following winter. For the winter we're facing now, it's down to 655 megawatts. In less than three years the margin has decreased by 75 per cent. For a 10-year winter, the situation is even more alarming. There you have gone from a margin of almost 1 100 megawatts two winters ago to −247 megawatts, and for this winter you land at −845 megawatts. It's going down at a furious pace. Subsidy-driven expansion of wind and solar power simultaneously increases the requirements for control power, where we may not be able to cope with the fluctuations of hydropower in Sweden in the future. Moreover, the challenges, or rather the politically driven problems, in terms of the delivery of power are reinforced by the most regrettable early closure and decommissioning of well-functioning nuclear power plants that are now at the door. Nuclear power is responsible for the base power that forms the bottom plate on which the entire Swedish power system rests and is not least important for the electricity-intensive base industry in Sweden. If this foundation is allowed to disappear, as a result of political action which seeks to destroy the market economy of the electricity market, it threatens both the competitiveness of industry and our welfare. Mr President, I would like to Nothing in the energy agreement that has been concluded between five of Parliament's parties moves towards us producing electricity mainly when we need it. These parties have also introduced planned economic elements, which now determine by law how much electricity will be added. Should the market prices and subsidies become too low, the government should push the subsidy cranes so that you can start building again. In this field of energy policy expenditure, the government has placed all its focus on investment aid for solar cells under the envelope for energy technology. This appropriation has increased from approximately SEK 100 million in the last year of the previous term of office to the proposed level of nearly SEK 1 billion. It is a tenfold increase in the level in about four years. Any alternative proposals by the opposition parties in the field of expenditure include substantial reductions in this appropriation. Let's go the farthest and completely remove the grant. Only one opposition party is the exception and instead wants to invest more, namely the Center Party. Although the grant has been tenfold over a four-year period, it is considered that additional funding is needed for subsidies and adds SEK 40 million extra. These increases have repeatedly announced more subsidy crowns than the government has added. One might almost think that the Center Party, even if the government were to invest more billions and also tenfold the amount once more, would find it logical to invest a few extra crowns. The Center Party has tried to profile itself as some kind of plus menu variant of the government's subsidy and grant policy in this area. Mr President, I would like to Linking this to what is the real challenge in the Swedish power system, to master our seasonal variations, it is quite interesting to note the government's ambitions in this area of expenditure. Sweden has already gone down to an import demand during a ten-year winter and will probably do so shortly even for a normal winter with the announced closures of two more nuclear power plants. Perhaps the government should put more energy into producing an effect when we ask for it and not the other way round. The question is how much solar power will contribute to solving Sweden's impact situation. The assessment made by the Swedish power grid, which is the business that evaluates this every winter, of the availability of solar power when we have the power requirement, is that it will contribute 0 percent. If you are a little versed in the world of mathematics, you know that 0 percent of very little is as much as 0 percent of very much. Some conclusions should also be drawn from this. With regard to the government's inflated subsidy rate around solar cells, one does not even get support from the Swedish S olenergi industry organisation, which may almost have to be seen as unique. They only went out two months ago with demands to phase out support for solar cells. The Swedish National Audit Office has also reviewed the total amount of support for solar electricity, which was recently published in a report in which there is quite a lot of criticism regarding that support. The thinking about subsidies has hit hard and is also characterised by much of the government's policy in other areas where we are going to subsidise everything possible, even the repairing and patching of shoes and clothing. The question is how far you are prepared to go in the field of energy policy in the future, where you certainly do not seem to want to be guided by correct price signals from the market. What is needed in this area is more market and less policy. Mr President, I would like to The main starting point for energy policy should be to serve Sweden as an industrial and welfare nation, not the reverse. Today, we have a large surplus of electricity that we are random to our neighbours at a price that is below half the cost of what is needed to build the plants that will generate this electrical energy. An obvious effort to strengthen the value of the electricity produced in Sweden for Swedish interests and to stimulate the use of electricity where it can be used rationally in Sweden should be the starting point. Our electricity production is already exclusively fossil-free, but our fossil dependence is mainly found in certain sectors such as transport and industry. There are good conditions to electrify these sectors at an ever-faster pace, as the costs of batteries in particular are falling steadily, which means that, for example, the transport sector is soon competitive with fossil-powered cars – this without a single crown of subsidies. The need on the part of the state is mainly linked to investment in infrastructure for a new fleet of vehicles. The guiding principle for reducing our dependence on fossil energy sources should primarily be linked to electrification and not to targeting expensive and ineffective subsidies leading to dead ends. With this, Mr President, I would like to endorse the reservation contained in the report.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-920	Mr President, I would like to A great deal is happening in the energy sector, not least on the electricity side. Technology development is progressing. The cost reduction on sun, wind and batteries is massive, creating new opportunities and new challenges and rocking old business models. Politically, too, much has happened in recent years, not least thanks to this technological development. I can proudly say that the Center Party was a key element in getting the broad energy agreement that came about a year and a half ago in place. We do this because we take responsibility for Sweden. We know that industry needs long-term rules of play, and we know that tough targets are needed for the transition to a renewable energy system to take off. Then this agreement on electricity is very important. After the energy agreement came into place, it has been a rather busy time that has not been as audience. The tax rates have been adjusted, a target for energy efficiency has been set, the electricity certification system has been extended and it is now being investigated how we should abolish offshore wind connection charges. There are, of course, questions left to deal with. Perhaps the most important thing that remains in this energy agreement is about the law of hydropower. It is also clear in the agreement what the goal and livelihood of that work should be. The process shall not be unduly financial or administratively burdensome for the individual. Today's situation for the small hydropower with millions of processes, which cost money, time and energy, for the trials of dams that have existed in half a millennium will change. For us, it is a matter of course that environmental investments can be made even in small power plants that currently have permits that extend far back in time. They should be able to be done without trials that require millions of dollars and long court proceedings that wear out the power plant owners. It is important that we resolve these issues. It will be a real value measure of how keen the government is that this energy agreement should hold. If it is to do so, we must have confidence and trust between parties, and then we must deliver on this point. Then there is no excuse as to what the EU demands and does not demand. That hoax has already been drawn on the solar tax. We didn't fall for it then, and we're not falling for it now. In recent years we have not only had an energy agreement, but we have also seen a government with its very own definition of good environmental policy. The Green Policy of the Center Party is about raising taxes and introducing rules that make it harder and harder to release. We want to see less taxes on renewables and on jobs and entrepreneurship, and we want to make it easier for those who make environmentally smart choices. The government, on the other hand, seems to have a policy of raising taxes on renewables. The tax on solar electricity, wind power, ethanol and rape diesel has been increased, and this has been blamed on the EU. Then, when the European Union bites away and says that it is not at all the European Union's fault, the government is forced to back down. But you do not back down all the way, but you still have a solar tax, and you still have the tax on wind power that you raised, as well as some taxes on renewable fuels. It also requires constant pressure on the government to fight when you are down in Brussels for it to be the same rules for fossils as renewables. Today, there are incredibly much tougher demands on renewables in terms of traceability than on fossil fuels. That's completely unreasonable. A basic requirement would be that it is at least a level playing field. We in the Center Party not only dismiss the tax increases on renewables but also come up with a full battery of our own, green ones, proposals that create more renewable electricity generation, a greener transport sector and reduce emissions of climate gases, particles and other things. A sample of this, a little potpurri, is that we want
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-935	中 remove the electricity tax currently on ships and buses 中 allow neighbors to create small micronets to share the solar electricity that might be on the best roof instead of everyone putting solar cells on each roof Have the original marking of the fuel at the pump so that it is possible to choose the green diesel from Piteå instead of the black diesel from Putin Introduce a cycle premium for biogas that takes advantage of the bio-fertiliser produced and actually replaces fossil-produced chemical fertilisers. We are also addressing in our budget the major challenges that we see in the electricity system of the future. We need to spend resources on technological development and pilot projects rather than on grant schemes. That is why we also choose, for example, to put resources on energy stocks. It is about rewarding those who want a Tesla battery at home, but also a little bigger pilot projects such as making gas from electricity when we have surplus, what is called power to gas. Energy stocks are not just about the individual consumer being able to store his own produced electricity. True, it is good and fun to do so so that you can use it when you need it. But it's about an incredible amount more. With energy stocks in consumers you can cut power peaks, i.e. even production a little more over the day. The battery can be charged at night and kick off when you need it a little extra. It can also help to equalize production, not only in itself but perhaps in its neighborhood. It provides economic benefits for the consumer, but also for the network owner who may not have to invest as much in their networks in order to cope with the maximum use. With smart regulation and wise structures, society can also get a backup that can be used for frequency problems or other things that cause interference in the system. In short – with different types of energy stocks, there is great potential to solve many problems at the same time, although it is obviously not the only solution to the problems we face. The regulatory framework also needs to play with it. They don't today. Sweden should be a pioneer country in environmental, climate and energy issues. Being a pioneer country means delivering results for the Center Party and combining it with growth. That is how we get other countries to follow. India, China or the United States will never follow a country that restricts its mobility, inhibits its growth and restricts business. It seems to be the model this government is working on. This government is aiming for the most detailed regulatory framework or high-flying vision. But it doesn't impress others. It is when delivering concrete results that others want to follow. That is why we need rules and instruments that enable our companies to develop cutting-edge technology that we then export to others. It is good for the Swedish economy, and it is good for global climate emissions. The climate is global. And we need others to follow us. But the most important thing is perhaps that emissions are increasing now, according to SCB. They didn't do that under the alliance government. But they do so under the red-green regime, when the Green Party holds the Ministry of Environment and Climate Action. The fact that the person who spends the most money does not get the most results may never have been clearer. The climate will not wait. That is why the Center Party has chosen not to wait either. We have made agreements in the field of climate change, in the field of energy, because that is necessary. Our policy needs to have more impact. Now the government needs to get in the collar and start delivering. A good source of inspiration is the Center Party budget. It is clearly a few years ahead of the government's own policy. It is at the forefront, and it creates real climate benefits. I'm proud of that. But that is above all what Sweden, the world and the climate need.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-952	Mr President, I would like to For us in the Liberals, politics is primarily about the climate. I want to raise my eyes outside Parliament and Sweden's borders. We know that a fourth part of all CO2 emissions in the world comes from electricity and heat. Six other parliamentary parties are also aware of this, which is behind the Swedish climate targets. This, however, does not know the climate deniers, and Donald Trump does not know that. The President of the United States continues to spread lies and factual errors about energy policy and climate. I wish Trump could have been here with us today in our debate. I think we'd have had a lot to talk about. Science states that we need to reduce emissions if global warming is to be stopped. What's Trump doing? He is leaving the Paris Agreement, which is the first global climate agreement ever. Science states that coal burning is like poison to the climate. What's Trump doing? He opens up old coal mines that Obama had managed to close. When politics becomes factually resistant, there is cause for concern. The American climate and energy debate is so devoid of reality that a senator brought a snowball up to the pulpit to prove that climate change is a myth because there is snow. I think it's time for a new campaign: Make climate action great again! Mr President, I would like to Why am I bringing this up? Because the major and greatest challenges in energy policy do not exist in Sweden. In Sweden, we have come a long way with our climate work. As usual, we are the best in the class, and it is good that we continue to be. We will serve as a role model for others, and we will inspire and spread new technologies. The challenges are in other countries, not only in the United States, where Trump celebrates the Christmas Eve of climate-deniers, but also in countries that are quite close to us. Our neighbours Poland and Germany are happy to burn coal, as if we were still alive in the 19th century. Mr President, I would like to I visited Vattenfall's German coal mines the other year and stood in the middle of the 70 meter deep holes in Welzow-Süd-Süd. I had to hold pieces of the so - called black gold, which is such a great damage to the climate. Mr President, I would like to We must do more to close Europe's coal mines. This is the major challenge of energy policy, and we should actually be discussing this more here today. We must demand that Germany and Poland close down their coal industry, preferably by offering them Swedish electricity. It is only when the EU has done its homework that we can put pressure on the United States, China and the other major emitters. President Obama was right when he said: We are the first generation to have full knowledge of the climate threat, and we are the last generation to do something about it. For this reason, the Liberals give priority to the climate in energy policy, Mr President, and that is why we find it difficult to understand the government's 100% renewable target. The focus should be on emissions. The risk with government policy is that we will have to close more reactors and import dirty electricity to Sweden. We already see signs of this on cold winter days. Liberals believe that nuclear power is needed in order for us to cope with climate change, but we are no longer nuclear hugging at all costs. We welcome renewable energy with open arms. Cheap solar panels are a revolution for energy policy worldwide. However, the subsidies for solar panels proposed by the government are completely wasted. The industry itself says they are not needed. They delay the installation process, which means that people are waiting for support instead of investing in solar panels themselves. In addition, subsidies help to avoid pressure on prices. Mr President, I would like to The major energy policy debate this parliamentary term has concerned the energy agreement. The Liberals are not behind it. We believe that the agreement provides for large subsidies to weather-dependent electricity production, which costs a lot without providing any benefit to the climate. The overproduction of renewable energy that we will have with government policy can damage our electricity system and that of our neighbouring countries. Government policy can have drastic consequences for countries in our vicinity. This perspective is unfortunately lacking when politics stops at Sweden's border, because Sweden is not an island.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-965	Mr President, I would like to Yesterday our committee was visited by a large delegation from Indonesia. If you compare, you can say that we have almost no challenges at all in our country. We think that Sweden is a surface large country. We have many lakes, coastal areas and two larger islands of great importance not least for the tourism industry – Öland and Gotland. Access to electricity all day long, all year round and all over the country requires stable electricity grids and connections between the mainland and the islands. Compared to Indonesia, which has 17 000 – 18 000 islands, we have, as I said, minor challenges. In fact, Gotland has been waiting for a new cable from the mainland for a long time. Before the summer of 2017, the announcement from the Swedish Raft Network came that it is not considered socio-economically justifiable to fulfill this promise. Not surprisingly, the opinion was not shared by the population of Gotland, who believes that they have the same right to a stable electricity supply as the rest of the country. The Energy Authority has stated that the island will become fully self-sufficient in electricity and that a power line between the island and the mainland will not be needed in 20 years' time. Marine and land-based wind, solar and bioenergy as waste heat from the island's industries will contribute to sufficient electricity generation for both ordinary consumers and businesses. During the next year, the Swedish Energy Agency will present a plan for how Gotland will become an independent electricity producing island, which is of course extremely positive in the long term. But had I lived on Gotland, I would still have asked myself the question: In 20 years' time? How does it work in the next few years? Well, that's pretty important for all of us, isn't it? We Christian Democrats want the Energy Authority to really review the need that exists at present and in the next few years. It is also true, Mr President, that the Swedish railway network has a major ongoing work to develop the major backbone networks in Sweden as a whole. Due to the climate and the weather we have in Sweden, we know that the more wires that can be placed in the ground, the less the risk of interruption in storms and heavy snowfalls. There are about 160 local electricity grid owners in Sweden today. With this, of course, the security aspect has come to light but not enough focus, we think Christian Democrats. Access to electricity is essential in our society, and it can be easy and fast to put a country under great pressure when neither IT nor other infrastructure works because electricity itself does not work. We therefore want the Swedish Energy Agency and the Swedish railway network to be given the task of reviewing safety, the risk of being attacked on the electricity grids around Sweden and what preparedness the local network owners can have in the event of unforeseen events. The Christian Democrats have in the past put forward the need for a cybersecurity authority, and there too this mission could be included. Mr President, I would like to For us Christian Democrats, it is important that the different types of energy complement each other and can be used in the most optimal way. Today and then a few years back, it is quite time to be able to produce your own electricity and call yourself a microproducer. At the same time, jerky conditions for solar power and poor profitability for wind power have not made it so easy for those who actually want to be. Some that could be called real microproducers are those who own and operate small-scale hydropower around the country. Perhaps it is run mostly for its own operations but also for the needs of the local community. We know that there have been problems with small hydropower for years. Environmental measures have been required which have not always been seen as the most optimal in terms of both costs and the environment. I feel confident in the wording that we agreed precisely in the Energy Agreement, that we will find solutions so that it will not be administratively and economically burdensome for the individual in relation to the desired environmental benefit, just as my colleague Rickard Nordin from the Center Party also mentioned. At present, a departmental spromemoria that can be seen as a first draft from the Ministry of Environment and Energy officials – i.e. a draft that is not politically anchored or written – has been out for consultation. A large number of comments have been received, and political work is now beginning to take advantage of the proposals for amendments that have come from the consultation bodies. I can promise those who may be watching us right now on the web or on TV that there is a good will for positive changes here. There is a very good will to accommodate the wording contained in the Energy Agreement. No one should hesitate about this. I also believe, and my hope is, that we will come to an agreement, just as we have done in other parts of the energy agreement. But a good will for change is also about, as in any negotiation, that you may not always be able to get through everything you want. Finally, I would like to mention the need for further research and development into new technologies in the field of energy. The Christian Democrats have been writing in the Energy Movement for several years about the need for research into nuclear technology to continue. Perhaps it may sound unnecessary if we are to shut down nuclear power. But as long as we have it, we must have competence in this area, and then research is also needed. I know that I have talked about it before, and I would like to emphasise another area that I really think would have potential in Sweden too, and that is geothermal energy. There are products that we say we use for environmental reasons, and the use of electricity for almost all products and areas in society requires special consideration in terms of what products are made of and how they are made. If we are to move forward and develop a circular economy, we cannot stick our heads in the sand and take the electric cycle, text with our mobile phone and miculate the food without understanding the need for ore and metals for the production of batteries, steel and motors. I therefore look forward to seeing in this House the whole in and between the various industries and producers needed for us to benefit from our own resources in Sweden and create jobs and businesses in the future, not least because other countries are seeking knowledge of environmentally friendly technologies that we could provide even more.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-982	Mr President, I would like to Sweden should stick together. The common construction of society must be future-proofed. For three years, the government has amortised the public debt and invested in responsible investments in the construction of society instead of unfair tax cuts and cuts. Deficit has turned into surplus. That is why we now have room to move forward with strong investments that are necessary to strengthen the sustainable construction of society. The Government's goal is for energy production to be 100 per cent renewable. Energy policy aims to create conditions for efficient and sustainable energy use and a cost-effective Swedish energy supply with little impact on health, environment and climate and facilitate the transition to an ecologically sustainable society. In the one that I think absolutely amazing energy agreement between the government, the Moderates, the Center Party and the Kristdemok rata, the target was set 50 percent more efficient energy use by 2030 and 100 percent renewable electricity production by 2040. Work is now under way to implement the various parts of the Energy Agreement, and the Government intends to return to the Riksdag with a bill to establish the energy policy objectives. Mr President, I would like to The climate is mankind's greatest challenge. Renewable energy and energy efficiency help to solve the climate challenge. Therefore, the Government invests more than SEK 800 million in more renewable energy, more efficient energy use and more energy and climate advice. The investments consist of energy efficiency improvements in the industry. We increase the support for solar electricity by a total of SEK 525 million per year. Municipal energy and climate advice is extended and expanded. We are introducing new support for the municipalities to provide more wind power. We also provide more resources for local and regional energy and climate transition as well as safer energy supply. The expansion of wind power and solar energy continues, but we also want to make it easier for households and businesses to use energy more efficiently. Sweden has good conditions for renewable electricity production, and it is reasonable that in the long term Sweden is also a net exporter of electricity. The electricity certification system is an effective instrument for increasing the share of renewable energy. Bioenergy is the largest renewable energy type and is a central part of the Government's ambitions for renewable energy. In order to break fossil dependence, a shift in the transport sector is necessary. To achieve this objective, long-term conditions for biofuels are needed. With the proposal on the change of fuel – from fossil to renewable, this is exactly what is being delivered. It also develops an electrification strategy and proposes a bonus – the Malus system to promote a more environmentally friendly fleet of vehicles. The Government intends to analyse the benefits of biogas, how this resource is best used and how it can be given competitive conditions in both the long and short term. Hydropower plays a central role in Sweden's electricity supply, partly as a single generation power and partly as a regulatory and balancing power. In order to achieve climate and energy objectives, strong efforts are needed in research and innovation. Much of the funding in the field of energy is devoted precisely to research. This is a balanced priority. Actions will focus on a secure, sustainable and resource-efficient energy system that is increasingly cross-sectoral and multi-disciplinary. The actions will also focus on areas that have the potential for growth and exports. It is important that energy consumers are given the opportunity to strengthen their position on the energy market and reduce their own energy costs. An investigation is tasked with identifying the obstacles faced by households, smaller companies and other actors. Swedish energy policy should be based on the same three pillars as energy cooperation in the EU. An intensive effort is currently under way to establish a European Energy Union. At global level, Sweden will work towards the implementation of the Paris Agreement and Agenda 2030 and be a force in the energy transition. Next year, 2018, Sweden will host two energy summits together with the other Nordic countries and the EU. It will then be possible to demonstrate global leadership in the field of sustainable energy in order to drive forward the energy transition and implementation of the Paris Agreement. As far as the opposition is concerned, I note that the Moderates, the Liberals, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats reject several of the government's efforts. This is particularly true of the investments related to renewable energy production. Reference is made to the fact that the market will solve our common energy challenges. The Centre Centres, on the other hand, clearly show that renewable energy production opportunities are being seen, which is, of course, pleasing. Sweden's responses to renewable energy include nuclear research and a research reactor. I also note that several parties have a lower rate of price and wage increases, which should mean fewer employees or lower salaries in the energy authorities. The differences in the framework grant clearly show the different priorities: The Center has minus SEK 150 million, the Moderates minus SEK 1 235 million, the Swedish Democrats minus 905 million, the Liberals minus 900 million and the Christian Democrats minus 683 million. All in all, Mr President, I would like to endorse the Government's proposal for the allocation of appropriations in Category 21 and the appropriations relating to some of the appropriations. I also support the proposals on the investment plan and financial powers of the Swedish railway network, as well as the proposal on the amount of the electricity security fee. I demand that the motion be rejected. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to try to describe why it is so extremely important that the overall objective of energy policy is to ensure the availability of electricity and other energy in a sustainable and competitive manner compared to the world around us in the short and long term. As you probably hear, I am from Dalarna – a fantastic place to live and live. Dalarna is Sweden's third largest export county and the largest tourist county outside Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. I live in Avesta, an industrial municipality with a proud world-class steel and cardboard industry. In Avesta there is a small nice community called Horndal. Even Horndal had a significant industrial production in the past, but it has now been discontinued. All too often, these kinds of municipalities and communities are described in negative terms that I am strongly opposed to, because in these municipalities and utility communities there is a tremendous power among the inhabitants. You are used to structural changes, you are flexible and you are proud to produce, for example, stainless steel or cardboard of the best world class – materials that contribute to a better and climate-smarter world. Now something amazing is happening. In Horndal there is a hub for the main network. Swedish grids are now planning reinvestments for more than SEK 1 billion that affect Horndal – this is due to the age of the grid. This makes companies, such as Google, who are in need of more server halls, see this part of the country as very attractive to establish themselves in. Now Google is planning billion-dollar investments in little Horndal in southern Dalarna. It can be the largest industrial investment in many years. This clearly shows the importance of secure supply on electricity at competitive conditions compared to our world around us. It also shows the importance of maintaining the infrastructure we have built up in the country.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1001	Mr President, I would like to Let me start by saying that this debate and this issue is not a competition for who can spend the most of taxpayers' money or spend the most money on various things. The competition should be about who manages to get the most results for the money, i.e. who manages to reduce emissions instead of increasing, as they have done in recent years. As a result, the Government has also received quite a lot of criticism, including from the Swedish National Audit Office. It is believed that there are no analyses showing that this has any particular effect, and it is believed that the tax money could be used much more efficiently elsewhere. The Swedish National Audit Office even says that the Riksdag has not had sufficient evidence to make decisions on the issues. In view of this and of the criticism that has come from the industry – the industry that is now to be subsidised more with the government's investment in solar energy – I would like to ask Patrik Engström a question. Do the Social Democrats and the government think it is responsible to use taxpayers' money in this way?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1004	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to solar cells, the earth receives in two hours as much energy from the sun as the entire world's population uses in one year. It is important to find ways to use solar energy smartly, just as Sofia mentions, both in Sweden and in other countries. I note that the Swedish National Audit Office has submitted its report with a number of recommendations on support for solar electricity. We will have to come back to this issue. At the same time, I can see that the Swedish National Audit Office also submitted a report in 2013 on support for different energy types. They said about the same thing at the time. I will quote from what was written then, 2013: ..................................................... It is, of course, part of the Swedish National Audit Office's task to review all the time, but this was said during your reign, and it is said even now. We will, of course, come back to this issue next year. I am absolutely convinced of that. But I also note, of course, what the Swedish National Audit Office has said.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1008	Mr President, I would like to It is extremely important that we, who are responsible for distributing taxpayers' money, ensure that every tax chandelier is used as efficiently as possible, especially in environmental and climate policy. We are facing an enormous climate threat. So it is not enough just to make efforts and have a feel-good policy – where you take symbolic action and then sleep well at night – which does not have the greatest possible effect. That is precisely what we have criticised. If there are stinging criticisms not only from the Swedish National Audit Office but also from the industry itself, you must at least have a proper analysis and proper basis to justify why a certain subsidy is the most effective, given all the other things you could spend tax money on. I would like to ask the Social Democrats and the Government once again: Is the audit of the Swedish National Audit Office not trusted? Do you not share the view of the Swedish National Audit Office, or do you stand up because it is right to use tax money without having a proper basis and proper analysis as a basis for how we use it? And doesn't Patrik Engström also believe that there are better ways to use taxpayers' money when it is clear from the report that this investment is unlikely to have a greater impact than other possible investments?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1012	Mr President, I would like to As I said before, I've also seen the report. We will, of course, come back to the debate on it. Through the Energy Agreement, we agree that we must take a number of steps to improve the climate. These are pretty tough targets we've set for ourselves. I think that is new to the committee. These are tough targets that give the debate a lot of tension. The question then is: if you, like the Moderates, cut 1.2 billion on the energy budget, do you think it will be more climate-smart energy, or do you think it will have no effect? It should at least, in my view, have a quite proper effect. After all, 1.2 billion is an enormous amount of money. Somewhere it should be visible. It's not like the money just disappears, even if the Moderates don't like solar cells. In 2008 or 2009, when I was a home owner, I was very interested in investing in solar cells myself. That's not what happened to me, because there was a line. There were no resources. That, of course, can be the case. But it was actually you who introduced the PV support. We've expanded it, because we think it's a good investment. Then, of course, this type of energy, like many other new types of energy, is not cost-effective at once, but in the long run it will also be. It is part of the electricity mix we will have in the future. I am absolutely convinced of that.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1017	Mr President, I would like to We need smart instruments that promote energy efficiency, and we need environmentally smart fuels. We need the long-term rules of play that Mr Engström is talking about. We also need to promote the sensible investments that have been made. Unfortunately, however, the government's policy is completely at odds with this when it comes to shipping. The new fairway charges reduce environmental management. When Swedish shipping screams for tougher rules, preferably at international level, the government does nothing. Instead, environmental management is reduced. How can the government defend such a decision, Patrik Engström?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1019	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Rickard, for the question. That's where I can say passports. I am too new on these issues. I can't answer questions about shipping. I'm sorry, I can't answer this.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1020	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the government also says passports on these issues. They have very high climate ambitions internationally. But when we have a Swedish industry that screams for international rules – an industry that is at the forefront and would benefit from much tougher environmental requirements – the government does nothing. Instead, there are new fairway charges that reduce environmental management. The new electricity ferries between Helsingborg and Helsingör get a 76% increase, even though they have invested 300 million to go on electricity instead of fossil fuels. That is totally unacceptable! I hope that Patrik Engström will take this along and make sure that there will be a change in this with the government, so that you do not have to answer passports in the future.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1023	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Rickard. Absolutely, we will have to come back to this issue. I have a question for Mr Rickard and the Center Party on the budget. I can see, of course, that the government's budgetary framework and the Center Party's financial framework are very close, which is gratifying. But, of course, there are different profiles in the areas of expenditure. When there is so much difference between the Moderates and the Center Party in terms of the energy budget, I wonder: who is going to decide on a possible energy alliance budget – is it the Center Party that is becoming dominant on energy issues, or is it going to fall to little for the Moderates? This is an important issue, if nothing else for the electorate. There are, of course, major differences in the framework allocation for energy.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1026	The question must be considered rhetorical because Rickard Nordin has no more lines.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1027	Mr President, I would like to Not much of what the opposition parties have so far highlighted in this debate has been about the budget we have to discuss here and now. Fairway fees, for example, do not go along with this budget at all, but it is very creative to bring other issues into this debate. I hope that we will talk about the budget relating to Category 21, Energy, which we have to discuss in this debate. There is a budget line that I am pleased to see disappear from the 2018 budget. This is the grant Compensation for certain costs of decommissioning the Barsebäcksverket. It is a total of several billion SEK that has been paid in damages to the nuclear power plant owners for the two reactors that were closed in Barsebäck in 1999 and 2005. When unprofitable and dangerous nuclear power closes, it is not reasonable that it is the state and, by extension, the taxpayer who will pay for it. That is why I am pleased that the road to the 100% renewable generation target does not go through a reinstated decommissioning law, which means that damages are paid when nuclear power is shut down. It is the market that should take that responsibility. Five parties have agreed on the goal that Sweden will have 100 percent renewable electricity production by 2040. This, together with the goal of Sweden being one of the world's first fossil-free welfare nations, is the basis of the draft budget presented by the government together with the Left Party. When some say that the work should be done elsewhere, the Green Party says, on the contrary, that Sweden has an important role. By leading the way to a sustainable society, we can influence global environmental work to a far greater extent than is proportional to how many percent of the world's population lives here. The development of renewable energy in Sweden is part of a global trend. This week it was announced that Costa Rica has now been running with 100 percent renewable energy for over 300 days. Sweden has better geographical conditions than most countries for this conversion, thanks to hydropower, forest and good wind conditions. We also have companies and research at the forefront. The Government has now presented an energy budget with a total allocation of SEK 3.6 billion for next year. The largest share is the investment in energy research. Other major investments concern solar power support, energy efficiency measures and bonuses for municipalities investing in wind power. The bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats have in common that they are making major cuts in the budget. Moderates cut the most – SEK 1.2 billion. It is therefore 30% of the government's budget that is disappearing. There will be fewer solar cells, less energy efficiency and less energy research. Solar energy is the most popular type of energy among the Swedish people. During the year of the bourgeois government, sex grew with people waiting to receive the solar cell support. During the last government period, SEK 50 million per year was invested in solar cells. Now SEK 915 million will be allocated for next year and in the future. The difference between SEK 50 million and SEK 915 million per year shows the great difference in ambition. The budget also proposes to simplify the payment of investment aid. My neighbour at home should not have to fill in papers to receive the support, but instead the money should be paid out automatically. This would be a way of further lowering the thresholds for PV investments. Several improvements have been made in recent years by the government. I note that it has never been as simple and profitable to put solar cells on their roof as it is today. In addition, the budget now extends support for energy stocks. It is a very exciting technological development that people can have solar cells on the roof and store energy in a battery, which can be used when you need a supplement. The Green Party wants more people to participate in the energy transition. Last year, the PV market grew by 63 percent compared to the previous year. The Swedish Energy Agency estimates that solar electricity can account for 10 percent of our total electricity supply in 2040 and thus be a very important piece of the puzzle in the transition to a fully renewable energy system. The five parties behind the energy agreement agree on a goal that Sweden should have 50 percent more efficient energy use in 2030. To achieve this goal, more measures are needed. Energy efficiency is good for both the environment and competitiveness. A new programme for energy efficiency in the industry is now in place. Much of the energy efficiency work is about making all those smart solutions for reduced energy use. It is about better ventilation and lighting in our properties and new heating solutions or additional insulation of the wind. These measures are being taken around the country. Many small measures have a major impact overall. Therefore, the budget is important for the local climate and energy advisors, who provide help and advice to businesses and people in terms of their situation and their properties. We also have the new effort to strengthen the energy and climate resources of public actors at regional and local level. The bourgeois parties cut off this effort. The Moderates do so on the grounds that it is a diffuse title. To meet our climate and energy policy goals, everyone needs to be involved: the state, regions, municipalities, businesses and private individuals. Madam President, I would like The climate is the destiny of our time. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has just presented the official emissions statistics for Sweden. Emissions in Sweden continue to decrease. But the pace has to rise. Transport is a key area. The government has made several efforts that will be crucial for reducing transport emissions: climate change, the reduction obligation system for more biofuels in the tank and the new bonus – the Malus system for environmentally better cars. In addition, it is important to strengthen the role of biogas and a national plan for electrification of the transport sector. It takes time to reverse the Atlantic evaporator to which the transport sector's fossil dependence can be likened. In its new report, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency estimates that today's decided and planned instruments will deliver significant emission reductions. This means that the 2030 climate target is now in sight for the first time, according to the Authority. The Environmental Protection Agency's figures do not include aviation emissions. If you count aviation emissions, reading is more bleak. The flying of Swedes is increasing and thus also the emissions. The fact that the government is now introducing a flight tax, which is in place from 1 April next year, is an important step along the way. Also important is the study that is being commissioned to review the possibilities of having more aviation biofuels. Unfortunately, all the bourgeois parties want to tear up the airline tax. We remember that it has even threatened to convict ministers because it dislikes the idea of a flight tax which means that all modes of transport pay for their climate emissions. The Center Party has gone so far as to say that the first thing to do if you end up in a government in a year's time is to tear up the airline tax. To have the highest political priority to tear up a flight tax is difficult to understand, given the societal challenges facing Sweden and the world. To conclude, I would like to make a few comments on the draft budget of the bourgeois parties. There is little that unites their proposals except for some equally obedient texts, which criticise the government. Opposition parties may be willing not to present all the consequences of the cuts they make, but it is not easy to see what is disappearing in their draft budget. Perhaps the Liberals' budget is the most readable. But I find it difficult to understand why the Liberals, for example, want to remove the information platform for solar cells, which the Swedish Energy Agency is now going to develop. It is a proposal put forward by the Authority in its solar energy strategy a year ago. Both the Center Party and the Liberals are counting on a lower price and salary conversion, which affects the estimated cost to the authorities, among other things. This numbering gives the Center Party a saving of SEK 743 million for 2018, which they present as new budget money to invest in other things. I could hypothetically count on no government employee having any sick day next year, but it would not be a very credible budget. Madam President, I would like Renewable energy and energy efficiency can help solve the climate challenge. I am proud of a budget with several important investments for more wind power, solar cells, energy efficiency and measures to reduce climate emissions. I call for the government's draft budget to be approved.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1050	Madam President, I would like Energy policy concerns many areas. The climate issue is an area that we often debate. But another issue that energy policy is now addressing is security policy. The energy debate has gained enormous explosive power with Russia's planning of Nord Stream 2. This means that Russia will have an increased influence on the Baltic Sea. It also cements the dependence on natural gas for the whole of Europe. This means that the construction of Nord Stream 2 is extremely serious from both a safety and climate point of view. Here the government has acted rather passively in recent times. And not least, the S- and MP-controlled majority in Karlshamn have said yes to Russian pipes being stored there. I am extremely concerned about the developments that are taking place in Russia, where Russia is becoming more authoritarian, but also about the energy policy where there is now a risk of Nord Stream 2 being built. I would therefore like to ask Lise Nordin, on behalf of one of the governing parties: is the government for or against Nord Stream 2?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1053	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sofia Fölster, for the question! I fully agree that fossil energy is a major challenge, both for climate reasons and for security reasons. The government has preferred its opinion on visits to the Committee on Economic Affairs. One looks with concern at the plan to build Nord Stream 2. Sweden has been driving the issue of the new gas pipeline on the EU agenda. The EU also needs to be involved in this issue, which is not just about cooperation between Russia and Germany. We need to phase out fossil energy in order to meet climate targets. When the 2030 targets have been discussed, the European Commission has pointed out that increased efforts for energy efficiency and more renewable energy are crucial for us to become more self-sufficient in the EU in terms of energy. I do not really feel that the Moderates have been very clear in the discussion about how we need more renewable energy and energy efficiency to strengthen the security policy situation. Today in Sweden we have the opportunity to switch to a fully renewable energy system and stop importing both uranium and oil, on which we are currently dependent. I would say that anyone involved in security policy and energy is also responsible for responding to how we can reduce our dependence on uranium, which Sweden is currently buying from other countries. As long as we continue to have nuclear power in Sweden, we will continue to import uranium. My question back to Sofia Fölster is: How broad is the Moderates' commitment to actually phase out both the fossil energy in Sweden and Europe as well as the import of uranium? It is about setting clear ambitions for more renewable energy and energy efficiency. There I welcome as an environmental party if the Moderates become more active.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1058	Madam President, I would like I thought I asked Lise Nordin a rather specific question, namely whether the government is for or against Nord Stream 2. This question has been put time and again by the opposition and the Alliance. We're worried too. We are also pleased that the issue is on the agenda and that the government wants to discuss it in the EU. But the important thing is not only that the issue is discussed, but also what is said in those discussions. If you really want to influence the EU's position on this issue and want to influence our Nordic neighbours to help us in this debate, for example, you need to have a clear position on whether you are in favour of or against Nord Stream 2. I think it goes without saying that the government should be able to put its foot down and say: we see this as a major security threat. We are against Nord Stream 2 and will do everything in our power to prevent the construction of this gas pipeline. I have not yet heard this from the government, but I hope perhaps to get that answer in the next line, so I ask the question again: Is the government for or against a construction of Nord Stream 2?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1062	Madam President, I would like Sofia Fölster asks me about the government's opinion. Although I belong to a government party, I am a Member of Parliament. Questions about the government's opinion are wiser to put in another forum. But I can see that the government has been clear in public communication. Among other things, Foreign Minister Wallström has pointed to many of the risks the government sees with the construction of Nord Stream 2. It would provide us with additional infrastructure in Europe that will increase Russian energy policy power and the fossil gas dependency that we have today. It will also be a question of who will have the power to decide whether or not to build this cable. As I understand it, in no official context will Sweden get a question to answer yes or no to. However, we can ask many questions and express the concerns that exist and raise the issue on the EU's agenda. I have not noticed that the Moderates expressed an opinion on what you think about the cable, but that would be very welcome. Unfortunately, Sofia has no more reply, but she did not answer my question about the commitment to increasing self-sufficiency and reducing Russian energy policy power. This is also about Sweden importing uranium. Perhaps we will have to come back to this on another occasion.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1065	Madam President, I would like We are now debating what is in the energy budget and perhaps above all what is not in it. I was at a biogas conference today, and yesterday I visited a biogas plant. The crisis of Swedish biogas deepens with each passing day. Swedish biogas is rapidly being competed out of double-subsidised imported Danish biogas. In May, I asked the government a question about what is being done to avert the crisis. One debate article replied that you see the situation and take it seriously. It's been more than six months now. A budget has been presented. But nothing has happened. Meanwhile, the situation of Swedish biogas plants has worsened further. More facilities are now being closed down or experimentally sold. Other plants do not find outlets for their gas and are therefore forced to torch the gas, i.e. burn it to no avail. How long can the government let this go on? Billions of tax crowns and private investments are literally going up in smoke. The Swedish biogas and biofertilisation plant is unique and is world class. But if nothing is done in the near future, not only an excellent example of circular economy risks being eroded. It is also the case that a new branch of industry is at risk of being knocked out. When, Lise Nordin, do we get reasonable conditions for Swedish biogas? Six months ago, the government said it was aware of the problem. Yet nothing is done. There is nothing in this budget that can remedy the situation. Does that mean the government doesn't care, or how do you plan to resolve the situation?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1070	Madam President, I would like Once again, there is an issue that has no connection with Category 21 Energy, which we are debating here and now. But I'm going to try to answer this important question anyway. In the Government's budget – but in two other areas of expenditure – there are two initiatives that are important for biogas. One is the Climate Clive, which is the biggest investment in biogas that has been in a government budget. Climate change is paid out through the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and is given to those projects that have the greatest possible climate benefit per invested krona. A very large part of the money paid out to Klimatkliv has just gone to biogas, because there is a great benefit to climate change. The Center Party and the other bourgeois parties are proposing to scrap the Climate Klivet, which has been an important part of the biogas development we have seen in Sweden in recent years. The second important investment in biogas that is in the budget, but not in the area of expenditure that we are debating now, is the so-called methane reduction allowance, which is under Category 20. It is an aid granted to farmers who produce biogas from manure. Such biogas production has a dual climate benefit, since it captures manure that otherwise leaks methane and instead produces biogas that can replace fossil alternatives. The situation of biogas is very serious. It is a challenge that Sweden has chosen to invest in promoting environmental vehicles, including biogas cars, while Denmark has strong production support. This means that many tanks Danish biogas in environmental cars that have been subsidised by Sweden. Biogas is in a serious situation. This government, I think, is investing very clearly in biogas in the budget, including through climate change. I can't understand why the Center Party wants to scrap the whole investment in the Climate Scene.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1074	Madam President, I would like Lise Nordin does not seem to understand that biogas can be used in many places, not least in electricity generation, which is highly relevant to this discussion. What Lise Nordin does not seem to really connect either is that investments in new production through Climate Change will not help those who have already invested but today do not have sales. In addition, Lise Nordin seems to have missed that most people who have applied for this money will probably have to return it – I got reports about it today – because they cannot build with current prices and given the situation. The answers I receive relate to one thing that has already existed for a long time, namely methane gas reduction aid, which does not matter to the current situation, as well as to climate change, which means that we should have more producers, which certainly does not help. If these facilities had been built at all, it would have made the situation worse. In the short term, the government cannot deliver anything at all. In the long term, we definitely need to set up a study on instruments regarding what will happen after 2020 and preferably even before. We need a national strategy for biogas, which makes every use of it. It's not just a matter of electricity generation – it's a good thing. It concerns climate, self-sufficiency, safety, air quality and all the other things as well. In the short term, the Center Party proposes a new environmental car definition. We need to look at how congestion taxes can be linked to this. We need to review parking rules, environmental zones and origin marking at the pump. We need tough targets for the collection of food waste. We must ensure that we procure in a completely different way. None of this government can deliver. There are no short-term solutions. There are no long-term solutions either. Lise Nordin can only refer to the Climate Klivet, which is about investing in new facilities, just as it has done on other occasions. You don't care about those who have already invested and who will survive. But that's what matters, not fine political points about building new ones. It's easy to build monuments, but taking care of them and making sure they work is obviously much harder.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1079	Madam President, I would like I would have liked some of the ideas that the Center Party is now talking about to be included in any budget during the eight years of government. I cannot remember that there would have been any investment in biogas in the government budgets during the eight years when the Center Party was part of the government. Now we have two very important investments in the budget. One is the Climate Tree. Rickard still doesn't answer why the Center Party wants to remove the Climate Scene. These are climate investment investments of SEK 4 billion. The second is the pure production aid that the methane reduction compensation represents. There you get direct support for how much biogas you produce. Rickard Nordin says that the connection to this debate is that biogas can be used for electricity generation, but I do not think that is the opinion of the Center Party. All assessors point to the fact that biogas is most useful if it replaces fossil fuels in the transport sector. I think it is wise that the investments are directed in the direction that we use biogas where it makes the greatest possible climate benefit. In addition to climate change and methane reduction compensation, there is another important piece of the puzzle that is about fossils becoming more expensive so that biogas and other biofuels can compete. Furthermore, it is a question of raising the CO2 tax so that it becomes more expensive and thus benefits the renewable. That debate has not been very helpful in the Center Party. Perhaps we are now seeing a change.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1083	Madam President, I would like Lise Nordin began his speech by saying that there were issues that we in the alliance parties had raised that had nothing to do with the expenditure area. However, I dare say that Lise Nordin has very much managed to include a number of issues which we do not deal with in the report either, such as airline tax. Uranium is another question. This is really interesting. If the airline tax were to bring such a fantastic environmental benefit to Sweden and Swedish industry, and not least contribute to regional growth, I think we could all have said that an additional tax on each passenger would certainly be great. Who doesn't have to get that money? Now it doesn't really work that way. If only Sweden introduces the air tax, it hardly has a global climate significance. On the other hand, it will have an impact on local and regional businesses when small regional airports will not be able to operate routes with airlines interested in flying back and forth between those locations and Stockholm. How does Lise Nordin intend to resolve this issue? What is the benefit of environmental work if companies cannot develop and have employees and elected representatives who can get to work and assignments?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1087	Madam President, I would like It becomes inconsistent when Penilla Gunther, and many others in the debate, argue that on the one hand, the air tax would not make any climate benefit, but on the other hand it would be such a manslaughter team that the countryside is closed down and airports will be closed. The two claims cannot be reconciled. I am the first to say that air tax needs to be higher if it is really to mean that aviation also pays its climate emissions. I think it is important that the system is in place, which means that Sweden will have a flight tax, i.e. that aviation is involved in paying for its climate impact in the same way as rail transport, car traffic, shipping and all other modes of transport. Penilla Gunther from the Christian Democrats says that there will be no climate benefit if only Sweden participates. Once again, it is the same argument that it does not matter what we do in Sweden. I say it matters a lot what we do. Sweden can lead the way, be an example, and Sweden has a moral responsibility for its emissions. I do not believe that a Swedish person has the right to have more emissions because he happens to live in a country with fewer inhabitants. We need to look at emissions per capita. Swedes' climate emissions increase when it comes to aviation. Flying cannot continue to increase as it does now if we are to have a chance to reach a climate target. All climate scientists agree on that. There is a need for a flight tax, and there is also a need for the development of bio-air fuel. For people to be able to continue travelling, for example, it needs to be invested in high-speed trains, so that we can travel easily between our major cities and not have to fly. I would like to know what the Christian Democrats are proposing to reduce climate emissions equivalent to what is calculated if you do not want air tax. What are the options of the Christian Democrats?
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1092	Madam President, I would like This double standard that the Green Party stands for is fantastic. If the domestic aviation tax had contributed to such a fantastic climate benefit as Lise Nordin is trying to cast the Swedish people, it would surely have been okay for all of us. But the big emissions occur during the long flights when people go to Thailand or other parts of the world on vacation. What has the Green Party done with its Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lövin, who has been in the European Parliament for years? Has she only shopped for the fishermen's well-being or any other environmental area, instead of working to remove duties on biomass or at all equal, preferably improving, the conditions for renewable fuels? This very much creates more and better conditions for biofuels for aviation. We know that it is not enough – no matter how much you want to work on the issue. This is done at all airports – for both stationary vehicles and airlines. The Government's proposal provides for compensation for Gotland and Norrland. Norrland is for me an undefined area. It's very big. What does Norrland mean? Gotland is well defined geographically, but what does Norrland mean? To what extent should this compensation be made and in what way? There are a number of airports where much thought is given to this.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1095	Madam President, I would like I hope that the Christian Democrats have not missed that the air tax, which will be introduced on 1 April next year, is not only about flights taking place within Sweden's borders but also about flights to other countries. I would also like to point out that several countries are introducing airline tax. Sweden is in no way the first out. On the contrary, more and more countries believe that aviation should also pay its climate costs. For basically all climate issues it is always a better option to have global solutions where the same rules apply to all countries. But until we get there, the alternative can't be for everyone to cross their arms. On the contrary, we see that global success in climate action is, in principle, always caused by the fact that there are countries that are leading the way. The introduction of a flight tax in Sweden is therefore a reasonable step. It is a perfectly reasonable principle that aviation also pays for its climate emissions. If the Christian Democrats think that this level of aviation tax gives too little benefit to climate change, I would like to look forward to a discussion on how high the tax should be in order to provide a climate benefit. I take it Penilla Gunther is wondering what the Green Party and Isabella Lövin have done in the past on global climate issues. I'd say a lot. Sweden, through this government, has been a driving force in the international climate agreements and has played a decisive role. We have worked intensively to tighten up the EU ETS, which has now brought about major changes and raised the price of carbon dioxide in Europe as well. And we have pushed for the EU to set higher targets for renewable energy, climate and energy efficiency in the EU. We can't just look at Sweden or look globally. We have to work both ways. It is both about air tax in Sweden – an important symbol issue – and about continuing to work internationally. We assume that more countries will follow if Sweden leads the way.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1101	Madam President, I would like I could make a ten-minute speech just on the basis of my smudge notes from when I have listened, but I will try to stick to what I intend to say. I shall begin by reflecting on the last speech on air tax. Of course, I agree with Lise Nordin that it would be crazy if the global world were not to sit down and say that it is clear that aviation should pay for the climate aspect. That would be crazy if I didn't. That it would be a big deal with 60 kroner on a domestic ticket I don't understand. Expenses 21 Energy was what I was going to start with. The Left Party has negotiated budget after budget with the Red Green Government – as well as the budget for 2018 and Category 21 Energy. However, I am not going to touch on the results report, as it stands at the beginning of the report, on a large scale. I just have to mention what some have been discussing with the support for solar power and that the Swedish National Audit Office in its recent review has some questions regarding the design. I agree with the Swedish National Audit Office's conclusion that perhaps one should look at the design of the support so that maximum benefit can be obtained for the support money. I do not mean that you should not give support, but you might be able to file on the design to get the most benefit from the money. We in the Left Party are relatively satisfied with the allocation of funding. I will not lift or lower any entry entries, even with my own thoughts or thoughts. As far as other parties' proposals for funding are concerned, I note that it is the Centre Party that is closest to our proposal and that of the government. The difference is almost cosmetic. However, as far as the other parties' proposals are concerned, the difference is clear, in order to try a little fun language in the context. Very well, Madam President. We in the Left Party have a clear position in our view of our future energy supply: it should be renewable and cost-effective but at the same time safe in both quality and security of supply. There are certainly many different ways to arrive at a secure energy supply that gives as little impact on the climate and the environment as possible, and we have now come up with a distribution, together with the current government, that will lead to what I have just listed as important elements in order to get there in the long term. I am, of course, pleased that the committee takes note of Gotland's energy supply and points out that Sweden should have security of energy supply throughout the country with good conditions for further expansion of renewable energy. Much of the energy policy in which the government lands has, of course, borne the energy agreement concluded with the Moderates, the Center, the Christian Democrats and the government parties. Of course, the fact that the Left Party is not part of this agreement has to do with nuclear power. The Left Party is today the only parliamentary party that clearly says that nuclear power should not be part of the energy solution in the future. I sometimes bax when I hear how the Green Party interprets the settlement and compares with how the Moderates interpret it. Very well, Madam President. It is not my job to become a dispute-solving tribunal for interpretations of the energy settlement. But when I read about research in nuclear technology and lead-cooled fourth generation reactor in Sweden, at least I am not convinced of the future scenarios that are painted as consequences of the agreement. Those who live and experience the years after 2040 will then give grades to today's politicians and assess which interpretation was closest to the truth in the settlement. We in Sweden are fortunate that we have a large and powerful energy company that is owned by all of us in common, namely Vattenfall, and that we have our expanded rivers that can parry the volatile renewable energies that are growing more and more – this thanks to the electricity certification solution, which has served the purpose well. But imagine in the situation that today we would seek permission to expand a large river system, I could say a little cautiously: Good luck! It could never be done. Therefore, it would mean a huge amount if Vattenfall were to be pressured by the government to look at the dry riverbed in Lilla Lule River in Vuollerim to at least a little humbly give back some water environment to Jokkmokk municipality. We know that major interventions in these extended river systems will not be carried out in such a way as to recreate something that has been, except in the case of Vuollerim to which I refer. Madam President, I would like I started just over the week ago to pick up something from my political opponents at the end of my speech. Then I lifted an individual motion from an M-labeled Member of Parliament who I thought had a good idea. In fact, I am going to afford that again – to mention a motion in a motion submitted on the matter. This is just to show good debate and my way of taking the good ideas of opponents seriously. Now I see that the Member concerned is not here, so it will be a bit of an anticlimax, but it is about the hydrogen strategy. It is clear that hydrogen is and will be interesting from many aspects in the future. However, the Swedish Energy Agency has gone in and financed projects where hydrogen is intended to replace coal and coke in the Swedish steel industry, so unfortunately the exerciser enters open doors. But the idea of a strategy is well meant, I imagine. In the rest of the exercise I only find typical scare propaganda. Having said that, I naturally support the proposal in report NU 3 and the allocation for category 21 Energy.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1119	Madam President, I would like Birger Lahti and I don't always have very different opinions – strangely enough, some may think, but that's the way it is. In this case, Birger, I still have to ask you a question. If you agree that a flight tax would be good, I must ask the question: How do you travel? I guess every week you fly to work at Parliament and home again. Tell them the airline tax will come true, which it seems to be. It is true that up in the north – this large, undefined area of the government – there are a number of regional airports. They are owned by municipalities, regions, county councils or private owners who do not have state aid and who do not benefit from the same aid as Swedavia, for example. It is not that air routes are run by non-profit forces or by subsidies in any case, but it requires some kind of commercial thought – a business, a business – that makes you have enough passengers so that it pays to operate these routes. It has not occurred to Birger Lahti that if airlines do not have enough passengers because the airline tax contributes to a reduction in the number, could this reduce their interest in flying in Norrland, this large area? I would also like to know how Birger Lahti, who himself comes from the area, interprets the geographical area of Norrland in terms of compensation for the air tax to that particular area.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1126	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Penilla, for the question! I'm glad you're setting it, because then we'll have some perspective on what we're talking about. I don't think anyone who flies from my airport stops flying because there's a 60-dollar mark-up. No one, I think, stops buying a ticket when there's a payoff of 60 kroner. However, I believe that the airport from which I fly may be affected by the exceptions that have been looked at. First of all, there are no alternatives. It's true, as you say-- I fly every week, and sometimes I actually feel bad when I see that there are few flying and I know how expensive the procurement is as the government has done. But I can sometimes comfort myself that there are no alternatives. I don't have any trains or anything else I could use. What I am glad about is that the Left Party in the negotiations has pushed for the money rolling in from the airline tax to be invested in rail. Then there will be effects in the right way on the climate and the environment. I do not know if we will succeed, but that is something that we are pushing for because it would be good to do with that money. It has been discussed at some point that it would be better to invest instead in biofuels for aviation. But a flight tax does not rule out those pieces. I agree a little bit with what Lise said: we are not the only ones looking at airline tax. But I know that the more countries that use some kind of incentive to make flights pay for their emissions, the more they catch up. I am pleased that Sweden is finally making this decision, because no one stops flying from my airport because of a 60 SEK higher fare.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1132	Madam President, I would like No, it may be that as a passenger or a passenger who has his travels paid for by the public does not think about the cost that is charged on the ticket, but for those who travel in the private or who have assignments for associations, organisations or companies and need to go back and forth to Stockholm over the day, for example, it costs something extra. And every extra crown can be quite a lot of money in the end if you travel enough. It is also a question of which routes are considered profitable to operate at certain airports. Perhaps it is not about the will of Birger Lahti and his comrades to fly from there and there, but it is about the fact that there may simply be no airline interested in using that route for their flights. We can learn lessons from Norway, where the introduction of air tax has been tried. There, at least one airport has been shut down so far because the airlines chose to leave it. The question was not with the passengers, but with the airlines, who did not consider it sufficiently profitable. My question also remains with Birger Lahti, because I did not receive an answer from Lise Nordin: what is the compensation to be paid? What area and which airports are to benefit from this compensation? If you say that Norrland is a huge area and there are a number of airports, how can this be done? You in the Left Party, which negotiates the budget with the government, how have you agreed on this?
i-Lmf2cVgVuJSqD4FyGxmJuo	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Penilla Gunther, for the debate. You won't be able to answer when I ask you a question. I can only say that you say that the SEK 60 may not mean anything when someone else pays the ticket, but as I said, I am convinced that there is no one who will visit anyone or make a day trip to Stockholm who will not take the ticket unless there is another option. No one stops flying because of 60 crowns. I have not been on the negotiating group, so I do not know how to discuss or what airports this applies to. Unfortunately, I cannot answer that. But if I had had the chance, I would have asked you: What is your medicine for aviation to contribute something about emissions? What kind of suggestion would you have? At least this is something that clearly contributes more money to the public purse that we can invest in rail or something else. The money's not wasted. It will be wrong if you exclude aviation as a sacred zone and say: No, they should not contribute anything in terms of climate emissions. That would be wrong, I think. Unfortunately, you cannot answer when I say: What is your response to climate compensation from aviation? At least this is the closest thing I can think of today. Thank you for asking.
i-YVoH51jNfaeTwNcn3cyzqz	Madam President, I would like In this report, we are dealing with the Government's letter 2016/ 17:29, that is, the Government's strategy for the national work on human rights and follow-up movements on the letter and some motions from the general exercise period 2015, 2016 and 2017. The strategy addresses, among other things, the issue of the establishment of an independent human rights institution in accordance with the Paris principles in Sweden. Most parties in the committee fully agree that an institution is needed, and that is something that has been discussed for a long time. Several parties have exercised the matter many times. The Left Party has for several years written motions demanding such an institution. We have also written that we think it should be placed with the Ombudsman for Justice. The last exercise we had on an institution was now in connection with this letter. That it should be linked to the Ombudsman for Justice has been obvious to quite a few. We have found that there is a reasonable link between the work of the Ombudsman for Justice today and the principles contained in the Paris principles. An important reason has also been that it is a way of guaranteeing the independence of the institution. In connection with the committee's examination of the letter, the committee asked an investigator to analyse whether it would be appropriate and useful to link it to the Ombudsman for Justice and, if so, how it would be done. The investigator saw several problems with the design and also pointed out that it was possible to secure independence in other ways. In Sweden we have a system where almost all the authorities are linked to the Government Office, and at the same time the authorities are very independent. The possibility of making a different structure for an MR institution, for example linking it with other existing authorities, such as the Discrimination Ombudsman, the Children's Ombudsman and so on, is not sufficiently investigated. The committee agrees that an investigation should be carried out as a matter of urgency in order to look at other ways. The committee therefore agrees on an announcement to the government. I am leaving this now because I assume that others will talk about it, and the Left Party has two reservations in the report that I now intend to talk about instead. The letter points out that it is important that those working with particularly vulnerable groups have knowledge of human rights and the obligations they impose on public activities. The University Chancellor's Office has therefore, on behalf of the Government, mapped out how issues of human rights and men's violence against women and children are taken into account in training courses for midwives, preschool teachers, lawyers, doctors, psychotherapists, nurses and other professions that come into contact with particularly vulnerable groups. The survey has shown that the teaching of human rights generally works well, but that the teaching of men's violence against women and children needs to be developed in order for the students to gain the knowledge they need to be able to meet violent people in a good way in their future profession. The government states that it will follow developments, but the Left Party's view is that it is not enough to sit next to and watch and follow developments. Our view is that we should come back with proposals for action. The second reservation is that the Left Party believes that it is time for Sweden to ratify ILO Convention 169 on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. The current government has tightened up work on the rights of the Sami people and talks much more about the ILO 169 than the previous government has done. However, we believe that more is needed than talk and that it is actually being made to come back with ratification of the Convention. The budget we have negotiated with the government allocates more money to the society, and the work on a consultation system is progressing. This was something we discussed just a few days ago in this House. It is good that this work is being done, but our view is, as I said, that we must also proceed with the ratification of the ILO 169. The government should come back with this as soon as possible, which is why I am in favour of reservation 2.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1150	Madam President, I would like Eleanor Roosevelt said: where do public rights begin? In small places, near the home — so small and so close that they cannot be discerned on world maps. They are, nevertheless, the existence of that individual, his or her farm or office. These are the places where every man, woman and child seeks justice, equal opportunities, equal value without discrimination. If these rights do not matter there, they have little or no meaning anywhere. Unless people uphold these rights in their immediate surroundings, we will seek them in vain in the wider context. Eleanor Roosevelt was the person who ensured that these rights were written down for everyone in the world and is the basis of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We could say so much about this. We are now dealing with the Constitutional Committee's report A strategy for work on human rights in Sweden. First of all, I would like to thank civil society organisations for their know-how, commitment and input to us in the KU on these issues. We have read several letters and also invited to a meeting with several of the MR organisations during the autumn. We Social Democrats believe that it is of the utmost importance to stand up for the international conventions on human rights in which Sweden is committed to ensuring that these commitments are fulfilled in the country. But the protection of human rights must also take place within the framework of constitutional order. The Paris principles were adopted in 1993 and, in conclusion, it can be said that the starting point of the Paris principles for a human rights institution should be to promote, protect and monitor. There are several state investigations and letters from the government concerning an institution for this purpose. The will is therefore good, but the question has been much more complex than we thought. We have received international criticism that we do not yet have an institution in accordance with the Paris principles. Despite the fact that we already have several authorities such as the Ombudsman for Justice, the Ombudsman for Discrimination, the Ombudsman for Children, the Living History Forum and the Authority for Participation with others that in various ways address the Paris principles, we do not have an institution that fully meets the requirements for A status in the Paris principles. Therefore, we must strive to live up to them and ensure that Sweden has a Swedish institution for human rights according to these principles. The Constitutional Committee sees the importance of the mission and role of such an institution being clear and fit into the Swedish constitutional order. The question of a Swedish human rights institution may seem to have been drawn in the long way, and now it is being passed on again. Why has it taken so long? The question of a Swedish institution is simply very important. The Constitutional Committee has dealt with the issue with great seriosity through contacts with civil society organisations and through a study visit to investigate the Finnish model. Afterwards, Hans-Hans-Gunnar Axberger received an investigation commission from the KU. In June this year the report JO was presented as IMR? In this perspective, KU's overall assessment is to return the matter to the government. In the report, we say that the government must move forward with the matter as a matter of urgency and that it is very important to involve civil society organisations. That must be a priority for the government in its further work. Both the Constitutional Committee and civil society organisations are clear that a Swedish institution for human rights needs to be designed so that independence is truly secured. These may include specific processes for appointing and dismissing managers, etc. With such a structure, the Riksdag and the Constitutional Committee can continue to play a role.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1158	Madam President, I would like We debate the Government's letter 2016/ 17:29 The Government's strategy for the national work on human rights. The committee proposes that the letter be added to the file and that the government be notified of the question of a national human rights institution. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report. Madam President, I would like Human rights and freedoms state that all people are born free and equal in terms of value and rights. Our human rights and freedoms include freedom of opinion, such as freedom of expression and assembly, physical integrity, freedom of movement, the rule of law, protection against discrimination and property protection. Madam President, I would like Sweden has come a long way in terms of safeguarding human rights and freedoms and signed early on both the European Convention and the UN Declaration of Human Rights. The form of government provides that no law or other provision may be made in breach of the ECHR. The position of the Convention can be described as superior Swedish law but subordinate to the Swedish constitutions. Through the 2nd chapter of the government form. Our basic law also directly protects a range of human rights and freedoms. The committee's report deals with the issue of a national human rights institution. To begin with, like Eva-Lena Gustavsson, I would like to thank civil society for its commitment and contributions. We have been preparing the issue for a long time and have taken note of Professor Hans-Gunnar-Gunnar Axberger's report. Human rights institutions are governed by the Paris principles, which are not binding rules of international law. The Paris principles should be further analysed, and consideration should be given to and clarification of the requirements that are actually made in accordance with the principles. Sweden should strive to live up to the Paris principles and ensure that Sweden has an institution for human rights according to these principles. However, it is important that the mission and role of such an institution are clear and fit into the Swedish constitutional order. Madam President, I would like We believe that a Swedish institution for human rights should not be established as a new authority during the Riksdag or be linked to the Ombudsman for Justice. The main rule with regard to public authorities is that they are subject to the government. The Riksdag and its administration are not designed to control and support authorities. That the institution should be under Parliament is not something that the principles of Paris require either. One argument that has been put forward for a human rights institution to be associated with the Riksdag is independence. The independence or independence of an activity can be ensured by other means. As Eva-Lena Gustavsson mentioned, it may be a decision on appointment and dismissal, but also a decision on appropriations. Consideration should be given to the extent to which the existing system of, for example, the Ombudsman for Justice, the Ombudsman for Discrimination and the Ombudsman for Children together complies with the Paris principles. It should also be analysed whether a human rights institution can be managed within the framework of the existing government structure. The committee believes that the government should urgently re-examine the issue of a new national human rights institution in Sweden. If the government, through our committee, intends to involve the Riksdag, we are prepared to participate in the further preparation in an appropriate form. It is important to continue to make use of the knowledge and perspectives of civil society. Madam President, I would like Since our proposal is to allow the government to investigate the issue of a national human rights institution, we have refrained from too many formal contributions. However, we Moderates have written in a motion, 2015/ 16:2502, that the mission to the new institution should include preventing and counteracting violations of other individuals' human rights and freedoms. There has been a series of worrying descriptions of how individuals are hindered in their lives by other individuals or groups of individuals. On 20 November 2001, 25-year-old Uppsalabon Fadime Sahindal gave a speech here in the Riksdag about how difficult it was to balance family demands and expectations with Swedish society, which stands for completely different values and views. Two months later, she was killed by her own father. The speech and the tragic murder were eye-openers for many. To this day, women's, LGBTQ's and other people's ability to exercise their human rights and freedoms is still limited. It is about what is commonly called honorary repression and violence, and which can include control of dress, virginity checks and forced and child marriages. Another example where individuals are restricted by other individuals is online hatred and threats and violence against journalist editorials. The number of cases of threats to these is high, according to studies by the publishers and the Journalists' Association, for example. The Department of Human Rights, in cooperation with authorities and civil society, should identify these types of threats to human rights, work to ensure that the values that underpin human rights are better anchored in more and in different ways supporting those who want to live in freedom and security – in accordance with their human rights and freedoms.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1173	Madam President, I would like We are now debating report KU6 A strategy for work on human rights in Sweden. The proposal is to add to the document the Government's strategy for the national work on human rights. At the same time, the committee proposes that the government re-examine and urgently investigate the issue of a national human rights institution. I would first like to say that I support the committee's proposal and reject the motions. Already in the 2016 Budget Bill, we received a new goal regarding Sweden's commitments on human rights, namely that the goal of human rights policy would be to ensure full respect for Sweden's international commitments on human rights. Now that the government is writing, it also presents the coherent structure and talks about, among other things, the existence of a strong legal and institutional protection of human rights. It is proposed that an institution be placed under the parliament. In addition, it presents a coordinated and systematic work on human rights in public activities and strongly supports the work on human rights in civil society and business. As far as the human rights institution is concerned, several speakers here have said that this is an issue that we are passionate about widely, through most parties. It is an issue that has been investigated by previous governments in 2010 and 2011. The investigations have also, as is done in the Government's letter, concluded that it should be under the parliamentary human rights authority. It has been seen as a prerequisite for us to guarantee the independence that is needed in accordance with the Paris principles. We in the KU therefore attacked the preparation in the usual thorough KU way. Among other things, we went to Helsinki and visited the Finnish JO, where the country's human rights authority is located. Like many others, that is where we thought we would place this institution. Then we set up our own investigation – at the rofessor Hans-Gunnar-Gunnar Axberger was commissioned to investigate the issue of a new human rights authority during the Riksdag, and especially during the JO. However, the investigator came back and advised against setting up the new authority under the JO, for a number of reasons. The main argument was that the tasks of the new authority would differ considerably from those of the JO today. The investigator also looked at setting up a new authority during the Riksdag but also advised against it. Instead, the investigator opened up to look at the authorities under the government, such as the Discrimination Ombudsman, the Children's Ombudsman or any other authority, such as the Equality Authority. Another suggestion was to take representatives from some of the ombudsmen and get together in a group. The investigator pointed out that some changes might have to be made, such as the hiring and dismissal of ombudsmen. It might also be necessary to legislate in order to protect a future human rights authority from the potential clout of future governments or to want to regulate and entrust tasks in detail – all of this in order to guarantee independence. This led us in the KU to conclude that it is probably best to send the question back to the government, and we do so in broad and broad agreement. We also point out how important it is for civil society to be given the opportunity to influence the whole process the government is carrying out, because, as several previous speakers have said, there has been invaluable input from civil society. With that, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1182	Madam President, I would like Since last autumn, we in the Constitutional Committee have been working on the question of how we could create a national authority for human rights work during the Riksdag. KU's work on this has been based on the Government's letter 2016/ 17:29 The Government's strategy for the national work on human rights. In January this year, the Constitutional Committee commissioned Professor Hans-Gunnar-Gunnar Axberger to consider and analyse whether such a human rights organisation could be part of the Parliamentary Ombudsmen, JO. If so, it could be an organisation working in the same way as in Finland. In September 2016, the Constitutional Committee had visited the Parliamentary Ombudsman in Finland and Finland's national human rights organisation and had already found that the solution that existed in Finland was worth investigating. I myself found the clear link between civil society associations and human rights organisations and the national human rights organisation that existed in Finland important and interesting. The Center Party considers it very important to create a close link with civil society organisations also in Sweden when we create the national Swedish organisation for human rights. Hans-Gunnar-Gunnar Axberger presented the report to the KU that we had ordered in June. The report has considered three options for organising a Human Rights Delegation at the JO Office. The Constitutional Committee has considered the JO-options but also an option with a completely new human rights authority during the Riksdag. Axberger's conclusion was that creating a human rights organisation within the JO office would pose considerable difficulties. There are organisational and practical problems, but also, as I see it, concerns that the role of the JO in judicial review of the country's authorities could be adversely affected by the more politically oriented work on human rights. During the preparation of this case, the KU received a number of letters from the network of a Swedish human rights institution, and we were a number of KU members who met representatives of this network in October this year. Experience from both Sweden and other countries shows that it is urgent that we have a lively debate and, through both civil society organisations and the state, a monitoring of compliance with people's constitutional rights to freedom and security. Society must also ensure that people are not discriminated against. In a lot of countries, including in Europe, it is the state and its political leadership that, through courts, prosecutors and police, threatens and prevents people's freedom and security. This is the case in several nationalistically governed countries in Europe – unfortunately. It is important that we in Sweden create a national institution for human rights that is independent of the country's political leadership, and also considerations of how independence can be created have therefore been part of the JO's preparatory work for the creation of our human rights institution. The Constitutional Committee comes to the same conclusion as the investigator Hans-Gunnar-Gunnar Axberger – it would be difficult to create a Swedish organisation for human rights in the Ombudsmen of Justice. So the Finnish model we had did not stand out. When it comes to the alternative of a new authority within the Riksdag, we in the KU have concluded that the organisation of the Riksdag is not well suited to governing authorities and institutions. We note that there is extensive work under way in a number of government agencies to promote and uphold human rights, both in Sweden and, in part, in other countries. We note that Swedish authorities have a comparatively large degree of independence. This independence can be further strengthened by the forms of appointment of managers. The fact that a new special human rights authority is not to be created has been made clear to the government a number of consultation bodies at an earlier stage. I would like to emphasise that we do not want a new special authority to be created – this can be solved otherwise. The Ombudsman for Discrimination, who now represents Sweden internationally in terms of human rights, in accordance with the Paris principles, should, as I see it, be able to be strengthened with certain resources that are now available within other authorities. An institution can then be created which fully corresponds to what is required to become an institution with an A-status for human rights under the Paris principles. In addition, what I see also needs to be created a Council of representatives of civil society organisations in the field of human rights. Madam President, I would like With these contributions, I would like to call for the proposal in the Constitutional Committee's report to be approved and therefore to submit to the Government the question of creating a Swedish organisation for human rights.
i-7e39fb6e4116aaa1-1195	Madam President, I would like After World War II, the nations gathered together to say: never again! Human dignity had been trampled in the dirt. Millions and millions of lives had been lost. What human rights had been trampled on? The need to form the new organization of the United Nations was felt. Where the League of Nations had failed to monitor human rights, it could together stand up for what everyone agreed on is basic human rights. It is true, as has been said before – Eleanor Roosevelt was one of those who created the conditions for human rights being formulated in the UN Charter. Work to clarify what human rights are has continued. Normally, when a government ratifys a UN convention, it must then be implemented in Swedish law. This is happening here in Parliament, where we as parliamentarians are responsible. We have a responsibility to try it out and ensure that it enters Swedish law in the thorough manner that our Constitution acknowledges and prescribes. But conventions do not become law automatically. Human rights are something that is extremely important to watch. It is therefore for the KU to take responsibility in Parliament for the fact that respect for human rights is enshrined in our constitutions, as is the case, and that the law is complied with. Over and over again, the Christian Democrats and other parties have been exercising that the monitoring of human rights should be strengthened. This is done not least through civil society organisations on human rights issues. We have had talks with them on this issue as well. We have listened to what they have had to say and how they have wanted it organised, and we have drawn conclusions from it. The Constitutional Committee wants the Riksdag to address an announcement to the Government that the Government will investigate the issue of a national institution for human rights in Sweden. We base this on the report of Professor Hans-Gunnar-Gunnar Axberger that we have heard about earlier in the debate. We have weighed this issue well, and we believe that this is the best way forward. The aim, as I said, is for this work to ensure full respect for Sweden's international commitments on human rights. There is a need for Swedish institutional protection of human rights in addition to what Parliament and the KU offer. We note that there is strong support for the work on human rights within civil society. We assume that civil society should play an important role in monitoring these issues. Madam President, I therefore support the proposal contained in the KU6 report and, therefore, the proposal for a declaration.
