i-d956712ddbb6aef5-3	Mr President, I would like to Roger Hedlund has asked Minister for Housing and Digitalization Peter Eriksson if he and the government intend to do something about the problems described by the police in their report Exposed areas – social risks, collective abilities and unwanted effects, and if so, what. The work in the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the question. The fact that there are problems in some residential areas is not a new issue for the government. In July, the government presented a long-term reform programme to reduce segregation in the country. The aim is to lift residential areas to which the Police Authority refers in its report. The reform programme includes a series of measures aiming at long-term solutions to segregation and its mechanisms, such as more jobs, better schooling, reduced housing segregation and increased support for civil society. The programme also includes measures in the field of mine and the Political Authority, which are to combat crime and increase security. We're going to review the penalties for attacks on blue light personnel. We have contributed over SEK 2 billion to the Police Agency for the next few years. This means, among other things, more resources for police cooperation with other authorities to tackle organised crime in the most vulnerable areas. A year ago, the government presented a concerted effort against organised crime, which brought forward a series of long-term measures. This operation has resulted in some thirty amendments and entry into force this year. Among other things, attempts, preparation and conspiracy to commit serious and particularly serious weapons crimes have been criminalised; leaders of criminal networks can now be brought to justice because they have not prevented serious crimes known to them and the possibility of confiscating criminal profits has been increased. The Government also wants to create better conditions for structured crime prevention across the country at both local and regional as well as national level. A focus on crime prevention has therefore been launched. In addition, the Government will set up a National Coordinator for Crime Prevention and has provided funds for the establishment of Regional Crime Prevention Coordinators at the County Administrative Boards. The government has therefore taken a series of measures to create good living conditions and a safer society for all, regardless of where you live.
i-d956712ddbb6aef5-9	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anders Ygeman, for your answer to my interpellation! It is based on the police report which is now about a year old and which describes a situation in 53 vulnerable areas in Sweden where there is an open drug trafficking and gang crime, and where there is a fear among citizens to report crimes. There is also an expanded religious extremism. And many times a parallel structure of society is being built up, where sometimes you go outside the social framework when you are going to solve conflicts or if you are in need of money, housing or the like. So we see a serious situation in very many areas of Sweden today. And it is not only in the big cities that this development exists, but also in many areas such as Växjö, Borlänge, Linköping, Eskilstuna, Uppsala and Örebro. This has, of course, come about for a number of reasons. Immigration is one. Another reason is the EBO Act, which means that those who receive a residence permit have the opportunity to settle wherever they want in Sweden. This has increased overcrowding, the black trade in apartments and the possibility for people to rent a mattress to have an apartment to live in. Of course, this is also due to high unemployment in Sweden and the absence of police officers in these areas. This absence is due to the fact that the areas are difficult for police officers, and the police find it difficult to be present there at all without, at the same time, being a threat to both the police and the environment. There are several reasons why it looks like this in Sweden today. Measures to combat this are, of course, a real break for asylum seekers to Sweden. The EBO law must be demolished, and there must be preventive work. Some of these issues have been raised by the government. The judiciary needs increased resources and opportunities, but an action plan is also needed to identify the areas and meet the needs to prevent further areas being extended to vulnerable areas identified by the police. There are many similar areas in Sweden that have a structure that could create a future vulnerable area. That is why it is important for us today to create the conditions for us not to have more areas that are exposed and for the police to be able to act in the areas that are currently identified. As Anders Ygeman tells us today, the government has presented a reform programme for the reduction of segregation. One of the most important of the five points that the police point to in their report is that the police have problems in being present in these areas. I do not see the problem of being present in the reform programme presented by the government. That is also the focus of my interpellation. It may not be so clear in my question, but if you read the bread text, the aim is to know how the police will be better able to be present in these areas in order to be in place and also to create security – even a perceived security – for the citizens.
i-d956712ddbb6aef5-17	Mr President, I would like to There are absolutely areas that have the problems that Roger Hedlund expresses. To be honest, however, it has to be said that in the police report, 14 areas are called particularly vulnerable areas. If you increase to 53, it's about another problem picture. You can't put them on an equal footing. Roger Hedlund confuses the concepts a little. Together with the police, I have been in all 14 particularly vulnerable areas and have met citizens and police to discuss what can be done. Long-term, of course, it is a question of breaking social development. For eight years we in Sweden had rising unemployment, falling school scores and growing gaps. It is therefore gratifying that school results are now beginning to turn around. In both Timss and PISA, the Swedish school results increase. Upper secondary school qualifications are turning around. For the first time in many years, more qualified for high school. Unemployment is the lowest in many years. I believe that youth unemployment in Sweden is now the lowest in 13 years. The number of notice is at least a in ten years. Sweden has the highest employment rate ever measured in any EU country. However, this only helps in the long term. In the short term, we see that people in these areas are insecure and that the people who live there and who go to their jobs every day are insecure than other people in other areas. That is why the presence of the police in these areas needs to be strengthened. We need more visible police officers and more police who solve crimes and mobilise the good forces in these areas. In the near future, police numbers for police presence will be released. I am quite convinced that Roger Hedlund and others will see that the presence of the police in these socially vulnerable areas has increased over the past year. There's a lot more cops there. The police are also making structural investments. For example, a new police station is being built in Rinkeby for over 200 police employees. In Botkyrka south of Stockholm, police presence has more than doubled. In Södertälje, development has been broken, and many organized criminals have been put behind bars. But it is also about the tools available to the police and the rest of the judiciary to break the trend. In Vivalla, Örebro, an in-depth cooperation between the authorities has been launched, which simply means that all the authorities in the area disturb the criminals and make it much more difficult to be a criminal and very much easier to be law-abiding. It is a little too early for me today to present in this House the results of this pilot project in Vivalla, but within a few months we will probably be able to have such results, and what I have seen so far is very positive. In conclusion, we are making the investments in the future that were not made before, when instead we chose to reduce the tax. We are strengthening the presence of the police and strengthening the legislation. All this we do in good faith to ensure that the criminal elements in these areas are put behind bars and that the law-abiding hard-working citizens in these areas are able to see their area develop positively. That's the purpose.
i-d956712ddbb6aef5-24	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I mentioned several factors that affect the situation that has arisen in these vulnerable areas. This applies to unemployment, household finances and the justice system, but it is particularly true of housing policy. I mentioned overcrowding as an example. It is so large that it often creates a situation where you don't even know who lives as neighbors in your staircase. Black contracts make it possible for people no longer to recognize their neighbors. But housing policy has an impact in several areas. The design of the million-dollar programmes, which are often among the vulnerable areas described in the report, was based on a plan called the SCAFT 4 plan. It was based on having an inner green zone inside the housetops of the couple and creating a car-free zone there, so that parking lots, preschools, schools, centres and other similar places where people move outside the residential area to protect children from car traffic, among other things. This has meant that people who do not live there today do not get the natural movement in the residential areas, so it is difficult for the police to act, for example, as a civilian scout, because they quickly identify new people in the area. It is also the case that this time's area planning has not enabled the police to have the same retreats as in other areas. One can easily block the roads where the police go in and in this way more easily expose the police to stoning and large crowds who attack the police who act in the area. This has made it more difficult for the police to act naturally in these areas and to naturally engage in, for example, civilian reconnaissance there. The police presence in particular is also something that is really pointed out in this report as one of the five most important points in order to tackle the problem in these vulnerable areas. On the Swedish Democrats' side, we have raised SEK 250 million in housing policy in Category 18 precisely so that the municipalities can work with area planning to enable the police to act more naturally in these areas. It could be about creating protection over bridges where stone stones against bluelight personnel have taken place, rebuilding the areas in such a way that there are easier retreats, ensuring that there are opportunities for the police to act both officially and with civilian scouts, or creating a mobility in these areas that makes it less easy to identify the police when you are there. That is what my interpellation was primarily about, and that is why I put it to Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson. However, I am happy to receive the answers from Minister of Home Affairs Anders Ygeman regarding housing policy issues and the presence of the police in these vulnerable areas. My question is simply how the government works when it comes to the presence of the police on the basis of the report which describes that there are problems to be present because there are no retreats and that there is no possibility of natural civilian reconnaissance in these areas.
i-d956712ddbb6aef5-30	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we work with housing companies around the country, and that is one of the points of the crime prevention programme. You should be able to develop some of these things. Then I do not think that we should exaggerate the importance of spatial planning for the structure of the areas. It is true that some of these areas have a structure that makes it more difficult for the police. But it is above all the social structure of the area, with poverty, overcrowding and crime, that is the main problem. That's the one we're gonna break, maybe rather than find shrubs to hide under for cops. Something that should please Roger Hedlund is that we have now been disturbed take the housing construction in 10 – 15 years. This is perhaps even the largest housing building since the days of the million-dollar programme in Sweden. This means, of course, that we can reduce overcrowding, give people first-hand contracts and break the development with black contracts and overcrowding that characterizes too many areas in Sweden. There are many examples around Sweden to look at for Roger Hedlund when it comes to housing companies, municipalities and rescue services working together to break development. Skarpnäck and Bagarmossen in Stockholm is an example. In 2009, 55 per cent of the population were worried about going out on the street. The cut in Stockholm is 9 percent. Today they are down to 8% insecure residents thanks to active work together. One question that needs to be addressed to Roger Hedlund is whether he believes that the police's ability to use civilian reconnaissance resources and the ability to scout in all areas of Sweden requires the police to represent a cross section of the population. So far, the Swedish Democrats have opposed any plans to increase the diversity of Swedish police and seen no value in the fact that the police correspond to the population average and that the whole of Sweden can recognize itself in the Swedish police force. Doesn't Roger Hedlund think it's a more important thing to get good civilian reconnaissance than to rebuild the houses?
i-d956712ddbb6aef5-35	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again for your answer. I would have liked to hear a more respectful tone from the Home Secretary. He describes the Swedish Democrats' proposal that the police should be able to hide in bushes. Of course not. We are not going to build gardens for 250 million in the affected areas, if the Minister thought so. These efforts are about pointing out what the police show as one of the five most important points, namely the police presence. The police often signal that you cannot really be present in these areas unless you have extra input the times you do. Then it becomes very special every time you attend. When the police themselves no longer dare to stay in these areas in a normal way, depending on how the areas are designed, it also creates signals against those who live in these areas and who today are often afraid to report crimes or to testify in criminal investigations. This is a huge part of how the police can naturally be present here and create a perceived security but also a real security through their presence. This entire report signals the problems of attending. Of course, all the other elements mentioned in the report should also be built in: preventive work and many other pieces, such as unemployment, household finances, overcrowding and the like. But the presence in these areas is very important, and the Swedish Democrats have a great deal of effort to enable the municipalities to work with these pieces to meet the police's wishes to be better able to attend to be able to work towards stoning and other similar things that happen when the police act in these areas. That is what is important in the first place, we believe. That's why I put this interpellation, and that's what I'd rather spend my time on.
i-d956712ddbb6aef5-39	Mr President, I would like to I note that I have answered all of Roger Hedlund's questions. I asked him a question back, but he did not even try to answer it. I dare to argue that the efforts made by the government to increase in practice the police presence in these areas so that today there are more policemen there is far more important than spending money on building up physical barriers. Although there are some problems in the physical design of some of these areas, this is, above all, a responsibility that must be borne by those who own the properties, i.e. the real estate companies, and not the taxpayers in the first place, as Roger Hedlund wants to do. The question I asked Roger Hedlund was about why the Swedish Democrats do not want the police force to correspond to the entire population. If this were done, civilian reconnaissance efforts could be made more easily in all areas of Sweden. This question remains unanswered. I leave it to the audience to think about why the Swedish Democrats are so frantically opposed to a mixed police force.
