i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-5	Madam President, I would like Ola Johansson has asked me whether, in the light of what has been said, I am prepared to initiate a moratorium on the re-evaluation of small-scale hydropower. I would like to start by making it clear that the issue of the level of requirements resulting from the EU Water Framework Directive should not be confused with the county administrative orders to apply for a permit for hydroelectric power stations and dams that have not previously been licensed. The operation of hydroelectric power stations and dams requires a permit. This is something that has been happening in Sweden for a long time and nothing that has been introduced as a result of our membership of the European Union. The majority of small hydroelectric power production has never been tested in relation to its environmental impact but is driven by the support of older rights that cannot be equated with permits in the sense of the environmental code. The practice of the M ark and Environmental Court of Appeal is very clear on this point. I can also note that the then alliance government already in 2011 in the letter ‘Actions for migratory fish in lakes and watercourses' stated that the supervision of water activities needed to be given higher priority. As a result, the Alliance government instructed the county administrative boards in the 2012 regulatory letter to increase the supervision of water activities according to the Environmental Code and also provided additional funding for the purpose. The environmental code imposes an obligation on the supervisory authority to supervise the activities covered by the supervisory responsibility. As a general rule, the County Administrative Board is responsible for the supervision of water activities and thus must ensure that such activities within the county are conducted in a manner that is consistent with the environmental code. This supervision is carried out in accordance with a long-established regulatory framework, and I assume that Ola Johansson, or the Member who receives the answer, and I agree that the applicable law means that if a licensed activity is carried out without authorisation, it is the responsibility of the supervisory authority, in this case the county administrative board, to ensure that corrective action is taken. The Energy Agreement stipulates that Sweden must have modern environmental requirements for hydropower. The agreement also states that the assessment system should be designed in a way that does not become unduly administratively and economically burdensome for the individual in relation to the environmental benefit sought. Within the Government Office, a process is currently under way to analyse the meaning of the Energy Agreement in relation to the already ongoing work on the preparation of proposals for amended provisions on water activities based on the proposal of the Water Activity Investigation. A future proposal for water operations will include proposals implementing the modifications to the hydroelectric test system resulting from the Energy Agreement. I cannot precede the ongoing process or today give an exact time when the government intends to return to Parliament on the matter, but I hope that this will happen before the summer. I do not intend to take any new initiatives while this work is going on. Finally, I would like to point out that the Government considers it essential to continue to develop the knowledge base, methods and guidance for good balance and mutual consideration between nature conservation, cultural environmental work and energy issues in the work on the regulatory and policy objectives that link water conservation measures, cultural environmental issues and energy objectives. The consequences and extent of these conflicts also need to be highlighted and good examples of work combining natural values, cultural historical values and energy values at water are highlighted.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-11	Madam President, I would like Ola Johansson welcomes and thanks for the answer. Thank you, too. I would like to start with an addition and clarification. When the alliance government increased supervision in 2012, it did so on the basis that there was an announcement with the demands of the Riksdag. The directives also gave a clear indication of the need for such a re-examination to be a coercive measure, but must not lead to the activities no longer being able to be carried out or significantly impeded. I believe that this part of the directive has not been followed in the work that has been done around the country. I have been following the issue since 2014 and have not yet found a political decision that says that small-scale hydropower will be dismantled. Updating existing activities to meet and meet current environmental requirements, yes, but with great care, point. There is no support in the EU for abandonment. As far as the implementation of the WFD is concerned, Sweden is currently taking the hardest route, harder than other countries. The directive provides for a nuance of the requirements, for derogations and for longer periods of time. There are different paragraphs that should be applied at the same time, but this is not done in Sweden. There is also an announcement from this Parliament calling for easier testing for small hydropower. The government has not yet responded to this. In addition, there is an energy agreement that our parties have concluded with clear wording that the review system should better take into account different interests and financial consequences in relation to the testing of small-scale hydropower. That's good, but it's also extremely frustrating. While all this is on the table – that no one wants to tear out or shut down – there are many owners of small water businesses that tear their hair in despair. Because the processes are going on, but we say we don't want to do it that way. In addition, the county administrative boards have now received increased resources and will increase their supervision. The Minister for the Environment says she can't do anything at the moment, but that's not true. But what the Minister for the Environment and the Government are doing is going in the opposite direction. Work on the upcoming Water Operations Bill is ongoing in the Government Office. But of course there have been delays. Those who have activities that await supervision are now becoming very worried. In the political debate, one is blamed for being responsible. For the current situation, I would like to say that we are jointly responsible. However, a temporary stop, a moratorium, in terms of the supervision that precedes announced and promised legislative changes, only Minister of the Environment Karolina Skog and Stefan Lövven's government can do something about it. Why are additional resources provided for increased supervision and not a moratorium – cold breathing space – for small-scale hydropower, Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-19	Madam President, I would like This is a discussion that we have had on many occasions for a number of years. Perhaps that is the basic problem. Quite independently of the energy agreement – I can say that, since the Liberals are outside it – we naturally think that all water activities should live up to today's environmental rules. And over time, all hydroelectric power plants must be tested according to the environmental code. That must nevertheless be something on which we can be very much in agreement. But this requires a long-term perspective and that you really get started. We now feel that this has ended up in a long bench. As early as 2012, the Alliance government gave the task of reviewing the legislation. The water operations investigation came in June 2014. Already a few months later, we received a report from the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management and the Swedish Energy Agency, where they jointly presented a strategy programme for actions in the field of water activities. It was an attempt to approach this with environmental focus. It is very much about doing the right things in the right place to get the greatest environmental benefit. I think that is precisely the argument that is important now that we are talking about small-scale and large-scale. The processes currently under way are perceived as costing large amounts of money. These are steam administrative processes. From the people who own this small hydroelectric power, one often hears: we are, of course, willing to take environmental measures, but now, in fact, all the energy and financial resources go to the process itself. Somehow it feels like we're stuck there and now it's taking time. I see that as the biggest concern. A bill has been promised before. Now I understand that the energy agreement itself delayed this, although for our part I do not think the connection is clear. Water activities linked to environmental benefits are a problem that existed before. It is old and requires its solution. It was not something that came up in the Energy Agreement, although much of the thought about having a flexible system where the small-scale and large-scale should not absolutely be tested within the same framework is there. I guess it's a good thing you've come this far. But now it must be a priority to move forward. Even if you come to the conclusion that you should not have a moratorium, it rolls, just as Annika Qarlsson says, further. It is about new supervisory processes and everything that comes into play. No one really thinks it's particularly good. Yet it is happening. As the Minister for the Environment says in his reply, what is going on is, of course, formally correct. We cannot say that the county boards are doing something wrong, but they are following the legislation that exists. But our task in Parliament is actually to change the legislation if we feel that it is not appropriate. There, the government is ultimately responsible for presenting the proposals.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-26	Madam President, I would like I have to say: finally a calm voice in this discussion! Among other things, I have discussed the issue with governors. They have a clear contribution to make to the House. It is that laws in Sweden are made here. It is the Riksdag that makes decisions. The County Administrative Board is the supervisory authority. If we're going to change the law, it's obviously going to be done here. This is the process that is going on. Based on the Water Operations Investigation and the energy agreement that has been made, we are now working intensively. Of course, we are working very intensively to formulate a proposal in order to be able to bring it to the House before the summer. But these are – I think I have said that a dozen times in this House – complex issues. They have been discussed for many years without landing properly. When we do this, of course, we will do so with care and take into account the various aspects that exist, so that we get a bill that lands right, where we steer towards what is asked, which I believe there is a political consensus around. It is well formulated by Lars Tysklind here. It is about taking the measures that have great environmental benefits and focusing on those elements and weighing together the small-scale, large-scale and the different aspects. But it is extremely surprising to hear that I would do this by going in unconstitutionalally and urging our authorities not to comply with the law passed by Parliament's Chamber. Should I do so, I hope that some sensible Member would immediately report me to the Constitutional Committee and ask what the heck I am doing. I have long, when I have tried to understand the question, understood that this would have been a conflict within the previous alliance government. But now I see that it is, among other things, the Center Party, which, under the alliance government, formulated additional funds and was clear to the county boards that they would work more precisely with supervision, which is now reacting to the result of the same. It's amazing. However, I am reassured that we know that we now have a broad political agreement on the direction to take. Our authorities have done a solid job in order to be able to get right in the priorities and to be able to make the efforts that have environmental benefits and focus there. I also understand that this has made the discussions between the various parties, such as NGOs and economic operators, more sensible. You sit down in different areas and focus: What is important here? What action should we take, and with whom can we wait? After a bill, we can certainly land this right. But it must of course – it is surprising that I need to repeat it – first of all be made a change of law, based on the proposal I intend to come back with.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-32	Madam President, I would like I think that Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog squats and hides a little behind the process that is going on. If the Minister for the Environment has not understood the consequences that this has for individuals – it concerns the processes that have been set in motion while there is clarity with regard to Sweden's citizens that a legislative proposal with a different focus is on the way, which will make a difference for these people – I think we would have to arrange some study visits that show what this actually means and what consequences it will have. We in the Center Party have not opposed this; on the contrary, we have felt that there is a need for review and supervision. But we have been careful that implementation must take place in dialogue but also in a way that does not knock them out. It is therefore implementation that we do not think is in line with the directives that existed in the area of supervision. Political processes have been going on for a long time on these issues. I am extremely grateful that we have landed in the Energy Agreement. Very much about these questions we got in the right direction, we think from the Center Party. There is a hope that it will come out really good things once it comes in place. At the moment, however, it is they who run small-scale water activities that have to bear the consequences of the political processes being delayed. I'm not saying the Minister for the Environment should break the law. However, she is going to give a signal that there are new rules in the pipeline and that we are therefore waiting for the processes that will otherwise be started here and now. Do not send more into that mill of supervision and processes that have received and receive much criticism, for it only grinds! Put the new regulations first! Madam President, I would like I would like to make one more point on this issue. There are details in the legal proceedings relating to small-scale hydropower, which I regard as worrying. The situation of owners of small hydropower in these legal processes is weak. Licensing processes, which are in practice run as two-party processes, place high demands on the entity itself to produce technical and environmental data and master the entire process. On the other hand, as a counterparty, there are expert authorities which are also decision-making authorities. It is a unique order in an international perspective. Larger players usually have the necessary resources, but it is quite unreasonable to expect small businesses to be able to bear these high costs. They have to buy in all that knowledge. There have long been thoughts about a fund that would support small hydropower activities. The Center Party would like to see such a fund introduced, but it must of course be in place before we proceed with the upgrading of the permits. Will there be a support fund of this kind in the forthcoming bill, and to whom will it apply?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-39	Madam President, I would like There is a great deal in what Annika Qarlsson says about how you experience the process and that you feel very extradited. We as legislators must bring that with us. Those of us who are out talking to people who are involved in these processes feel extremely clearly that people feel very helpless. The problem is that this is about existing activities that have existed for decades – centuries, I was saying, but at least maybe up to a hundred years. The ongoing processes, I want to be clear about, are really proof that the legislation we have is not appropriate. It is not acceptable for individual people to end up in these kinds of legal processes, where the focus is moved quite quickly from the environmental measures that people could well think of doing to sort of end up in a no altogether. There will be endless lawsuits that everyone really loses out on. I would therefore like to reiterate that we need to know where we are going. We have had a situation in Sweden with all these historical activities that we can of course see without a permit and that over time must be able to be tested according to the environmental code. But then let's focus on bringing this process forward! Now the Minister for the Environment says here that hopefully we can have a bill before the summer. I very much hope that we would have hoped for it by September, on which there was an indication. What is going on now does not seem at all acceptable, and I have the feeling that the supervisory authority also thinks it is a rather difficult situation. You know there will be a new legislation that hopefully is better, but still you have to keep working with the old one.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-43	Madam President, I would like Annika Qarlsson puts a very clear focus on what needs to happen now, but it also becomes very clear that what she proposes is a tulipanaros and something that is not possible. Part of the work that needs to be done in the spring is to ensure that the fund solution that we agree on in the energy agreement is in place. Work is under way in the industry to develop a proposal for such a fund in accordance with the Energy Agreement. We are following this work with great interest, and we must, as you said, match the proposal with that work. Running too fast, before the industry's work could have been completed, would have been a big mistake that might have made the whole proposal to limp. If we demand a lot of new legislation and expect funding to keep up with it, a few months' preparation will be required. It's not long. The county administrative boards and everyone else have now received the clear message that new legislation is being proposed on the ground. We must, of course, focus on the fact that it will be really, really good, and it is obviously a key for the future that there are also financial solutions in that whole. As I have said before, it is a work that focuses on what has great environmental benefits, because we have problems in our watercourses and it is relevant to continue. I also understand that we agree to seek that the activities that are subject to permits and the environmental code have been so for a long time all have the necessary permits. It is a fundamental principle, but when we work we will focus on the measures that have relevant environmental benefits and weigh them together with others. There the county boards are excellent because they also have responsibility for cultural environment and strategic development issues in the regions. I do not believe that there are any other proposals than that it should continue to be the county administrative board that is the supervisory authority on these issues.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-47	Madam President, I would like Around Europe, small-scale hydropower is being developed. In Sweden there are only a few who have invested heavily, for example Ålem Energi in Blomstermåla. Those who choose to modernise usually do so on a very small scale. There are companies in Sweden that develop and supply control equipment for the renovation of older hydroelectric power plants. There is a great potential for development. But with the great uncertainty that has existed for many years about what should apply, there are very few who even dare to think about the idea of investing in more modern equipment. Instead, if the current owners of small hydroelectric breathing space were to be given until new rules are in place, a regulatory framework that focuses on environmental improvements with a fund that can support small operators, clear directives that indicate that the next step will be done in dialogue and a more legally secure process with more equal opportunities for small and too large – now and then the environment, people and trust in public authorities would win. There are still a number of issues that remain. As regards the implementation of the Water Framework Directive, there are criticisms that it is being introduced unilaterally and not using the soft parts that can also be used to do this in a good way. This could, for example, involve heavily modified water, which for some strange reason has only been connected to the large hydroelectric plants in Sweden. Consideration can also be given to the government's signal to provide resources for increased supervision before the new regulatory framework is in place. I can agree that there is great concern in the country over that particular part. Who will be covered by the Fund? Will it include those who already exist today in the process, or are they the only ones who come in after the new law comes into force?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-53	Madam President, I would like As far as the fund is concerned, I repeat that there is work going on in the industry. I think it is very good that they are clear in really taking on this task. If I were to be the Minister for the Environment in the middle of this process and dictate the terms, it would be very disrespectful to that work. We are following the work that the industry is now doing on developing a fund very closely and ensuring that it will be in line with the proposal we will be presenting in time. There is an impatience in this House. In a way, I can understand it, based on the fact that we all know that there is concern in the country. But we who are here must know how to do things in order and what should come before the other. We are now focusing on producing a good proposal and putting this in time while there will be a fund solution ready so that we get a whole. To go beyond the laws and rules that apply to who is licensed and how supervision is carried out in this country would be wrong in principle. This is not the way to achieve a good end product on an important but also complex and tough political issue.
i-E4znH7e8wF26NUJzqTTvCy	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Isabella Lövin, Minister Ibrahim Baylan, Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog and Minister Anna Ekström. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government of Isabella Lövin answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-57	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address Karolina Skog, our Minister for the Environment. The question is how the Minister for the Environment sees mining minerals in alums. I ask the question because, in Jämtland, Storsjöbygden, for several years, there has been a very intensive exploration of uranium. Now, however, there has been a change. The focus is no longer uranium, but vanadium. I believe that this is partly because of strong local opinion and partly because the municipalities concerned have announced that the municipal veto would be used in the event of a break. Many in the environmental movement believe that this is a diversion to avoid the municipal veto. Anyway, it's very troubling. The environmental consequences are the same, and it's an old fine cultural district we're talking about.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-60	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by commenting on the related issue of uranium mining. The government has taken a stand. We do not believe that this should take place in Sweden. As Minister for the Environment, however, I cannot comment on individual breaks. Decisions are made in due order by the Mountain State. I cannot comment on individual matters in this way. There are a number of issues that we need to investigate regarding mining in Sweden. Some questions are now being prepared within the Government Office. It is very important that we combine the possibility of an active and profitable mining industry in Sweden with strong environmental considerations.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-63	Mr President, I would like to I asked the question in general precisely because I am well aware that the Government has neither the opportunity nor the expertise to go into a specific issue. In this case, I exemplified with Jämtland Storsjöbygden. The serious thing is that there's another sound in the bark now. In the past, prospectors and prospective exploiters talked about uranium. Now it's the habit. How does the Government view that question?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-65	Mr President, I would like to It must be assumed that the information provided by a trader to the Bergsstatet when applying for a mining permit is correct. Misconceptions that this is really about other activities cannot be the starting point. Of course, we assume that the information provided is correct and that the decisions taken comply with the legislation.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-66	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Anna Ekström. We were able to read these days that Minister Wikström does not intend to do what the majority of Parliament wants, namely to increase the number of sports hours from 500 to 600. For me as a sports teacher and gym coach for 25 years, this is like a punch in the face. I was amused to go in and look at Minister Gabriels's CV. In fact, he has worked a few hours as a timvikari in 2005 in a central school in Skinnskatteberg. So it is indeed a giant among the giants who speak on the matter. But all the research shows that children who move feel better. We can take the Bunkeflo model with Ingegerd Ericsson as an example. Local sports associations were invited there and the teachers' college was relieved. Of the students concerned, 96 percent passed their upper secondary school qualification. Normally, it's 85%. I understand that the Government cannot speak ill of a colleague, but does she really agree with Gabriels's analysis?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-71	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the question. I think we all agree that movement is a very important thing. Movement should also be a natural part of the school day. How, then, do we ensure that children and students move a lot in school? On the one hand, this is done through teaching in the subject of sport and health, and on the other hand through other types of physical activity and motor training. An important measure to promote learners' learning is the opportunity for daily physical activity. To emphasise this, the Lgr 11 curriculum under the section on the school's core values states that a school should strive to offer all pupils daily physical activity within the framework of the school day. The reason why this is stated in the curriculum is that movement should be a natural part of the school day and that movement can take place within the field of sport and health but also within the framework of much other teaching and many other activities in school education.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-74	Mr President, I would like to We agree on the basic issue. We know that poor motorism usually leads to poor self-confidence, poor motivation and poor concentration. Above all, children with reading and writing problems may be particularly affected by this. In short, children who feel good perform well. A small survey has been carried out and it has been concluded that it is a social gain we are talking about. As for Bunkeflo model children, the result was SEK 38 000 per student. It is money that I think we can use better, unless the Government thinks otherwise.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-76	Mr President, I would like to As I said, it is already stipulated in the curriculum that the school should strive for children and students to have daily physical activity. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to review the need for more movement during the school day. This work will be based on research and proven experience as well as the knowledge that exists within authorities and organisations. We fully agree that daily physical activity is something very important. The government will be watching this issue very closely.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-79	Mr President, I would like to I address my question to Minister Anna Ekström. More and more people need vocational training in adulthood. But today, when you choose to go to high school, you have to make your career choice already in your 14s. Many opt out of vocational training for the benefit of theoretical education. Later in life you find that you want to train to a profession. How does the Government intend to work to provide more opportunities for adult vocational training?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-81	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lena Emilsson for the question, which is very important. In the society we live in, we have, as Lena Emilsson says, a big problem with many children and young people getting a bad start in their working life by leaving upper secondary school without a full grade or leaving upper secondary school with an education that does not lead them where they had planned. In order to ensure that there is lifelong learning and great opportunities for lifelong learning, the government has decided to establish what is called regional vocational training. Regionally professional adult education is included in last year's budget bill, has been decided by Parliament and will mean that there are good opportunities for many young and older people to acquire coherent adult education and training courses that lead to careers. Through good cooperation with the regional business community, our conviction is that this will lead to good opportunities for many young people and the elderly.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-83	Mr President, I would like to The SCB describes that in 2025 there will be a shortage of 34 000 high school graduates in technology and manufacturing and 74 000 in health and social care. Would it not then be good from the labour market perspective to make blocks of professional knowledge and provide it as adult education?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-85	Mr President, I would like to It is just as Lena Emilsson says: At the same time as the labour market screams for professionals in these industries, we have major recruitment problems for the courses that lead to these particular professions. For this reason, it is important for us in adult education to ensure that there are good opportunities throughout our lives to acquire a profession. These opportunities will increase dramatically with the changes made to this year's budget proposal and with proper reinforcements on the study support side.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-88	Mr. Speaker and Minister for Development Isabella Lövin! Last Saturday millions of people gathered around the world to march for women's rights in Women's March. I hope this is the start of a huge global movement for women's rights. But the reason this thing got started is less fun. It has to do with Trump taking power and declaring that he is against women's and children's rights. Among other things, he opposes the right to abortion and now wants to reduce the money that will go to international organisations to support the right to abortion. My question to Isabella Lövin is: What will you do to support the organizations in this difficult time?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-91	Mr President, I would like to That's right. During President Obamas's time, the United States has been a very large donor to organisations that support women's right to information on sexual and reproductive health and the right to abortion. This has helped to reduce maternal and child mortality in developing countries in a very positive way during this time. It is absolutely a threat to women that the United States withdraws. Sweden and I have taken the initiative on several things: We will contact our parliamentary network. We will contact like-minded people within the European Union. We will also contact like-minded countries in the world so that together we can go to organisations and reassure them and say that we will continue to support the business, because it is vital for women and for the development of the world.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-93	Mr President, I would like to That's very good. I have one more question. I have heard that the Netherlands has taken the initiative to set up an Trust Fund as a counter-reaction to what the United States is now doing. Is it in Sweden's interest to participate in the work, and have you had contact with the Dutch about this?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-95	Mr President, I would like to We are already in contact with the Netherlands about the initiative. It is also important that we now keep the cold mind and really analyse the situation. Where can we best benefit – by supporting the organisations that carry out the work or by starting new funds? What is important is that we who are progressive countries and who stand up for women's rights and the right to abortion do not now compromise with it in any way and that the organisations receive funding.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-97	Mr President, I would like to The lack of government proposals in the housing crisis is not only hitting those parts of Sweden that have strong migration, that is, our big cities. It also hits hard on those parts of Sweden, such as my county of Jönköping, which have the greatest need not only for new residents but also for keeping the existing ones. It is about survival for Sweden's rural areas and sparsely populated areas. Those of us who live there know that you can, above all, compete with attractive accommodation in relation to the city's offer. In this matter, a changed and relaxed beach protection is crucial for Sweden's municipalities and county councils, as the Rural Committee now states. I would like to ask Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog: When does the government intend to abandon its previously very passive attitude and begin the change in the protection of the beach in order to make it possible to live in Sweden's rural areas, sparsely populated areas and archipelagos?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-100	Mr President, I would like to When we talk about the housing issue, it is worth always remembering that the initiative taken by the government, which was the most important thing, was to invite broad party political discussions on this, including in order to discuss beach protection. The opposition was not in favour of this, and I very much regret that this was not possible. This, of course, has not made us passive on the part of the government, but we have presented 22 points on which we will go forward. One of them is to review the LIS system, which we have to say has not been successful. It does not reach the intentions behind the system. It is about enabling increased housing construction, especially in rural areas.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-102	Mr President, I would like to It is remarkable that, in the worst housing crisis in 50 years, no government has since the 1970s delivered as few proposals to increase the possibilities for housing and housing construction in Sweden as the current one. According to all experts, the minimal changes that Karolina Skog presents regarding LIS areas will have a marginal impact on housing construction in Sweden. Major and more radical changes are needed. When will the government deliver them?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-104	Mr President, I would like to We can agree on one thing: The change in beach protection is not what will largely determine how housing construction takes place in Sweden. But we can see that housing construction has never been as high as it is now and that we have a government that delivers a wide range of clear proposals, including in areas where previous governments have failed. I am thinking, for example, of bubbles. When it comes to beach protection, we should start where the problems are greatest so that we do real good. This means that each focuses on the LIS areas.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-106	Mr President, I would like to I listened to Ekot's Saturday interview with Minister Baylan last Saturday. One of the most important points on which the programme was concerned was the issues on which I work a lot, namely crime and combating it. It is at the top of the list of things that Ibrahim Baylan is to coordinate in the forthcoming delegation but also in the government in the mission he has as Minister of Segregated Areas. One statement that I reacted to was that the government has increased the support to the police by SEK 2 billion. As a member of the Committee on Justice, I looked at the budget and saw that the bulk of these resources are in 2019 and 2020. I've just been to Malmö, where the police live under saving threats, and met the chief of police. What does Ibrahim Baylan say to the police when they end up in this situation?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-109	Mr President, I would like to I think we can agree that the situation is serious in many parts of the country. We must agree equally that this is not acceptable and that society must be clear about it. Roger Haddad asks what we say. Perhaps the most important thing is not what we say, but what we actually do. This government has strengthened support for the police in every budget we have put forward. That's it. We have done this precisely because we want to strengthen the Police Authority, and we want it to be clear that the police should be out where the most crimes take place. That's one thing. The second is that we are changing laws at a rapid pace to make it clear that this is not acceptable. So of course you can talk, especially if you're in opposition. But if you compare the two years that this government has been sitting with the eight years that Roger Haddad's party was in government, you can see that it is happening far more now than it was then.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-113	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Minister. The government will never come up to the levels we lay and will lay on the police. You're spending 100 million this year, and we're spending 975 million. I think it is wrong to say in the Ekot's Saturday interview that you have spent 2 billion when you spend 100 million. Your billions will come later in the term of office. It was referred to the National Police Commissioner in the interview, and he said: They often talk about this, but I don't see it and I don't experience it! So it was about investments. The attacks on bluelight personnel will be investigated for three years. What do you say to the police officers and ambulance personnel who are victims of crime?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-116	Mr President, I would like to These resources are contained in the budget that Parliament has just put in place and has therefore also supported. What the chief of police called for was social work, and I agree with the chief of police. It's been a lot of talk for far too long. Not least in the previous government, efforts were mentioned, and Roger Haddad's party was responsible for these issues for eight years. The only effort that's stuck in my memory was to move the office to Rinkeby for a week.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-117	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Anna Ekström. How does the government intend to ensure that there are teachers of national minority languages in the future? High school students receive merit points to encourage them to study modern languages, mathematics and English, but if you want to study a native language, you don't get such points. Far too few students are given the opportunity to read Sami or any of the other national minority languages despite the fact that the need is great now and will be so in the future. In addition, qualified teachers in mother tongues do not have the competence to teach modern languages, and it is difficult today for teachers in mother tongues to supplement to obtain upper secondary school qualifications in the same way as teachers in modern languages can do. There should be no difference between mother tongue teachers and teachers of modern languages, but all should have upper secondary school qualifications.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-121	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Eva Lohman, for the question! The question concerns teachers of national minority languages but could relate to a much larger group than that. We in Sweden have a very big problem with the fact that we have too few qualified teachers on many subjects. It is a problem that is common to virtually all grades, and it is an issue that is very high on both the government's and Parliament's agenda. In her question, Eva Lohman highlights the importance of some modern languages giving extra entry points. That's exactly right. The previous government's decision to change a lot of the rules for eligibility to the university has influenced how pupils in upper secondary school and comprehensive school have chosen languages. This question is currently the subject of an investigation under Helene Hellmark Knutsson, and we are really looking forward to that investigation finding a good answer.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-123	Mr President, I would like to It is not the national minorities who should be responsible for the fact that there are competent staff and teachers in municipalities, county councils, regions and states today and in the future, but it is the responsibility of the state. I might also add that there is a great deal of interest among native speakers to supplement their education to upper secondary school teacher level.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-125	Mr President, I would like to As I said, the issue of merit points is currently the subject of an investigation under Helene Hellmark Knutsson. I want to broaden my answer to the whole school. The big problem we have with the recruitment of students to teacher training is, of course, linked to the status of the teaching profession and how attractive the teaching profession is perceived to be. Here the government has great efforts with teacher salaries and other things, and hopefully they have a good effect on the future recruitment. If the teaching profession is to be a career for the future, it must also be attractive.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-127	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Minister Baylan a question. Many are afraid and experience some of our big cities' suburbs as lawless land. Trust in the public contract and the public contract is crumbling. I believe that saving people does not act in solidarity and in the interests of everyone. The Social Democrats have not wanted any Minister for Integration to ensure that mandates and resources are spread across all ministers. The Government is now set to coordinate various efforts from the Government Committee to restore order, security and stability in the suburbs where the cars burn. It is essential to restore confidence in the authorities.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-131	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President, for a very important question. It is true that it is a responsibility both for the government as a whole and for the municipalities jointly. I think this needs to rest on two legs. One leg is crime and punishment. The present police are needed, and there, as the honourable Member knows, the government is committed to an increased police presence. Clearer legislation is also needed. There must be much faster sanctions, and it must, in the case of serious weapons offences, go much faster and, moreover, not be released so quickly. The other leg is the social one. If we are to end up in a situation where we are breaking this trend, not only police action is enough, but we must also ensure that we cut off the influx of this criminal activity. That is precisely what is the focus of the entire government's work.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-133	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. Participation and commitment must be key words for the return to everyday life in the vulnerable suburbs. At the same time, it must be clear what can be accepted in Sweden. An outmoded man's role, honorary culture and a stone's throw against emergency vehicles must cease. There's got to be order. I think that the study associations, Association Sweden and the whole of civil society have an enormous role to play. What initiatives does the Government advocate in terms of inclusion through, for example, education and study associations?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-135	Mr President, I would like to I believe in essence that if we are to succeed in this long-term work – it will unfortunately take time, because we have had a development that has gone in the wrong direction for a long time with increased gaps and also a policy that has also increased the gaps for a decade – we need, together with civil society, i.e. the study associations, the municipalities and the state authorities, to make joint efforts. I am convinced that this is possible, but it requires that we do this together and that we focus. That's why the government does it all together.
i-kwbq1ifkZFd9Gp1aQChVx	Mr President, I would like to The Alliance government set up a parliamentary inquiry to tighten up the export control of war material to dictatorships. The work went on for three years, and in June 2015, the investigation presented legislative proposals that were due to enter into force in April 2016. The proposal has been taken a long way in the Government Office, while new efforts have been made to increase exports to dictatorships, most recently through Prime Minister Lövven's trip with a delegation, including representatives of the arms industry, to Saudi Arabia. At the same time, the fact that the government also seems to be poignant in the Dutertes Philippines raises further questions as to where the government stands. There is great concern among us Christian Democrats, but also among many civil society organisations involved in this issue. Will the government make a proposal in line with the policy of global development, thereby seriously strengthening arms export control? My question goes to Isabella Lövin.
i-YKkz1joVXVsTQPtK8cHWXE	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sofia Damm, for the question. I would like to start by objecting to the description that the government wants to sell arms to Saudi Arabia through a trade delegation. It was a delegation that intended to promote peaceful trade and nothing else. When it comes to tightening up the democracy criterion for arms exports, we have a parliamentary delegation that has looked very closely at this issue, and the government will present a new legislation later in the spring with the intention of clarifying the democracy criterion that is fully in line with the policy of global development. I would also like to stress the importance of having the authority to decide on export cases and whether or not it should be possible to export.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-140	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. It is positive that the Government intends to present a proposal that would clarify a democracy criterion. The question is whether it is a genuine democracy criterion that the government will present in its proposal. Or is the government thinking that other reasons, such as economic ones, will outweigh respect for human dignity and democracy in developing countries?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-141	Mr President, I would like to It is a priority for this government with human rights and democracy. It also permeates the government's industrial policy. As one of the first countries in the world, Sweden has a strategy, which the Minister for Economic Affairs has presented, for how we should follow the UN's guidelines on human rights in business. As far as arms exports are concerned, it is a thoroughly investigated issue that we will proceed with.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-143	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. Lake Vättern is unique. It is one of Sweden's largest lakes. It is also northern Europe's largest drinking water supply that supplies almost half a million people with drinking water. Here the Swedish Armed Forces now want to greatly expand their operations. You want to be able to shoot 69,000 shots. Each year, 150 rockets are fired, and you want to carry out 10,000 flights annually. Karolina Skog, this question has landed on your table. Just before Christmas, you made a decision that the Swedish Armed Forces should not have to describe alternative places and methods. You don't have to have a zero vision either, that is, you shouldn't have any activities at all. Why should the Armed Forces not have to make any alternative descriptions?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-148	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jens Holm, for raising this very important issue and giving me an opportunity to try to clarify the work done with permit processes for the Swedish Armed Forces' operations in the vicinity of Vättern. There are a number of different conditions, some of which have been decided and some are under way. It is very important to establish that the cases are being prepared separately and handled separately. Just before Christmas, we finished. It was about the flight and specifically about the fact that the legislation includes an environmental quality statement. There are possibilities for exceptions. You don't always have to describe a zero option where it's not relevant, if it's just a paper that ends up in a cover. That was the decision we made before Christmas. All other permit issues are under preparation. But there should be no interconnection. It is important to know that the permit issues are prepared individually.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-152	Mr President, I would like to Then I must ask the Minister for the Environment: Does the Minister for the Environment not think that if the Swedish Armed Forces fivefold in this important area – from 2 000 to 10 000 flights per year – then the Swedish Armed Forces should not be required to make a description of an alternative, of alternative locations and methods? Perhaps you should stay on the number of flights you are doing today, or you should not make any flights at all. Shouldn't the defense have the responsibility of presenting alternatives?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-154	Mr President, I would like to The decision that we took before the spring meant that we handed over the authorisation examination to the licensing authority that deals with these issues. We only tried the question of whether the environmental impact assessment should contain an alternative location and made the assessment that it was not relevant for the defence. There are no other places in Sweden where the defence could carry out this activity, and that would not improve the environmental impact assessment. But the rest of the permit issues are dealt with in their entirety by the responsible authority.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-156	Mr President, I would like to Especially on the Social Democratic side, the debates often talk about the Swedish model – the model in the ones. In a debate article that has been published in a number of newspapers around Sweden, including in Dalarna's Tidningar in my area, Minister Ekström writes about the Swedish model in school. What is it? Does the Government mean there's only one model? The article also describes the spread of inequality in Swedish schools and that this is the fault of the free choice of schools and the free school reform. Shouldn't a variety of models be encouraged at school? When the free school reform was introduced, the idea was to allow different educational orientations to help students in their learning. After many years at school, I believe that students learn in different ways. Does the Government want to strangle the diversity of school to be just a model?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-160	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the question. We have in Sweden a rather unique school system that has not been followed by very many countries. That school system includes what we call free school elections, a very free right of establishment for independent schools, a school money with a set-up and a withdrawal of profits that we do not see in other countries. The wish and ambition when this system was introduced in the 1990s was that it would lead to greater equivalence and increased knowledge results in the Swedish school. Now, 25 - 30 later, we see that the Swedish school results have fallen in a way that is unprecedented, with the exception of the joyful rise that we saw in PISA, in Timss and Timss Advanced just recently. We also see that equivalence has deteriorated dramatically. The system hasn't delivered.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-163	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. There are many factors that have caused the Swedish school to go downhill. I have been with quite a few years since the 1960s in the Swedish school and have seen how school results have fallen. I do not really believe that this is the case. Looking at the free choice of schools, it turns out that there are many educators who are looking for and getting permission for the establishment of free schools based on an educational background. Is this what the government wants to strangle?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-166	Mr President, I would like to I want to see a real diversity in the Swedish school. One major problem we have seen in recent years is that the existence of non-profit independent schools based on an educational idea has been reduced. Rather, the development here has stood still compared to other Nordic countries. We have a great joint responsibility to ensure that the Swedish school becomes an equal school of knowledge. Increased learning outcomes are important, but they should benefit all students.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-168	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. Chemicals policy and the presence of dangerous substances are issues that have been on the agenda for a number of years and which involve and worry many people. It is an important political task to ensure that we are careful about which substances are spread among people and in our environment. One of the most important things that we have in chemicals policy is to ensure that dangerous substances in products and goods are replaced when there are equally good substances that are less harmful, the so-called substitution principle. It is therefore very gratifying that the government has appointed a special investigator to look at the conditions for setting up a centre for substitution in Sweden. Without prejudging the investigation, I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment what benefits she sees from such a centre and what she believes it can achieve.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-172	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. The issue of hazardous chemicals in the products that we have in our homes involves a great many citizens and also many in the business world. Chemicals policy contains different elements. We are very driven by Sweden when it comes to legislation and economic instruments. It is also important to work with the business community to find better alternatives. This is where this center comes in. It is difficult today, not least for small and medium-sized enterprises, to find the best technical solutions. It requires expertise at a very high level. A centre can work together with companies that want to find the best possible solutions for their products so that the products are safe.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-177	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Isabella Lövin. Today there is a great housing shortage. Boverket reported in 2011 that overcrowding is increasing and that three out of five Swedes live in municipalities where housing is scarce. The housing shortage, which mainly affects young, old and families with children, is also directly alarming in many parts of the country. For example, SVT recently reported that living in a retirement home in Värmdö was forced to live in containers. At the same time, Sweden has received hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers in recent decades. Today we can see how municipalities give so-called new arrivals priority in housing queues. They are offered houses, flats or expensive hotel rooms, while the proportion of homeless Swedes is increasing. The situation is deeply unfair and discriminatory. Does Isabella Lövin consider that there is a direct link between the very large reception of asylum seekers and the lack of housing in many municipalities? Furthermore, I wonder if Lövin thinks it is reasonable and fair that new arrivals should be given priority in housing queues and offered houses, flats and hotel rooms.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-182	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. Last year, housing construction in Sweden increased by 60 per cent. We now have a housing building that is unlike anything we have seen since the days of the million - year program. So we have a very intensive effort to support cheap rentals that should also be climate-smart. To this end, we set aside EUR 6 billion, which will enable those with a little lower income, young people and others to get a place to live. With regard to the new arrivals, it is of course important that those who have been granted asylum can be quickly established in society. We have an active work to ensure that it is a good establishment. The government will present further measures here in the spring.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-184	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for at least part of the answer! However, I argue that it does not help to have a limited housing structure while at the same time having a policy that brings a very large amount of people every year. There's not enough housing. The proportion of people coming to Sweden is significantly higher than that. I still want answers to the question whether the Government believes that there is a connection between the extreme housing market that we have today and the influx of people, but also whether it is reasonable and fair to give newly arrived benefits that Swedish citizens do not get.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-186	Mr President, I would like to We have a dysfunctional housing market, and that depends on a variety of factors. People remain in larger homes because of taxation rules and so on that prevents a rotation. We have had too little housing. I would like to conclude by saying that when it comes to the right of asylum and people fleeing from war and conflict, Sweden, like all other countries, has an obligation to receive and protect those people who are otherwise at risk of dying.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-188	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Development Isabella Lövin. Sweden has long and strong links with Afghanistan. We have received many Afghan refugees, and we have both aid and military operations on the ground to assist in the work of security and development. There are many minorities in Afghanistan, including the Hazzars. We are now receiving signals that they are almost completely unsupported by Sweden. How will the Minister for Development ensure that Swedish aid is distributed fairly among the different regions and that all minorities, including the Hazzars, benefit from development cooperation?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-190	Mr President, I would like to Afghanistan is Sweden's largest aid country. I have been there myself and discussed with its government and seen on the ground how much benefit the Swedish aid does. But there are also enormous challenges, not least in terms of security. We provide aid for education, employment, health care, rural development and economic integration to enable sustainable development in Afghanistan. We know that discrimination against ethnic minorities exists, but it is not sanctioned by the state. However, we have seen terrible attacks on the Hazzars. Our business makes no distinction between different ethnic groups, but focuses on the most marginalised. We have many channels, including the Swedish Afghanistan Committee, which provides support in areas where Hazzars live.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-193	Mr President, I would like to As we know, the Hazar region is rich in natural resources. People want to build peace and create better opportunities for life. This requires education, work, health care and safety. Aid is one way of supporting this.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-195	Mr President, I would like to We have a focus on precisely economic development and livelihoods for those who may not otherwise be able to live in rural areas but seek out to the big cities or even want to leave the country because they cannot live there. This is a major focus of our aid strategy. Health, education, human rights and, not least, women are our other priorities.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-196	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Anna Ekström, Minister for Higher Education and Knowledge. The background to the question is that several international organisations and studies have shown that the Swedish school is unequal. They also show that the differences between high-performance and low-performance students are increasing. This is, of course, incredibly worrying. Therefore, I wonder what the government is doing to create a more equal school.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-197	Mr President, I would like to The question is very important. In the last PISA survey, which we received in December, there was a happy result. The knowledge results for the Swedish students went up. In fact, it was the first time in a very long time that we have seen rising knowledge results. But we also got a cold shower when we saw that the inequality is becoming increasingly clear. This points to the OECD, which in the latest PISA study shows that the differences in performance between high-performance and low-performance students in Sweden are among the largest in the entire OECD area. We are used to seeing fairly small differences in Sweden and think it is a great advantage. The OECD also shows how important it is for increased knowledge to go hand in hand with enhanced equivalence. The government has appointed a school commission that has as one of its most important tasks to come up with proposals to strengthen equivalence. I am really looking forward to the School Commission's proposal which will be submitted in April. They will be very important.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-200	Mr President, I would like to I am a member of the Stockholm region, and one cannot escape the fact that this is a region that is severely affected by segregation. A number of measures are needed to access it. But school is an important piece of the puzzle, and of course we do not want school to reinforce segregation but rather to counteract it.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-202	Mr President, I would like to Storstockholm has a high school market characterised by very large inequalities, just as Mathias Tegnér points out. I think it will be important to look at the rules we have for, for example, admission to upper secondary school. We're used to talking about the free choice of school. In reality, however, the free choice of school consists of wishes expressed by pupils and parents, and we have rules on how these wishes are to be met. We look forward to working on these provisions.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-205	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. In 2016, the Government introduced an electric bus premium to stimulate the transition to fossil-fuel-free public transport. The premium is so designed that it can only be applied for by the regional public transport authorities and not by the bus companies which actually own the public transport buses. According to information from Swedish bus companies, only a few applications have so far been received. The budgeted allocation therefore does not seem to have the desired effect. My question to the Government is: is it true that the regulation has not had the desired effect of stimulating more electric buses? If so, does the government intend to change the regulatory framework so that it will have a better effect?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-208	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. We cannot say anything other than that we are not so far satisfied with the outcome of the electricity bus premium. It aims to help new technologies to have an impact in Sweden. Public transport in Sweden is ordered by the regional public transport authorities, which then procure private companies. Contract law prevents us from entering into such procurements and contracts, as it would interfere with this process. The procurement procedure also takes time to introduce such a premium. It is when awarding contracts for a new period that this becomes relevant. We receive good signals that the number of applications will increase in the coming years as the regional authorities take new decisions. However, we are also looking at whether we can simplify the application procedure in order to increase the number of applications.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-212	Mr President, I would like to Sweden often tries to be the best in the class when it comes to complying with EU rules. I understand that the EU state aid rules have been one of the factors that make the rules look like they do. But other countries often succeed better. The European Commission has recently approved state aid in Portugal, which can be applied for by both public and private bus companies as long as they have contracts with a public client. The question is: Does the government see the possibility of doing the same?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-214	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we are aware of the decision that has been taken on Portugal, which has received an exception. It has not been published so far, so we have not been able to take a look at it and read exactly how Portugal has designed its support and what the Commission has made exceptions for. Of course we will take part of it as soon as it has been published. Then we will follow and see if there is something we can be inspired by.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-215	Mr President, I would like to I want to ask Minister Isabella Lövin a question. Female genital mutilation is practised in at least 28 countries worldwide. It is most widespread in Africa and parts of the Middle East, but it also occurs in other countries and in other parts of the world. The African Union has called on its Member States to legislate against genital mutilation. My question to the Government will then be: How can we, through Swedish aid, help the AU in its efforts to contribute to a faster resolution of this cruel phenomenon?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-218	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, honourable Member, for drawing attention to this important subject. The African Union's decision to ban female genital mutilation is definitely a step in the right direction. Sweden is a very large donor to organisations working against female genital mutilation, such as the UN Population Fund, WHO, UNICEF and UN Women. Today, some of the funding to these organisations is under great pressure because of the US decision not to provide funds to organisations that provide information on abortions or contraception and are engaged in contraceptive counselling. Here, then, our support becomes even more important. We are, of course, also having a dialogue with governments in those countries where female genital mutilation is common.
i-SzucwyKpeg5Wtzf8kTQCZm	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. What would the Government say are the most important measures that the Swedish Government can take to put an end to female genital mutilation also in countries outside Africa?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-222	Mr President, I would like to The most important thing is the standard-setting work. We support information and also give women a stronger position in society, so that they can actually question this very cruel treatment and treatment of young girls. It is also very much a question of addressing female leaders and role models, which in turn can lead the transition that needs to be made in order to end this.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-224	Mr President, I would like to My question is also addressed to Minister Isabella Lövin. Yesterday came Transparency International's corruption ranking, where Sweden unfortunately lost the last year's podium. In addition, Kalla facts' review shows something that gives the impression of irregularities at the National Property Board, and Assignment review comes with less flattering information about the management of the Tax Agency. The Head of the National Police has been under pressure for a long time. Regarding the corruption ranking, it is perhaps rather a headline: Sweden is still at the top, and together with our neighbours we have always been among the top countries in relation to other countries when it comes to perceived corruption. However, a lot of questions are raised. We have traditionally in Sweden a high degree of trust, but trust is quickly destroyed. What steps is the government taking to overcome the serious criticism that has been made of our government agencies and agencies?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-228	Mr President, I would like to Corruption is an extremely serious thing for a democratic society. It undermines citizens' confidence in the state's ability to manage a good society, to manage tax funds and to ensure that no irregularities occur. What is now being investigated about maladministration at Fastighetsverket is an individual case that Minister Bolund is currently dealing with. We'll have to follow it. It is, of course, totally unacceptable if the things that have come out on TV4 are correct. How, then, are we to tackle corruption? The principle of public access, the principles of the rule of law and the fact that we are always transparent are the most important means of combating corruption and the possibility of irregularities in the public sector, including in business.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-231	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for its answer. The principle of public access, transparency and so on is something we have for a long time, but the question is whether it is enough and whether further action will be taken. We have high taxes in Sweden that we expect to go to what has been decided on. The government that Isabella Lövin represents also raises taxes in many areas. It is essential for the legitimacy of our tax system that we continue to have confidence that the money is spent on the right things. Confidence in our government agencies and agencies is an essential element.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-233	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree that transparency is A and O in order for us to have confidence in the state's activities and the activities of the public authorities. This government has very high ambitions and has also taken further steps with other transparency also within the Government Office. We look with concern at the cases that we have now seen, of course, and will follow this.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-235	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Anna Ekström and is about the increasing inequality in Swedish schools that has been touched on in this House earlier today. It is not least serious that Swedish schools do not sufficiently meet the challenge of many newly arrived students, who often concentrate on a few of our schools and municipalities. Not least, it is about small municipalities in Bergslagen, from which I myself come. Today, LO, together with the National Federation of Teachers and the Federation of Teachers, has made suggestions on how we can create an equal school. What is the Government's view of the need for reform in the areas identified by trade unions: school elections, funding and governance, and support for schools with the toughest conditions?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-237	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Åsa Eriksson, for the question! It is quite true that we have problems with increasing inequality. It is clear to me that reforms are needed. I look forward with curiosity and joy to the proposals to come from the School Commission in April. I was also very pleased that LO, the Teacher Association and the National Association of Teachers have together produced a report listing both a number of problem areas and a number of ways forward. I find it gratifying and strong that organisations that exist on such a broad part of the Swedish labour market and that represent such different interests are nevertheless united in a concern for the increasing inequality and a number of fairly sharp proposals in the area of funding, establishment of schools, selection and targeted efforts. Much needs to be done in the Swedish school to strengthen equivalence, and if we are to make it, we need to work together, many different actors.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-240	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Swedish High School Minister. The School Inspectorate's supervisory report for upper secondary school in the first half of 2016 shows that 87 per cent of the schools with priority supervision had shortcomings. The area that had the most shortcomings is the prerequisites for learning and security, followed by governance and development as well as security, study and insulting treatment. The purpose of the school is to learn. If 87 per cent of the upper secondary schools in the report have major shortcomings in the prerequisites for learning and security, the principal has failed miserably with a primary part of his mission. No one has the right to subject students to poor education. Therefore, Sweden needs a zero tolerance against bad schools. Why does the government say no to zero tolerance of bad schools, and what does the government intend to do to counter these abuses?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-243	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. The report by the School Inspectorate is really interesting, but it is important to know when you take note of these alarming figures that the School Inspectorate has a new audit model. There is simply a much greater focus in the review of schools that have problems. It cannot therefore be concluded from this report that 87% of all schools show these major shortcomings. Having said that, it is certainly worth taking very seriously the shortcomings that are being reported. In my world, and in the world of Swedish school law, all schools should be good schools. All students in Sweden should be able to go to a school where they learn a lot and where they feel a strong sense of security. All teachers must of course have the best possible conditions for teaching. This includes a good study. There is a large selection of efforts made by the government to ensure that teaching can be developed in a positive way in the Swedish school. These efforts are needed; this study shows.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-246	Mr President, I would like to I want to ask Karolina Skog my question. I think it is very important that the different modes of transport are treated equally, so that you can freely choose how you want to get there. Cycling is an area that I think we should invest a lot more in. We know the advantages of cycling. It's good for your health. It's good for the environment. It's good for the economy. It's a cheap way to get through. But it's actually also an advantage for the motorists. Those who really need to take the car will have more room. There is less risk of traffic jams when people choose bikes, for example. There are many advantages. My question to the government is: how can we promote cycling even more? We can see what it's like when it comes to short distances, such as those commuting to work. There are many who have a road that is only a few kilometres away. They could well take the bike and arrive almost as fast as by car. How do we get more people to choose the bike, and how do we invest in expanding the bike infrastructure?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-249	Mr President, I would like to Many thanks, Hillevi, for the question! We both know what it can be like in a city where the bike is prioritised and is allowed to take place in our street room. It's good for everyone. It is good for air quality and for health. Not least, the transport system is opened in an equal way by cycling, just as you say, is a cheap way to transport yourself. This government takes the question of cycling very seriously. We see it as a strategic issue for the development of our cities but also for the transport system. There's one thing we've already done. We recently decided to extend the urban environment agreements – it is a grant that municipalities can apply for for transport infrastructure – to bicycle infrastructure. This is very much in the interest of the municipalities. I very much look forward to it leading to much more money going to good infrastructure. That's the most important thing. If you have good infrastructure, the cyclists will come.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-252	Mr President, I would like to Yesterday, the residents of Jönköping were informed through the media that Elgiganten is locating its customer centre to Denmark. 150 jobs are being lost. All employees have of course been offered work in Denmark, which means a double blow to Jönköping. My question to Minister Isabella Lövin is how the government's high tax policy in a fierce global competition results in the Swedish companies being able to contribute to the operations staying here, that the investments come and that the employees stay here and are not tempted to leave the country.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-254	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I regret, of course, that employees in Jönköping are now seeing their lives change in a very dramatic way. At the same time, I am very pleased with the development of jobs that we are seeing in Sweden since the government took office. That's over 120,000 new jobs. Last year was the first year in a very long time that more companies moved to Sweden than left Sweden. It is about the investment climate and the business environment. We top the Forbes list of the most attractive countries in the world to do business in. We are ahead of Hong Kong, Ireland and other countries that are considered to be very beneficial. We have a very good business environment. We're attractive. We have a stable economy and good access to labour, which brings jobs here. So we are having a very positive development right now.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-257	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the increased inequality in Swedish schools is involving many Social Democrats today. My question, too, is about that. Equivalence was dismantled at an even faster pace with the freedom of establishment of free schools, which gives them the opportunity to make profits and which continues to stimulate over-establishment, not least in the metropolitan regions. We see the effects of this in the Stockholm region. At the municipal level, schools compete to attract pupils to receive school money. That is where the main competition is today with regard to students.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-260	Mr President, I would like to It's really a good thing to be a minister for these issues when there's so much interest in the lack of equivalence in school– I'm very happy about that. Lawen Redar points to something very important. The possibility of establishment that exists in the Swedish school system is one of the contributing reasons why we see that there are major difficulties in planning. For upper secondary school it is a real problem. We see that the lack of equivalence also takes the form that for many students there is actually no possibility to choose the upper secondary school programme they want to go because it is difficult to establish upper secondary school programmes in all parts of Sweden. This leads to severe consequences for pupils but also for those companies that need labour. No, there needs to be major changes at system level. I reply as I have done before: The Commission's proposal will be very important because we see that the countries that have managed to achieve good equivalence and increased knowledge results have worked in a strong collaboration across society.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-263	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Development Isabella Lövin. In Turkey, Islamist fundamentalists recently shouted: Christians to Beirut and the Alawites to the grave! Alawites, Armenians and Assyrians are some of the vulnerable minorities in Turkey. The Alawites have been subjected to various abuses throughout history just because they are alawites. Since 1989, the situation has improved much for the Alawites, but they are still not recognised as a minority in Turkey. In 2016, Sweden provided 74.1 million SEK in assistance to Turkey for public administration, democracy, human rights and gender equality. My question to the Minister for Development is: How can Swedish aid support the struggle of the Alawites and the other minorities for equality and human rights?
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-267	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anders Österberg! I would like to begin by saying that I very much share Anders Österberg's concern about the democratic development of Turkey. There are many clouds of concern, not least regarding the situation of the opposition, of civil society, of the media and of minority groups. Through our assistance to Turkey, we support projects aimed at increasing respect for human rights and combating anti-discrimination in general with a view to also promoting Turkey's cultural and religious diversity. We support a large network of NGOs, NGOs, where alawite organisations are members. We provide support to the European School of Politics, where alawite NGOs also participate. At the same time, it is important to say that our support is not earmarked for different minorities, but it goes there where Sida estimates that it makes the best impact.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-271	Mr President, I would like to My question comes from Tea, who is 17 years old. She's been praoing at my place for two weeks and she's sitting in the gallery today. The question goes to the minister of high school. The Swedish school requires that the mission of knowledge and democracy must weigh equally. If we want a society based on freedom, equality and the equal value of all people, the school's democratic mission must receive as much attention as its knowledge mission, regardless of programmes and students. I have read that it is often the case that the preparatory programmes take the mission of democracy more seriously by the teachers giving the floor to the class, having more open discussion and talking about the importance of being able to analyse, while the teaching on other programmes is more about right and wrong and less about discussions. Expectations are also higher for students on study preparation programs.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-275	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Christina Örnebjär, and especially thanks to Tea for this very nice question! In fact, this is the first time that I have been asked here in Parliament's pulpit about the school's most important process, namely the teaching – the meeting between teachers and pupils. The Swedish school is based on a very secure foundation of a democracy mission that is extremely important. Without it, the school would be a completely different school. The knowledge mission and the democracy mission should of course go hand in hand. If the mission of democracy works, yes, then the students learn better and vice versa. The teacher who has gained the great trust from all over society in teaching has a huge responsibility to see the students as the individuals they are and in his teaching really promote that the students get the conditions they should have, whether they are boys or girls and whether they are on a vocational or university preparatory programme. This ensures the government through a major investment in national school development programmes that have the task of focusing on teaching.
i-a2a9ed26a7cd9d0c-279	I would like to thank the participating ministers and Members for attending this exciting Question Time. That concludes Question Time.
