i-9875f2aa2698a66e-0	Mr President, I would like to Let me first welcome to the gallery of this House the people proposed by the Constitutional Committee to be elected as national auditors: Director General of Statistics Sweden Stefan Lundgren, Director General of the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, Helena Lindberg, and Statskontoret Director General Ingvar Mattson. Welcome to the Riksdag! The Parliament's Constitutional Committee, after a very extensive recruitment work, has the honour and the pleasure of proposing new auditors to the House. These are three people that we are convinced are in a very good position to give the Swedish National Audit Office a fresh start, stability and peace of mind. Before I describe the three candidates a little closer, I would like to give a background to today's elections. During the summer of 2016, Dagens Nyheter revealed various errors and imperfections at the Swedish National Audit Office. Two out of three national auditors resigned, and also the third national auditor, Margareta Åberg, has announced that she intends to leave her post when new national auditors are in place. I would like to take this opportunity to express my warm thanks to Margareta Åberg for her valuable contributions in autumn 2016. She chose to announce her resignation as a national auditor in order to enable the authority to get a full restart. That was responsible and wise of her. At the same time, she offered to remain in office until new auditors can enter. That too was responsible and important. The Swedish National Audit Office is one of Sweden's most important authorities and is an important part of the Swedish supervisory authority. Being a national auditor thus means holding one of the most important offices in the state. In connection with media reporting on the Swedish National Audit Office, several issues were debated, including the process of recruitment and introduction of national auditors. I would therefore like to briefly describe the recruitment work of the House and point out that the process has developed in different ways. The work has been carried out in the preparation delegation of the Constitutional Committee, which consists of one member from each of the eight parliamentary parties. I would like to extend warm thanks to Members for their good cooperation, which has resulted in a unanimous proposal. A warm thank you also to the KU office, which has done a very extensive job. The preparatory delegation has sought proposals for candidates in a number of ways. There has been advertising in the daily press, which has resulted in some 20 expressions of interest. Nominations have also been received from different people. The list of candidates has been supplemented in the course of the work, for example by proposals from the preparatory delegation's own members. We have searched in groups where national auditors have often been recruited, but we have also broadened this to other groups. We have developed lists of leading authorised auditors, senior civil servants and academics with audit skills. In total, we have gone through over 90 different names. In December, the preparation delegation conducted interviews with a number of candidates, and on the basis of these interviews we continued with some of the candidates. One recruitment company carried out a second opinion with the three candidates that the KU is now proposing and reported its work to the preparation delegation. The delegation then met the three candidates again, reviewed the outcome of the recruitment company's analysis and discussed various issues related to the Swedish National Audit Office. The preparatory delegation decided to recommend to the committee to propose that the Parliament elect these three. The committee then unanimously decided to propose to the Riksdag that the three be elected as national auditors. Before this decision was taken, a thorough security clearance was carried out. In the preparation delegation's discussions with the three final candidates, we have made some contributions about the Swedish National Audit Office and its future. It has covered five areas: the division of labour between the national auditors, the relationship between the Swedish National Audit Office and the Riksdag, the development of the annual audit, the focus of the efficiency audit, and issues of conflict of interest, compliance and recruitment. We think it is important to clarify what expectations we from the Riksdag have for the new auditors and their future work, while at the same time maintaining the constitutional independence of the auditors when it comes to deciding what is to be reviewed, how the review is to be carried out and what conclusions are to be drawn from the review. It is important that the Riksdag as the principal assume its responsibility for the Swedish National Audit Office. We will therefore ensure that the Riksdag gives a good introduction to the conditions that apply to the assignment in relation to the Riksdag. The idea is also that there will be a seminar in the Riksdag later this spring with the title To sum up, the process has developed in a number of ways. We have carried out a very extensive search, in more categories than before. We have done a more thorough analysis of what the KU is asking for and what the KU is not asking for. We have conducted more extensive interviews than before and have developed a special interview template, inspired by, among other things, the Judges' Board's interviews with judges candidates. In the light of the strengthened global situation, we have carried out more extensive screenings of the candidates than before. We have developed carefully thought-out and documented co-sponsors to clarify our expectations of the national auditors. Björn von Sydow and I have participated in staff meetings at the Swedish National Audit Office to keep employees informed about the recruitment work. We have ensured that the Riksdag takes its share of responsibility for the introduction of the new auditors. Overall, our assessment is that these many measures have led to a more solid process and better conditions for the new auditors to get into the work in a good way. Let me introduce the three candidates. Stefan Lundgren was born in 1952 and Director General of Statistics Sweden since 2009. SCB has approximately 1,400 employees. Stefan Lundgren is Associate Professor in Economics from Stockholm School of Economics. Previously, he has been finance director and head of the Economic Department at the Ministry of Finance. From 2003 to 2009, he was Managing Director of the Association of Business and Social Sciences. Helena Lindberg is Director General of the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness since 2009 and led the creation of the agency through a merger of the Swedish Emergency Response Agency, the Swedish Civil Protection Agency and the Swedish Board of Psychology. MSB has about 850 employees. Previously, she has been a subject specialist and head of expedition and justice in the Ministry of Defence. She is a lawyer, born in 1960 and has served as an assessor at the Svea Court of Appeal. Ingvar Mattson was born in 1963 and Director General of Statskontoret since 2014. Statskontoret has approximately 70 employees. Ingvar Mattson is a Ph.D. in Political Science. He has held various non-political positions within the Riksdag, including as Head of the Treasury Committee and Deputy Head of the Office of the Constitutional Committee. In his work, he has also been involved in issues relating, among other things, to Parliament's relationship with the Swedish National Audit Office. The committee proposes that Stefan Lundgren be elected administrative auditor. He is the oldest and now leads the largest authority of the three. KU proposes that all three national auditors take office on 15 March 2017. In our recruitment work, we have valued leadership experience highly. We have particularly highly valued experience in leading large knowledge authorities in change and turbulence. We have also striven for one of the national auditors to be a truly senior person who at the same time can be stable, clear and fearless. Broad and in-depth experience of public administration is also an important merit. It is important to know how public administration works and what the interaction between policy and management looks like. One thing we have learned from this summer's turbulence is that the Riksdag needs to develop its contacts with the Swedish National Audit Office. We have therefore seen it as important that among the three national auditors there is someone with knowledge and experience of how the Riksdag works and what the Riksdag wants with the Swedish National Audit Office. The three complement each other in terms of educational background. One is an economist, one is a lawyer and one is a political scientist. Two of them have a PhD. If the House follows the proposal of the Constitutional Committee, our assessment is that the National Audit Office will receive three highly qualified national auditors. Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee therefore proposes that the Riksdag elects Stefan Lundgren, Helena Lindberg and Ingvar Mattson. KU also proposes that all are elected as of 15 March 2017 and that Stefan Lundgren be elected as national auditor with administrative responsibility.
i-G3qpp4pV6CkKHGpRvWVrCs	The Constitutional Committee has prepared the question of the election of new national auditors after Susanne Ackum, Ulf Bengtsson and Margareta Åberg.
i-Tpm2Mqb7ToNwEUwXUc2ytZ	中 that the Riksdag appoints Stefan Lundgren as national auditor with administrative responsibility.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-28	I would like to congratulate you three newly elected national auditors and wish you every success in your important work. You're welcome to get up.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-29	We have heard so much good about you, but now we have also seen what you look like. Good luck in your important work!
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-30	Before we start the debate, I would like to welcome the representatives of the diplomatic corps to the foreign policy debate.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-31	Mr President, honourable Members, parliamentary veterans, representatives of the diplomatic corps and dear listeners! The surrounding world and Sweden are in a paradoxical time with rapid and major changes. Ten years ago, half of today's 65 million people were on the run. Syria was a tourist destination. Russia had not tried to change the borders of Georgia and Ukraine by force. China's economy was a quarter of what it is today. Brexit was an unknown concept. There were no tweets from the President of the United States because Twitter had just been created. Rapid global change can spread a fluid fear while laying the foundations for decisive progress. Every minute I speak, about 120 people leave extreme poverty. The Paris Agreement and Agenda 2030 pave the way for a sustainable future. Thanks to the peace agreement in Colombia, South America can become a continent of peace. Our present, where dark clouds coexist with light sparkles, can be illustrated by an indigenous report. A grandfather says to his grandchild: A struggle between two wolves is taking place within me. One is evil; he is anxiety, arrogance, egotism and lies. The other is good; he is faith in the future, peace, compassion and truth. It's a struggle that's going on within all of us. The child asks: Which wolf wins? Grandpa answers, the one you're feeding. In a difficult time, Swedish foreign policy rests on a solid value-based basis of human rights, democracy and multilateral cooperation. Simply putting one's own country first would be selfish and unwise. What is good for the world is good for Sweden. Mr President, I would like to After the end of the war in 1945, a multilateral world order was built based on universal values. As the world's centre of gravity shifts, the world order to which we have become accustomed is being challenged. Standards, balances of power and global stability are affected. To navigate among today's challenges, we need to see how peace, freedom and reconciliation can be achieved in our part of the world. That is why the European Union remains so important to us, and the government will make a strong contribution to a Europe that is coherent and principled. Developments within the EU and in the world around us are putting cooperation to the test. Economic recovery is uneven and xenophobic and populist forces have been strengthened. This autumn, the Prime Minister and the President of the European Commission are hosting a Gothenburg Summit on Fair Jobs and Growth. We need a more social Europe with functioning labour markets, efficient and sustainable security systems and increased social dialogue. Migration issues have become increasingly important, as you well know, and the European Union must act together for a sustainable European asylum system in which all Member States share responsibility. We need an increased focus on the root causes of escape and conflict prevention, as well as increased support for UNHCR and IOM. The government regrets that the UK has chosen to leave the EU, and we want continued good relations. When negotiations begin, we will act on the basis of what best serves the common European cooperation and Sweden's interests. The EU is our most important foreign policy arena. The Union's global strategy has an important role to play in managing crises by both civilian and military means. Sweden shall actively work to strengthen the common security and defence policy. We welcome the enhanced cooperation between the EU and NATO and want the EU to cooperate even more closely with the UN. The government is prioritising both the strengthening of the Eastern Partnership and the continuation of the enlargement process in the Western Balkans and with Turkey. Cooperation with Turkey remains of strategic importance for the EU, but developments in the country in terms of human rights, respect for the rule of law and the situation of the opposition and the media are deeply worrying. A renewed peace process that resolves the Kurdish question is necessary. It would contribute to peace and security both in Turkey and regionally. The objective of reunification of Cyprus is within reach. We encourage the parties to continue their efforts to reach the end. Mr President, I would like to Building security in collaboration with other countries, regions and organisations is a cornerstone of Swedish security policy. Sweden's foreign and security policy is based on cohesion in the EU and increased cooperation on a broad front in the Nordic and Baltic regions, within the UN and the OSSE, with NATO and through a strong transatlantic link. Sweden's security policy line is solid. Our military freedom of alliance serves us well and contributes to stability and security in northern Europe. It requires an active, broad and responsible foreign and security policy combined with enhanced defence cooperation, especially with Finland, and a credible national defence capability. Sweden will not remain passive if a disaster or an attack strikes another EU country or a Nordic country. We expect these countries to act in the same way if Sweden is affected. Our country should therefore be able to provide and receive support, both civilian and military. Our first line of defence is a foreign policy in which we operate through diplomacy, mediation, conflict prevention and confidence building measures. This increases Sweden's ability to work for relaxation and stability both in our neighbourhood and globally. The conditions for protecting the population and maintaining the most important social functions have changed. Military threats, armed conflicts, cyber threats, terrorism and violent extremism as well as organised crime create constant risks in a more complex and interconnected world, but also pandemics, antibiotic resistance and natural disasters affect Sweden's security. To meet these developments, the government adopted in January a national security strategy based on our national interests. Modern society is increasingly dependent on a well-functioning energy supply and robust transport and infrastructure. Climate change poses a threat to humanity's existence. Inequality, environmental threats, water issues and resource shortages are other long-term challenges. The implementation of the strategy is a priority and lays the foundations for enhanced security work. The ruthless terrorist attacks around the world underline the need for solidarity and deeper cross-border cooperation. International collaboration also facilitates the prevention of radicalisation. Mr President, I would like to In a serious world situation, the government encourages greater responsibility from global players such as the United States, China, India and Russia, both among themselves and with the rest of us. However, Russia's actions, when expressed in military acts, misinformation and influence operations, are aggressive and increase tensions. Our response is guided by principles and values. It is characterised by firmness, clarity and long-termness and promotes European unity. Our position is based on the desire to protect international law and the European security regime. Domestic policy developments in Russia are also negative with authoritarian rule, a civil society under pressure and a lack of respect for human rights. Sweden needs a broad approach in relation to Russia. We shall maintain a political dialogue, work long-term and call on Russia to cooperate instead of confrontation and promote contacts between citizens – and we shall do so without compromising our principled position. Sweden condemns Russia's aggression against Ukraine and illegal annexation of Crimea. The sanctions shall remain in place as long as the reasons for their introduction remain. By supporting Ukraine's reform efforts and safeguarding its sovereignty and territorial integrity under international law, we are contributing to its efforts to move closer to the EU. This year Sweden is taking over the presidencies of both the Barents Council and the Council of the Baltic Sea States. We want to see a Baltic Sea area characterised by respect, trust and security. Cooperation to enhance security and meet challenges such as environmental threats, as well as better conditions for regional development and inter-people contacts. Sweden has and will have a close relationship with the USA. The relationship with the new US government is also important for our trade and for our security. But the White House's actions raise questions about the role of the United States in the world. We believe that Sweden, the EU and the US have everything to gain by working for a rule-based world order, by standing up for common standards and values and by tackling global challenges together. Canada is becoming an increasingly important partner for both Sweden and the EU, not least through the CETA Free Trade Agreement and the Strategic Partnership Agreement. Our goal of renewing relations with Latin America has been welcomed in the region and an action plan for enhanced cooperation is presented this spring. Asia is the engine of growth in the global economy, and it invests heavily in the technologies of the future. With our commitment to Asia, we want to contribute both to sustainable development and to democracy and respect for human rights. The relationship with China is developing, but regional security tensions and the situation in terms of democracy and human rights are worrying. Sweden's cooperation with India is deepened, the EU's free trade negotiations with several ASEAN countries are welcomed, and we are in favour of an ambitious agreement with Japan. Sweden continues to work towards peaceful and sustainable development in Afghanistan. We maintain our civil and military engagement and support women's participation in peace and reconciliation processes. In 2017, the Government intends to decide on a new strategy for development cooperation with Myanmar. It can contribute to peaceful, inclusive and democratic development in the country, including for the Rohingya minority group. Sweden's strong ties with African countries are further developed in line with the demand for diversified trade and modern development cooperation. Concrete contributions to peace, security and development are made through our long-term development cooperation, but also through the troops contribution to Minusma in Mali and participation in the EU's efforts in the Sahel and in the Horn of Africa. We are strengthening our partnership with the African Union and sub-regional organisations in the prevention of armed conflicts. Mr President, I would like to The Syrian regime and its allies have implemented a brutal military strategy, and Sweden is committed to contributing to a long-term solution, including by giving women a voice in the peace process. Our comprehensive assistance consists of both emergency and long-term assistance, including to the neighbouring countries that have received a large number of refugees. The UN must play a central role. Our seat on the Security Council offers a forum where we can work for ceasefire, humanitarian access, return to peace negotiations and accountability for war crimes, serious abuse and the use of chemical weapons. The government intends to develop a new five-year aid strategy for Iraq in the spring. Our contribution to the global coalition against Daish is doubled from 35 to 70 people. This year it has been 50 years since Palestine was occupied. Sweden continues to work for a solution in Israel – the Palestine conflict and appoints a special envoy. The fact that hope can turn into despair was evident during my visit to Palestine in December, and this characterises the consultations that Sweden has with nearly 150 Israeli and Palestinian civil society organisations. The Security Council Resolution 2334 on Israeli settlements and the International Conference in Paris in January can at best create the conditions for a renewed peace process and a two-state solution. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's feminist foreign policy produces results for women, girls and entire communities. Our work has helped some twenty countries to produce laws and proposals to strengthen gender equality, that hundreds of thousands of women and girls have avoided unsafe abortions and unwanted pregnancies, that some ninety local communities have abandoned female genital mutilation and that 65 countries and organisations have committed themselves to gender-based violence. The priority of sexual and reproductive health and rights is reinforced. The fact that we were elected by such a wide margin to the UN Security Council was a receipt of the government's global policy. During the Swedish Presidency in January, the UN Secretary-General supported our ambition: that the UN should work peace-building and conflict prevention, promote dialogue as a tool and promote women's active influence in peace processes. We are a critical UN friend working for a reformed and more transparent Security Council. A more modern, efficient and equal UN system is central. We will be the leader in implementing Agenda 2030 globally as well as in Sweden. All policy areas should contribute to a sustainable and fair world. The objective of the Non-Proliferation Treaty is a nuclear-free world. A move away from this goal must be prevented, and the nuclear states have a special responsibility. The government welcomes the fact that a clear majority of the world's countries have taken a stand for negotiations on a global nuclear ban. The nuclear agreement with Iran is crucial for non-proliferation. North Korea is challenging the international community with its nuclear ambitions. Sweden is and remains a global leader in development policy. Our humanitarian aid of SEK 6.5 billion makes us the world's seventh largest donor in nominal terms. The oceans play a crucial role in the global climate system, and if development is not slowed down there are more plastic than fish in our seas by 2050. In June, Sweden and Fiji are hosting the first major UN conference on how to save the environment in the oceans. Alarm reports about the climate are reaching us more and more often. In 2017, Sweden and the EU must show leadership in the implementation of the Paris Agreement. Sweden will become one of the first fossil-free welfare countries. Our contribution to developing countries' climate action is one of the world's largest, and it is therefore important for the transformation of other countries. The Government maintains that during the term of office, the aid will amount to 1 per cent of the Swedish budget. Mr President, I would like to Increased equality in the labour market, decent working conditions, increased productivity and inclusive economic growth are important goals for Sweden. The Prime Minister's Global Deal initiative is followed up in cooperation with the ILO and the OECD. At a time when protectionism is increasing and free trade is being called into question, Sweden is defending free and fair world trade where the multilateral trading system of the WTO is the backbone. The government will work to ensure that the EU enters into progressive free trade agreements. Sweden is one of the world's most competitive countries, and Swedish exports employ almost 1 1⁄2 million people. Our foreign trade continues to be strengthened through Sweden's export strategy, regional export centres and Team Sweden. Sweden will maintain a strict and effective export control of armaments, and the government will come back with a legislative proposal in the spring in order to tighten the rules for exports to non-democrats. Our work to strengthen respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law was presented in the letter sent to Parliament in December. Spring presents new country-specific reports on the situation in these areas in all regions of the world. The reports highlight issues such as the right to work for equitable remuneration, discriminatory legislation and violence against women, racism and discrimination on grounds of ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity or for other reasons. Free speech is under attack worldwide, and journalists and human rights defenders are imprisoned and persecuted. Sweden supports those affected and works to bring those responsible to justice. Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Oxford Dictionaries appointed post-truth as the 2016 words of the year. A prerequisite for both a functioning democracy and constructive cooperation between states is that we talk to and not about each other, honor agreements and allow ideas to compete, that research, facts and the media are respected and that we recognise the wise points of others. I would therefore like to conclude this year's foreign declaration by thanking the Left Party for constantly reminding us of the worrying developments in Turkey. The fact that Sweden should emphasise human rights in its relations with the outside world is something that the Liberals never let us forget. In the fight against what may be the worst that mankind has come up with – nuclear weapons – the Center is to be trusted. The Moderates are and have been the driving force when Sweden stands up for free trade. Over the years, Swedish aid has had a reliable friend in the Christian Democrats. The government does not share values or views on the world with the Swedish Democrats and we exclude cooperation, but we respect your place in the Riksdag. Thank you to all the pushers in civil society and in the peoples' movements! Your work in the field and with opinion formation makes a difference in a difficult time. We will be seen again in trying discussions about how Sweden can contribute to a world where human dignity is the foundation and anxiety is defeated with faith in the future.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-104	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. In this year's foreign declaration, the government has changed its wording on Russia. Therefore, my question will mainly dwell on this means that the government has changed its view of Russia. Last year it was the biggest challenge to the European security regime since the end of the Cold War. That's how you look at Russia. This year there is a description and criticism, but there are also wordings that we should have a broad approach. In the light of the fact that the Foreign Minister is on his way to Moscow, I would like to ask the Foreign Minister what this broad approach means and whether the government has changed its view of Russia. We are all concerned both about internal developments in Russia and about Russia's actions, which are taking an increasing place in the arena of world politics. I do not criticise; I think it is reasonable and good that the Foreign Minister will meet his colleague in Moscow. I assume, however, that the Foreign Minister will use the meeting to make clear the differences in values that our countries have and will continue to make very clear the demands that we have on Russia regarding both the illegal annexation of Crimea and Eastern Ukraine, Georgia and the actions in Syria. I'd like some clarification. Does this mean that one has changed one's vision? Is a broad approach a way of trying to normalise relations with Russia?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-111	Mr President, I would like to The short answer to Karin Enström's question is: No, there is no change in our view of Russia. But we said right from the start, when we go to d e, that we need different time perspectives. The fact that Russia will one day move in a democratic direction and begin to respect human rights, civil society organisations and free media may seem impossible today, but we must invest in people-to-people contacts and support and back up those who continue to work faithfully for change. This is what we do. We also need political contacts in order to be able to say what we think straight to the point. I think it was very clear what our policy is. We believe that the sanctions provisions must remain in place as long as the Crimea agreements are not complied with. We believe that we must be critical and also help Ukraine to succeed. Ask anyone in the EU circle! They know that we are at the forefront of this work. We are a faithful friend of Ukraine. We are those who are constantly taking the initiative to discuss how we can support Ukraine. We are also the most active in the policy of sticking to sanctions against Russia. We are becoming the last country to have a direct dialogue with, for example, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. That's not good enough anymore. We must be able to speak directly to Russia and also cooperate where it is possible to cooperate, for example in the Arctic, where we need to solve environmental problems. These are environmental problems that Russia also has. We shall promote and strengthen what they contribute constructively to.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-116	Mr President, I would like to Dialogue and putting forward face to face our criticisms and conditions for a better relationship with Russia, I am in favour of this. But I really want to make sure that we do not – which may be tempting and as we have seen that several countries have started to do – themselves begin to twirl the demands to have a more normal and pleasant relationship. I hope that the Foreign Minister can assure me that it is not a question of backing up or of starting to find a lot of other areas in which we can work together in a pleasant way, as long as Russia is not prepared to comply with the agreements we have made and the demands that we are making, not least the conditions that have been set for the lifting of sanctions. I would like answers on this from the Foreign Minister today.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-119	Mr President, I would like to As can be seen from the media campaigns against me, I am rather perceived as a hawk in these contexts. Russia perceives that we have had far too strong a tone and attitude. I think they have understood exactly where we stand in terms of EU policy and our own position both on Ukraine and on cooperation and cohesion in the European Union and that we are consistent. The introduction of a sanctioning regime is part of a strategy that we must have towards Russia. Then we must be consistent and persevering. You can be absolutely sure that I will express our views, which, thankfully, we have a great deal of agreement in the Swedish Parliament.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-122	Mr President, I would like to As in previous years, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has talked about the importance of cooperation and of working together to promote human rights in order to help the people in need together. That, of course, is positive. The problem is that, although they say that they respect the Swedish Democrats in the Swedish Parliament, they still do not talk about cooperation with us. In his speech, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that we are talking to and not about each other. Then I wonder, Mr President, how this rhymes with trying to promote human rights and a good dialogue between different parties who want the same thing.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-124	Mr President, I would like to This is essentially due to the fact that we have incredibly different starting points and values. We do not share the same view of the world. It is clear that it is difficult for us to cooperate with a party that does not want to respect the right of asylum and which, on most issues, totally deviates from what we stand for. It is very worrying, but we have taken a clear stand. We believe that we should express our views. We'll stand by our politics. We must argue against the Swedish Democrats when you bring forward opinions that we believe are xenophobic and at all inconsistent with our ideals and values and our party programme.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-127	Mr President, I would like to If you talk about what deviates, the Swedish democrats do not make a bill in the aid budget as the government does, and we spend much more on humanitarian aid during the first year. Of course we have some deviations, but given our view that we are going to help as many as possible for each bet tax crown, I think we can agree if the government is interested in helping people in need. At the same time, however, the government can talk about the positive aspects of good relations with the repressive state of Turkey. You can even send your so-called feminist delegation to Iran wearing hijab to talk to them. How does this rhyme with feminist foreign policy? How does this rhyme with trying to promote human rights?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-131	Mr President, I would like to The most important question is: How do we change the world? We believe in cooperation, and we believe in cooperation in Europe. We believe that we must actually relate to the outside world and establish dialogue wherever possible. Sometimes the changes take a long time. But we also have completely different views on European cooperation, and you do not believe that. This is what has transformed many of the eastern countries of Europe into democracies. Now we are sitting around the same table to find a common policy. The most important thing we can do at present is to ensure that we defend international cooperation – multilateralism as a working method in democracies. That is what we are fully involved in, and I would also say that we have been quite successful. It is interesting that all parties now relate to the concept of feminist foreign policy. So it seems to be well established, and I am pleased about that.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-133	Mr President, I would like to We could listen to a toneed-down foreign policy declaration - at least what I heard. Perhaps it is also marked by the government's declared desire to be a comfort creator, not least in the Security Council. Mr President, I would like to There are several points on which we nevertheless agree. It is right that we must navigate for peace, freedom and reconciliation in our part of the world. But let's see how the government says it wants to navigate. We agree that the EU is a key player in our actions. We agree with the image of a rule-based world order as the basis for our work – the multilateral structure. But, Mr President, does the military freedom of alliance really serve us in today's environment and in today's world? Why, Mr President, is the government taking the unilateral path? Why does the government not take the path of solidarity to ensure security, and then it is not only about Sweden but also our neighbours in the Nordic and Baltic countries? Why, Mr President, does the government take this route?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-138	Mr President, I would like to I can answer with a counter-question, Kerstin Lundgren. Why does the Center Party, which has always stood up in the fight against nuclear weapons, want to join and join a NATO nuclear umbrella? It is incomprehensible, and especially with a new American commander in chief who we do not know at all how he will use NATO. This is another unknown matter. What will President Trump want to do with NATO cooperation? I suppose you must be rather nervous, thinking that NATO is the answer to everything. I repeat what I said last time. If you think you only have one hammer – if it's the only tool – everything starts to look like a nail. If you believe that the answer to all these security policy challenges that I have listed is NATO, then it is a pity for you. In fact, we need to be able to work much wider. We have never been a comforter or unilateral. We say that cooperation is the most important thing. But we don't want to go under a nuclear umbrella. We do not want to go into this organisation, which we do not actually know exactly what it will look like in the future today. We will be able to choose for ourselves what collaborations we will enter into, and we will do so. We have excellent cooperation agreements with Finland, of course, but also with other Nordic and Baltic countries, with Germany, with the United Kingdom and with the United States. It gives us the freedom to act, and it actually also provides protection for our own citizens.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-141	Mr President, I would like to I did not hear the answer from the Foreign Minister to what it is that creates security and serves us well. The nuclear damage that I also share is an issue that is that we can now clearly see that the new Russian deployments are a direct threat to us. Although we are militaryly non-aligned, Mr President, this has happened. So our military freedom of alliance stands there as a unique one, but around us the world is changing. Then I and the Center Party ask: why, Mr President, do we choose today not to see that it is guarantees and solidarity that build security, not unilateral solutions?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-143	Mr President, I would like to At the moment, we do not know anything about these guarantees. That's the truth. That depends on how the United States acts in NATO. It's a little shaky, as we understand it. We have said that now is not the time to change our security policy doctrine, in such a troubled time. Now is the time for collaboration. Now is the time to strengthen our own defence, which we are in the process of doing. And now is the time to hold on to our military alliance freedom and the line we have chosen, and not least together with our great and important neighbour Finland. These are still the three important pillars of our security policy. It gives us flexibility and the opportunity to choose for ourselves, and it also gives us the greatest possible freedom and security.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-145	Mr President, I would like to Margot Wallström has now been Sweden's Foreign Minister for two and a half years, and we see clear impressions in several areas. There are many of us who have applauded when Mrs Wallström has highlighted women's rights, not least in conflict areas. We have applauded the recognition of Palestine. And it was liberating when Mrs Wallström spoke clearly two years ago about Saudi Arabia in this House. In other areas, however, it has been considerably more difficult to see any prints. After two and a half years with a government of social democrats and environmentalists, a single comma has still not been changed in the legislation governing Swedish arms exports. Arms exports to dictatorships and belligerent states have not only continued, but new business has been approved. Last year, authorisations were granted for Swedish arms exports to Saudi Arabia, to Thailand, to Qatar and to Pakistan. A new deal of SEK 11 billion was completed this summer with the warring dictatorship of the United Arab Emirates. These arms exports are in clear contrast to the rhetoric that we heard earlier today from the speaker's seat. Now the government, which is very much behind schedule, is finally to present a proposal for new legislation on arms exports. The rules for exports to non-democrats should be tightened. But behind these lukewarm words lies a very clear choice, where in reality the government has only two alternatives. That is why I would like to ask Mrs Wallström: do Mrs Wallström and her government, together with us in the Left Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats, want to ban arms exports to dictatorships? Or is it prepared to save arms exports to dictatorships together with the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-149	Mr President, I would like to We have had an investigation that has looked at this very point: how are we going to further tighten our internationally already stringent control legislation on arms exports? The investigation has looked at what you do with non-democrats, as it is called. Now that work is under way, and I will not anticipate it. I think this is difficult. It's difficult matter, and the moment you deal in weapons, you have a lot of dilemmas to deal with. That is the truth, and so it will remain; as long as Sweden chooses to continue to manufacture and sell weapons, dilemmas will be dealt with. The way forward is to ensure that legislation is as strict as it is at all possible. However, I do not want to anticipate this. The investigation has put forward a proposal, and it is currently being prepared at the Ministry of Justice and the Government Office.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-151	Mr President, I would like to I think this clearly highlights the problem of the government's foreign policy: when Mrs Wallström was in the speaker's seat on the platform, she spoke with great emphasis on feminism, human rights and freedom. Then she walked a few meters down to the speaker's seat on the floor, and then it suddenly sounds a whole different way. Then questions about fundamental values – if we are to arm dictatorships and belligerent states – are difficult. Then there are dilemmas. Sometimes foreign policy is obviously difficult, but sometimes it is also black and white – either Sweden sells arms to dictatorships or we don't. There are no grey areas there. Now I understand that Mrs Wallström does not want to look to the future and talk about the legislation that is coming. I would therefore like to ask Mrs Wallström about the past two and a half years. Mrs Wallström has now tried for two and a half years to pursue a feminist foreign policy. Does Margot Wallström think that Swedish arms exports have been an asset or a barrier to feminist foreign policy?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-153	Mr President, I would like to I believe that arms exports are always an obstacle. In fact, it is always an obstacle, for it contains so many dilemmas. Arms exports are an obstacle to discussing human rights, and our way of dealing with it has been to have as strict legislation as it is at all possible. If you ask me personally, Hans Linde, the answer is that I have opinions on the matter, but the government and Sweden have chosen to have an arms export and not to close it. Instead, we should have as strict a control as it can possibly be. Now we are also tightening it up to deal with exactly what you are describing, Hans Linde. It is therefore not at all contradictory; it is about dealing with reality as it stands. I believe that this will continue to be a very difficult debate, but I trust that we will be able to come up with more stringent legislation on non-democrats, as it is called in the KEX investigation. This is being prepared, and it will be shortly.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-155	Mr President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We can see that democracy is globally backing up for the eleventh year in a row. We also see in our neighbourhood that countries in Europe are becoming less and less democratic. As a warm friend of Europe, I find it incredibly worrying that countries such as Poland, Hungary and others are trampling on human rights. Already in last year's foreign policy declaration, the Red-Green Government's criticism of these countries was very lame. I note that the criticisms made the following year are even quieter. That is very regrettable, because it is a serious situation we are seeing at the moment. If you read the whole foreign declaration, you can see that the concept of a dictatorship is not mentioned at all, but it is called a country that violates freedom and non-democrats. It is also a new language. It is to be welcomed that this year the European Commission has nevertheless strongly criticised a country such as Poland, which has not only questioned women's right to free abortion and tried to weaken already bad legislation, but has also challenged the principles of the rule of law. The judiciary has been politicized. This is a highly topical issue, because as early as next week the deadline for the Polish Government – there has not been enough change, only Article 7 remains. I therefore wonder whether the Red-Green Government will be prepared, if the European Commission recommends it, to be one of the countries pushing for the introduction of political and economic sanctions against a country like Poland.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-159	Mr President, I would like to I think it is extremely important that we keep all possibilities open, Birgitta Ohlsson. This is an incredibly important issue for the whole cohesion of the European Union, as well as for our credibility and our platform of democratic values. That is why I believe that this will be an important and crucial step in how to deal with the issue on the part of the European Union. So far, the EU has shown little action, but has struggled to find in the Treaties a basis for actually acting against those countries which restrict, for example, the principles of the rule of law or democracy. I do not think I have used the concept of non-democrats. You are sometimes a little too busy with symbols and languages, I can think – the important thing is what we do. We have been very active in this debate in the European context, and we really need to find a way forward. I therefore do not exclude any measures, but I believe that we must keep all the paths open also in the case of Poland and Hungary and how these countries have been acting lately.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-162	Mr President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. If the destructive development we see in those countries where we thought democracy had long since prevailed – countries in Central and Eastern Europe that lived under the yoke of Communism for decades and that have gone towards freedom but now fall on many points – had been a sufficiently important issue for the government, I think it would have dared to be clear even in the foreign declaration. However, it has chosen to remain even quieter than last year, even though the attacks on human rights and freedoms have increased. This applies, in particular, to women's rights in several of these countries. As a Liberal, I find this deeply regrettable. Nevertheless, it is important that we in this House be able to state that the government will support the decision if the European Commission thinks next week that it should proceed with Article 7 against Poland. Can we have the Secretary of State's word on that? We all know that it is difficult to hold European governments together and make them dare to criticise individual members of the European Union. Therefore, some countries must dare to take the lead, and it would be very sad if Sweden did not belong to that core. So I hope we can get a clear yes on that front here and now.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-164	Mr President, I would like to I think it is incredibly important in the European context to try to work directly from country to country to influence development. Sometimes you are valiant to have a public debate, and sometimes you have to work directly bilaterally to try to influence development. I do not think that we should anticipate developments, but just say that we should be open to ensuring that the next step can be effective in adjusting and marking towards behaviour that calls into question our fundamental European values.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-165	Mr President, I would like to A foreign declaration has been presented, and it certainly raises a lot of questions. I appreciate the fact that Mrs Wallström is clear that the EU is our most important foreign policy arena. It is important that this continues to be emphasised, not least when a certain room in the UN Scraper in New York has a great focus. It is also important, according to Mrs Wallström's own words, that the government should make a strong contribution to a coherent and principled Europe. But how does Sweden do that? Yes, the solution presented here today is that we need a more social Europe. Why do we need it, Margot Wallström? In a Europe that lacks popular support, it seems rather de facto to work towards more and more regulation of the Swedish labour market and social security issues through decisions in Brussels. No, Mr President – with Trump in the White House, the need for a Europe that is coming together is even more urgent. Now we need a Europe that is capable of dealing with the unrest in the neighbourhood. We need a Europe united against Russian aggression, capable of dealing with the unrest that has flared up in the Balkans and which can bring about a European asylum system worthy of its name. Surely the government's response to aggression, unrest and the need for a common asylum policy cannot be spelled by a more social Europe, and above all not by increased dialogue between the social partners?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-168	Mr President, I would like to But how do you think, Sofia Damm, that we will have a Europe that citizens feel they can trust and that delivers concrete and necessary changes in their daily lives? I am talking about changes that mean that there will be more jobs and more investment in things that are really important for the future in Europe. This includes a social Europe which protects people's fundamental rights, which does not exploit the labour force unduly, which does not pay starvation wages and which accepts trade unions. It starts in everyday life. Then it goes all the way. The EU is still much of an elite project. There are ministers who go to Brussels but who do not anchor properly in the depths of the peoples of each country. We have to do both. We have to show that we can solve problems, but we also have to work on what is closest to people's concerns and everyday lives. Then it is incredibly important that we can create more jobs. It is important that we show that we can have an economic recovery and that we contribute to the security of the individual by providing the opportunity to support ourselves and to see a future for themselves and his family in Europe.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-171	Mr President, I would like to I do not believe that the EU is strengthened by more supranationality in the social field. Let's move on! Sweden's role in resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is emphasised and a special envoy is to be appointed. It is good that ambition exists. However, in view of the fact that the government has already been relegated by its actions to the spectator's seat in the conflict, this initiative also feels somewhat de facto. Instead of trying to repair the damaged relationship with the region's only functioning democracy, the government has prioritised its relationship with Iran. It is a theocratic dictatorship that wants to wipe out the state of Israel. Why, Mrs Wallström, is it important for the government to have good relations with dictatorships but not with democratic Israel?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-175	Mr President, I would like to First of all, have we not talked about supranationality in terms of a social Europe, Sofia Damm? We haven't mentioned that. Here, EU countries need to work together and find effective solutions. Secondly, we are certainly not in the spectator's seat. On the contrary, we have an important role to play because we have recognised Palestine. We have also, through the French initiative, met 150 civil society organisations, from both Israel and Palestine, and are in contact with them. We are actively contributing to the debate. We are invited and have an important role to play in contacts with Palestine. And our hand is still stretched out to Israel. We believe that a two-state solution is the way forward. And we continue to work hard for it, in the Security Council and in the EU context. We insist that it continues to be on our agenda so that we can show that we believe in a two-state solution and that that is what can lead to peace and security in the Middle East.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-178	Mr President, I would like to We have a new security policy situation. From the East, Russia continues its destabilising policy on a number of fronts. Warring in eastern Ukraine has intensified since the end of 2016. Russian support for the Asad regime in Syria continues tirelessly. Twenty per cent of Georgia's territory is still occupied by Russia, and the illegal annexation of Crimea is continuing. And reports of increased Russian activity in Libya testify that Russia is trying to further increase its influence in the Middle East. Russia also carries out cyber attacks, advocacy campaigns, espionage, offensive military exercise activities and much more. The objective is both explicit and clear, namely to reshape the existing world order. In the EU, we see extremists and populists on both the right and left flanks joining forces in undermining both the values that form the EU's foundation and confidence in the EU's ability to deliver. The EU may have its shortcomings, but it has also been an outstandingly successful project that has delivered cooperation and growth on our continent for 60 years. Above all, the EU has been a successful peace project. It has been so successful that many of us have taken peace for granted for a long time. The EU is now facing difficult and tangible, both internal and external, trials. The conflicts in the neighbourhood are many and complex. The fighting in Syria, Iraq and Yemen continues to reap innocent victims. And the conflicts around the world have driven over 65 million people fleeing their homes. We are increasingly concerned that the current administration in the White House does not really seem to recognise the value – even for the United States – of a united, strong, democratic and peaceful Europe. Mr President, I would like to In this new security policy context, a clear Swedish idea is needed, not only for what the world should look like – peaceful, filled with dialogue and collaboration and equality – but an idea of how we can get there through daily, practical action. Then it is not good enough, like the government, to catalogue all the challenges in a national security strategy but not to be ready to describe how or set aside funds to face these threats or to reconsider old dogmas. When Sweden needs to strengthen its defence capabilities, it is also not good enough, like the Social Democrats, to put party interests ahead of the nation's best interests and continue to avoid the NATO issue. Nor is it good enough, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs does, to devote almost all the time, effort and commitment to the work of the UN Security Council, which is unfortunately blocked on many crucial issues. Sweden must do its part. We have to do our part. Dialogue and values are good and noble, but we also need action. And in times like these, Sweden needs to prioritise and focus much more clearly. We must start from our national interests and our values. Sweden must strengthen its combined defence capabilities, both through increased defence grants and through a Swedish NATO membership. This raises the threshold for a potential attacker. We must also work in a structured way to increase the resilience of our society and of the population as a whole. We must give priority to cooperation with the countries in our neighbourhood. Together with our Nordic-Baltic neighbours, we will do everything in our power to safeguard security and peace in the Baltic Sea region. We need to work to hold Europe together and do our utmost, every day and every week, to gain acceptance for our positions and to build alliances that will make them effective and can be implemented. This is particularly true in terms of standing united and in terms of free trade and transparency. We must stand up for human rights and defend the Council of Europe – the European institution that is responsible for ensuring that they are respected – from corruption and undermining activities. This is particularly true when freedom of expression and other human rights are increasingly under threat. We must also work to influence the US administration, to preserve and strengthen the transatlantic link. This applies to trade and the economy as well as to cooperation on defence and security. Mr President, I would like to We need to reweight more of our aid, from development aid to emergency humanitarian aid. Saving lives and alleviating distress must be a priority, pending a solution to the difficult conflicts that we see around us. We need to work together within the framework of the EU, the OSSE, NATO and the UN. But we need to focus and prioritise. Mr President, I would like to We live in the time of rapid change and uncertainty. We are far from the end of history. Experience shows that we cannot take for granted basic stability, peace and the world order. We must work hard and work hard to ensure that the world order that has brought peace and growth to our continent for decades, and which has enabled our security, freedom and prosperity to continue. Then we have to invest in it. We must defend our values, not bow to the wave of pessimism and populism that is currently pouring over Europe. There is time and opportunity to continue, through hard and prioritised work, to defend the rule-based world order and the European security regime that we believe in.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-196	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, of course, the government will implement the security strategy. Implementation will be given priority during the remaining term of office and hopefully also after that in a new term of office. It is incredibly important that this should be put into practice, that all authorities and ministries should be involved in monitoring the strategy. I would therefore reject the fact that we would not want to implement it. Secondly, we are not spending all our time in the UN Security Council at all. It is important that, now that we are in there, we use our seat in the Security Council to bring about change. However, if we did so at the expense of our European commitment, then probably not one of the most important European think tanks would place us in second place in terms of influence in the European debate and being active in the European Union. Thirdly, I have a question for Karin Enström. The Moderates are now saying that they will cooperate with the Swedish Democrats at the same time as they are a historical pillar of Swedish EU policy. Can you lean without consequences towards the Swedish democrats who want to leave Europe? The Moderates grounded our support for Ukraine and the Eastern Partnership. Are you going to cooperate with a party that, like other far-right parties in Europe, has a murky view of Russian aggression and influence, without questions of security policy or free speech ever being touched? How are we gonna do that?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-199	Mr President, I would like to It is a good thing that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is asking for a reply. We need to discuss these issues. My criticism of the national security strategy does not concern the phenomenon itself. I thought it was a good idea from the start and looked forward to the important process of developing it. Now it was a very closed process that resulted in a document that I still call a directory of relevant threats, but it does not contain any fellow mail and rather little about how to meet these threats. Now the strategy will be implemented, and it will be up to the authorities. That's my main criticism. It would have been much better to develop it on a broad front with all parties in order for the strategy to have a broad political and also among our authorities. The national security strategy can certainly be developed. It may be a start, but it is not a national security strategy. By its very nature, the International Declaration will span the world. But my concern for the current government's foreign and security policy is that it is very broad. It applies to everyone and everything. We want to do good everywhere. That is a good thing, but in the difficult times in which we live, we need to be clearer about our priorities and our focus because resources will always be finite. Then I would like to say that this is not about cooperation with the Swedish Democrats. The Moderates go to elections on a collaboration with the Alliance. It is the Alliance that is our natural partner. We had joint government holdings for eight years, and that is what we are going to elections on. We have said that we are prepared to receive support also from the Swedish Democrats, who are one of many parties here in the Swedish Parliament.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-205	Mr President, I would like to It is true, Karin Enström, that you must always prioritise when you have finite resources. That is a correct and relevant argument. However, if I remember correctly, we invited the opposition parties to a discussion on how to develop the security policy strategy. Then no one wanted to come. It must be a little difficult afterwards to have a lot of comments about the strategy being too comprehensive or something else. But it is true that we also need to give priority to monitoring. I would have liked us to have had more time to discuss what views the Moderates want to share on how we should work together to give EU cooperation more force in the coming difficult years. I do not mean it as a criticism, but we have a concern about this with the Swedish Democrats. That is also quite clear.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-207	Mr President, I would like to I did not hear any question, but I would like to make it clear that, because we are in such a difficult situation, we naturally appreciate both discussions and consultations. The government has just appointed a defence committee that I understand has a very broad mission. You should not only look at military issues but also look at how we in Sweden can be better at rebuilding the total defense in order to get the broad endurance and resilience needed in our society. Then perhaps the national so-called security strategy can be a support. But it is not a strategy, and I want to make that clear.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-209	Mr President, I would like to I would like to dwell on the Foreign Minister's question about cooperation with the Swedish Democrats. As I understand it, the Moderates have gone out and said that they can consider working with the Swedish Democrats. This has given legitimacy to a racist, nationalist party in the Swedish parliament. Few politicians in this House have so clearly stood up to racism and nationalism as Fredrik Reinfeldt. Now it feels like you have gone a long way from this policy. I know Karin Enström as a very wise and sensible person in our work and in what I see externally. I really wonder how the Moderates can legitimise a party like the Swedish Democrats and say that you should take support of them when there are so many different issues where you fundamentally differ.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-212	Mr President, I would like to I'll be very clear. I will talk again about how we Moderates view the future and what we want to go to elections on. It is the joint alliance that is going to elections, and it is we who have a chance to break the harmful policy of the present government, where Sweden is going in the wrong direction. We are not talking about cooperating with either the Swedish Democrats or the Left Party, which we see as two extreme parties. We have said that, when we agree in the Alliance, we are prepared to receive the support of those parties that think we have a sensible policy. Today we are debating foreign and security policy. There we have been very clear in Allansen. It is based on our common values of democracy, human rights, equality and cooperation. We believe that all the challenges and problems we face can only be solved through international cooperation, primarily within the framework of the EU, but also within the framework of other organisations, such as the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSSE, and the UN, and through our Nordic cooperation. There the message is crystal clear from the Moderates and the Alliance that that's where we stand. On the other hand, I often feel that the Green Party is also wriggle within the framework of the government. Perhaps we will come back to a discussion on the reality of the concept of free trade, which is extremely crucial to us in the Alliance. I also feel that your partner party, the Social Democrats, has a clear picture that free trade and free trade agreements are the way forward. But now the Green Party is wagging ahead of the vote in the European Parliament.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-216	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I appreciate your clarity on foreign and security policy. You stand up for cooperation and multilateral cooperation. Nevertheless, I would argue that the Moderates are now legitimising the Swedish Democrats. This includes all the views that the Swedish Democrats stand for. I would like to ask one more question. Karin Enström mentioned in her speech that the Moderates want to reduce long-term development cooperation. This is, of course, extremely important in order to pull countries out of situations where there is easy conflict instead of moving forward from humanitarian disasters. We have moved in a different direction and rather want to marry humanitarian aid with long-term aid, which is highly internationally appreciated. Karin Enström wants to do the opposite and increase the funds. Is this a way to excuse oneself for wanting to reduce immigration in Sweden?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-219	Mr President, I would like to Sweden should be a generous aid country. In many cases we are very modern, and we are good at development aid. We have good cooperation plans and we do not see ourselves as donors with a recipient, but as partners and cooperation. However, in a world where over 65 million people are on the run, where we see natural disasters and people suffering from hunger, war and conflict, we say that today and in the near future we want to see a weight for humanitarian aid in order to alleviate the acute distress. If there are opportunities to make bridges over to development aid, that is a good thing. But when we have to choose, we have now said that we want to give more to those suffering from hunger, distress and misery today. It will naturally be a little less for development aid.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-221	Mr President, I would like to It's been a dark year in Turkey. Progress is rapidly going in the wrong direction, and it is becoming difficult to describe Erdo's rule as something other than dictatorship. Since the military coup in July 110 000 people have been dismissed, 37 000 people imprisoned and 106 media channels closed down. 1 125 associations, 104 foundations and 19 trade unions have been banned from operating. More than 35 elected mayors have been imprisoned and dismissed, and some ten elected parliamentarians are currently in prison. There are many of us in different parties who have been upset by developments in Turkey. We in the Left Party have gone in as sponsors of parliamentarians who have been prosecuted. We have written motions, written questions and interpellations, and we have spoken on demonstrations. I myself went down to Diyarbakhār in Turkey last autumn to meet people in civil society. Jonas Sjöstedt and Lotta Johnsson Fornarve have tried to enter a prison to meet the two party leaders who have been imprisoned. But we haven't heard much from Moderate foreign policy spokesperson Karin Enström. Over the past year, she has written zero interpellations, zero written questions and zero press releases on the situation in Turkey. She has not presented a single proposal in this House on how Sweden can support democracy and human rights in Turkey. Karin Enström is of course the Moderates and I suspect she is also the Alliance's candidate to become Minister of Foreign Affairs. If you search for Turkey, you get a single hit on the Moderate website. That's why Swedes in Turkey will vote for the Moderates. Clearly, it should not be done because the Moderates have a burning and glowing commitment to democracy and human rights. Please answer, Karin Enström, why you have been so quiet! Why have you been so quiet about the human rights violations in Turkey over the past year?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-226	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Linde on the work of the Left Party in supporting fellow party members. The situation in Turkey is very serious. We see a very negative development in many areas. There will be a balance when we consider what opportunities we have to influence Turkey back to a better and more positive direction. Just as Hans Linde describes, we have seen mass arrests, mass executions and an increasingly shrinking space for media, freedom of expression and opposition. I was in Istanbul last autumn and met with representatives of HDP who were in danger of being tried and put in prison. At the same time, not least through the EU, we are trying to maintain a dialogue with Turkey in order to influence it in the right direction. Undeniably, however, it looks dark, and it is very problematic. Here I believe that Europe is still the best way – but it looks darker and darker – to try to make demands and try to get Turkey back in a less undemocratic direction than what we are seeing now. Hans Linde doesn't have to be worried. We see the serious developments, and we are concerned. We believe that the line taken by the government and the European Union is the path on which we should continue. Unfortunately, however, the chances of success are becoming less and less.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-231	Mr President, I would like to Karin Enström says that she thinks the situation in Turkey is very serious. Obviously it is not serious enough for her to act in any way in this House. As I said, there have been zero interpellations, zero written questions and zero press releases. Not a single sharp proposal on how to support democracy in Turkey has been presented by the Moderates during the past year. This speaks clearly. Maybe we should be honest. Karin Enström did not go to Istanbul to meet the opposition; she went to Istanbul to participate in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, where the main speaker was President Erdo an. While Jonas Sjöstedt was standing outside the prison gates in Edirne to meet imprisoned parliamentarians, Karin Enström listened to the dictator who had imprisoned them. While I was sitting in Diyarbakar drinking tea with brave feminists, Karin Enström mingled with representatives of the Turkish regime. One still wonders a little, Karin Enström, if not that wine at that cocktail party had a little bitter aftertaste.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-234	Mr President, I would like to Is it at this level we're going to discuss the serious situation? If Hans Linde had been there, he would also have been able to taste the fruit juices that were served. Yes, it is true that several Turkish government representatives, including the President, spoke at the meeting. We were invited as parliamentarians together with parliamentarians from various European countries and from the United States – that is, all NATO Members' parliaments – and were given the opportunity to ask questions and express our concerns and concerns from our peoples about what is actually going on. It is good to pass this on to government representatives, but of course it is also good to meet representatives of Parliament in a country that is now heading in the wrong direction. I commend Hans Linde and the Left Party for being active. I'm not gonna make any cheap points. We must continue to influence Turkey and its government, but of course we must also support the forces that exist.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-237	Mr President, I would like to A few days ago, as you know, a Swedish delegation went to Iran with the Prime Minister and the Minister for Trade. The visit rightly raises a lot of questions from both signed and numerous exiles and Iranians who are still in the country. Iran is not just any country. It is an Islamic dictatorship that frequently violates fundamental human rights and freedoms. The Swedish so-called feminist government is then suited to go there, wearing a veil, to conduct conversations. As I mentioned earlier in a change of line, I think this is a bit strange when, at the same time, you cannot hold talks with Sweden's fastest growing party and the third largest party in the Swedish parliament. The government submits to what can be seen as the main symbol of Islamic oppression. And no, my friends, it is not just about custom or culture; it is about coercion. It is a coercion on which the Persian people today are forced to suffer as a result of Islamic imperialism. The fact that Swedish elected representatives do not see the symbolism of this garment is not only reprehensible, it is totally unacceptable. While we are talking about this, perhaps we should also focus on what is happening in other parts of the world. Islamism is spreading all over the world, and the consequences are terrible. We see minorities being oppressed, driven out and murdered as they try to escape the extremists' world view. We see it through the terrible ravages of the Islamic State in the Middle East and in Africa. We see it through Hamas' brutal attacks from Gaza. We also see it through the advance of extremists in Indonesia, where sharia laws are a reality in several parts of the country. Sweden must put its foot down and defend the oppressed. We cannot accept this development, and we must take this threat seriously. In this respect, it is unacceptable that the government tolerates and even contributes to this in some cases through Swedish tax funds, which go to clearly Islamic organisations and in some countries terrorist-class organisations. Mr President, I would like to Last week I and some other members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs visited Armenia. It was an interesting trip. Among other things, we visited a memorial of the millions of Armenians who were murdered at the purges of the Ottoman Empire during the great times of the kingdom. It is a genocide that is still not recognised by the Swedish Government, despite a seven-year-old announcement by the Swedish Parliament. I see this enormous betrayal as symbolic of how the Swedish Government has completely surrendered to Turkey for fear of this country, whose totalitarian and imperialist regime still today oppresses minorities and dissidents. It is also a country that systematically bombes the main secular and democratic forces that are fighting the ravages of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. Another issue that I also think is important to address is the recognition of independent states around the world. It seems easy for the Social Democrats and the Green Party to press in opposition on important foreign policy issues but then lie flat as soon as they are in government. The issue of genocide is one of those questions. Another issue is the recognition of Western Sahara, which was voted for only five years ago in Parliament. In a government position, however, it is now quite openly refusing to comply with Parliament's decision – on the grounds that it should be taken at the UN. Unfortunately, the inconsistency of the current government is clear. We saw how the government, without a parliamentary decision, quickly after they won the elections, was able to recognise the unstable and violent Palestine, while not lifting a finger for the people of stable, peaceful and democratic Somaliland. Somaliland is an autonomous region that soon celebrates 26 years as a country and can be seen as an example for all the countries in the region that are facing dictatorship and contradictions. It has well-functioning institutions, free schools and a well-developed legal system. They have their own currency, passports and diplomatic relations. Last but not least, the country serves as an example in its region of the world in almost all areas. A confession of Somaliland would cost us nothing. On the other hand, it would show that Sweden is the first country in the world to see the progress the Somali people have made. In doing so, we can also show our appreciation, not least for all the help they offer refugees from other parts of Africa, but also from Yemen. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the red thread in the Red Government is gone. It shines with its absence. Even this year we are forced to live with the knowledge that millions and millions of people are fleeing their homes as a result of various difficulties. It is our duty of solidarity to provide emergency aid in order to save the lives of as many of these as possible and also in the best way to enable a life worth living. Over 60% of all refugees are in their home countries, and just over 30% have managed to get to another country, usually in the immediate vicinity. A total of 86% of all refugees reside in developing countries, reflecting the strange priorities of the government and the other opposition. It should be a matter of course that every invested tax chandelier should be able to do as much good as possible. Yet it still defends the fact that up to 30% of the aid budget is being stolen. How can this be considered reasonable? Moreover, it still offers benefits to new arrivals who are at risk of worsening the situation of dangerous migration routes, which is a disservice not least for those who venture into rusty boats on the Mediterranean or in overcrowded containers on the European continent. If Sweden is to be a major humanitarian power, we must also set an example. We should focus on primarily supporting the recipient countries in the neighbourhood and offering the heroes of civil society on the ground resources to meet their important commitments. By promoting trade and investing in developing countries, we can also lift people out of an economic situation that we in Sweden cannot even imagine. Then, of course, we need to realise that it is Swedish prosperity that makes effective aid possible. To burden our society further does not solve any problems. Sweden can do so much better if you want to stand up for fundamental human rights. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I would like to point out that there are many other issues I wish I had been able to raise in this debate. I know that several of my party friends will bring up some of them. The main focus of the Swedish Democrats on these issues can be found on our website. I can recommend you to take a look there, or contact us for any questions.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-251	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats have a history of abstinence to Moscow and fear of touch before Swedish NATO membership. Representatives of the Swedish Democrats in the Committee on Defence have said in this House's pulpit that the Alliance is creating an enemy, Russia, and is making it up to be a threat. It has also been said that Russia is not considered an enemy. But is not a country that does not respect the borders of its neighbours and threatens other states with nuclear weapons a threat, Markus Wiechel? At the same time, the Swedish Democrats are happy and often talk about a defence alliance with Finland. Otherwise, however, we cannot envisage either defence cooperation or NATO membership. There are big words about how important it is to defend Sweden, but it is as I said a little unclear against what. Above all, it should not happen with any others. It feels like the Swedish Democrats do not want to take either a Russian debate or a substantial debate on NATO. Sweden must react to Russia's actions. When Russia rearranges military annexation of Crimea illegally and carries out misinformation campaigns and cyber attacks, it is incredibly important that we stand united. Why do you not want to take the debate and criticise Russia?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-254	Mr President, I would like to I'd be happy to have a Russian debate with Karin. I have clearly condemned Russia's actions in Crimea on several occasions with my party friends. We have supported sanctions against Russia and. We have written debate articles criticising their imperialist and aggressive ways of directing their country and their behaviour towards the outside world. In the Council of Europe, for example, we, together with the Moderates, have voted in favour of documents with clear wordings against Russia's aggressiveness. We have condemned Russia's actions on several occasions. I don't understand how you could have missed this. But this doesn't mean you should see even the most aggressive countries in our world as enemies. At the same time, we need to engage in dialogue. This certainly does not mean that we should accept, for example, Russia's intervention on the Crimea Peninsula. On the other hand, we need to ensure that we have different forms of diplomatic relations all the time. In terms of defence cooperation, it is a bit ironic that a representative of a party that has completely dismantled the Swedish defence should suddenly speak out for defence cooperation against any Russian aggression. The Swedish Democrats have for several years, during all the years when we have been in the Swedish parliament, warned against a dismantling of the Swedish defence. We have been warning for years about the problems that we are seeing right now. We in Sweden must solve our own problems. We cannot rely on large military alliances like NATO to ensure our security here in Sweden, but we must have a strong Swedish defence, preferably in collaboration with Finland.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-257	Mr President, I would like to This post probably didn't make me, the audience or the viewers much wiser. On the one hand, Markus Wiechel says: Russia is acting wrongly, and we are prepared to condemn them. On the other hand, I almost hear that there is some sort of understanding that it is still a large country and that it may feel threatened. We must be very balanced and have a good dialogue. This is particularly alarming because we know that the Swedish Democrats' sister parties in Europe are very clear, not even hidden, accepting contributions from Russia and obviously have very good contacts. Again: What will you do, the Swedish Democrats? How do you view Russia? Do you agree with the Secretary of State? Do you agree with the Moderates and the Alliance? Or should you have a third way in Sweden's foreign policy?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-261	Mr President, I would like to No, we have no understanding of Russia's aggressiveness at all. We have made that clear several times. If, after some of our other cooperation parties in Europe have taken a different position on this issue, it will have to stand for them. The Swedish Democrats maintain that we are very critical of Russia's aggressiveness and will continue to be so. That's where I think we and the Moderates get along. As far as security policy is concerned, it is important that we keep looking at what the outside world offers. Karin Enström cannot answer here. But I still find it a little strange that the Swedish Democrats are being attacked about the security policy situation when they have been involved in dismantling the Swedish defence. I suspect she may have an opportunity to come back to that perhaps in the next round of debates.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-263	Mr President, I would like to Markus Wiechel, like his colleagues, is very happy to talk about combating international terrorism and the importance of preventing people from coming here to Sweden. You're supposed to help on the spot, as you call it. But just like the right-wing and populist brothers of the Swedish Democrats in the rest of Europe, a policy is being pursued that leads to the opposite. Markus Wiechel mentions that your proposal for aid remains in place this year. But if you look at your budgets, you can see that you are drastically cutting back on aid. How does the equation work out for you?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-265	Mr President, I would like to During this year, we budgeted for much more generous aid than the government with the Green Party did. In the coming years, we do not know what the situation will be. Of course, the budget must be adapted to the developments that we see around the world. At least my hope is, and I also think it is Pernilla Stålhammar's hope, that it will be a better situation around the world. Then the Green Party and the Swedish Democrats have completely different priorities. We also see outside Sweden's borders. We see the situation for the people on the ground. We see why people come here. It's not just about people having a hard time. It is also about people wanting to get better. We want to make it possible for as many people as possible. We can only do that on site. Harder than that, it's not really. I do not know whether Pernilla Stålhammar can at all understand the terrible situation that people have in many parts of the world. This also applies to people who may not have fled war or oppression. I think a lot of people would like to come to Sweden, but they don't have that opportunity. It is also not sustainable in the long term if we want to save as many people as possible.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-268	Mr President, I would like to In all honesty, I believe that neither Markus Wiechel nor I can fully understand this situation. It is they who experience the horror that can truly do so. We must therefore continue to work on aid in real terms. It is a lie that you remain at the level of aid. You want 0.7%. You are cutting back on aid to Sida and also to UNHCR. In Palestine in Gaza, there are six-year-old girls and boys who have already experienced three wars. Does Markus Wiechel not think it is important to help them as well? You want to stop aid to Palestine completely. You say you want to help on the spot. The situation in Palestine and in Gaza in particular is precarious. Can you explain to me why the Swedish Democrats choose not to support this process and not to support the six-year-old girls and boys who have already experienced three wars?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-271	Mr President, I would like to First, I just want to correct Pernilla Stålhammar here. We don't add 0.7%. We spend 0.84% of our money on aid. The government is putting 0.7, considering you're making 30 percent settlements. That's not quite true. Let us move on to the question of Palestine. What we are saying is that we do not want to channel money to the Palestinian Authority, which frequently exposes children and others to indoctrination and to hatred of Israel. These are things that really belong in the '30s and '40s Nazi Germany. We can't channel money into an organization that pays for terrorists. It is an organisation which in no way stands up for the fundamental human rights that we see as self-evident.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-274	Mr President, I would like to I listened and listened. But I did not hear anything from the Swedish Democrats about the security policy very challenging situation that Sweden is in, which Europe is in and which our neighbours are facing. The world picture was the evil ones, and the evil ones were Muslims. It is the world view that was painted in the speech of the Swedish Democrats: Islamist threat. We also hear this from other parts of the world these days. Mr President, I would like to There are those who have a tendency and an explicit desire to do so to the watershed in world politics. I hope that the Swedish Democrats realise that religion is not a watershed, but it is action that determines. We should criticise both terrorists regardless of religion and governments regardless of religion. Mr President, I would like to For those of us who stand up for freedom of religion and liberal values, that is what determines. I would like to hear how the Swedish Democrats view the threat to liberal values that today come from contacts in, for example, Hungary. It seeks to pry up the values on which we have built Europe. Mr President, I would like to I hear about dialogue with Russia. I have no doubt understood that the Swedish Democrats have participated in this dialogue. At EU level, we always vote against resolutions that go against Russia. We have heard here in Parliament about dialogue with Mr Putilov. I don't have to mention more than that. Mr President, I would like to There is a pattern of dialogue on the part of the Swedish Democrats. It was also visible in the post.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-279	Mr President, I would like to I did not mention Muslims once in my speech, not once. I mentioned Islamists. That Kerstin Lundgren suddenly equates Islamists with Muslims has to stand for her. I think that in itself is astounding. Islamists are a great threat. Muslims are people. It's about a completely different matter. Islamists are political Islam, and that is a threat. Let's face it. If Kerstin Lundgren doesn't see it and the Center Party can understand it, I'm afraid. But you have a history of harboring them in your own party. I'm not going into that anymore. As far as Russia is concerned, I have been clear in the past. I myself sat with Kerstin Lundgren in the Council of Europe and voted in favour of documents that were clearly critical of Russia's actions, not least in Ukraine. In the European Parliament, we have previously followed another party. But we have now assumed that we will vote, just as we do here in the Swedish Parliament, on a very critical line towards Russia. We support sanctions. We have condemned their actions in a number of debates, speeches and so on. We can't be more clear. I think that Kerstin Lundgren will have to give up the nonsense of rhetoric.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-282	Mr President, I would like to Mr Putilov was visible in the corridors around this House. Surely there is a pattern, and the Swedish Democrats have a lot to explain. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats have a clear agenda that fits well with the message that comes from Mr Putin. It sounds almost like some people heard in, for example, the American election debate: we have nothing to do with Russia. No, no! We're not talking! It sounded almost like that when I heard Mr Wiechel in this debate. But we know today that there was talk, and we know that the Swedish Democrats are in close contact with European parties and actors who really want to break up the liberal world order on which we build our society.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-284	Mr President, I would like to If Kerstin Lundgren knows more about the contacts of the Swedish democrats with Russia, she will be happy to inform me, because I would find that very interesting to find out. Regarding the official who previously worked here in the Riksdag, the Swedish Democrats have the hardest scrutiny of our employees by the Riksdag. This is also a person who made himself known to criticise the very Russian regime which he is now accused of supporting. I can't see how the Center Party could have done anything else if a person with a good track record and who Säpo doesn't class as a security threat had come and applied for a job with the party. I don't know how you would have handled it or how you could have suddenly discovered that there were any such suspicions. In addition, this is about a person who did not have much transparency in any confidential information at all. But as I said, Kerstin Lundgren is welcome to come back with clearer questions.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-287	Mr President, I would like to I have comments on the red-green feminist foreign policy. I think that feminist foreign policy should be much tougher against the world's worst women's haters, such as Iran and Saudi Arabia, and against Islamic terrorist organisations, ranging from Boko Haram and Al Qaeda to Daish. I make this criticism in the media and in debates in this House, where we have a democratic exchange of views in different ways. It still feels very strange, uncomfortable and meager to see a representative of the Swedish Democrats like Markus Wiechel here in some way make himself a fanbearer of a feminist foreign policy in Swedish democracy. You Swedish democrats want to reduce Swedish women's right to free abortion here at home. You have a ideal for women that sometimes resembles the housewife community that many of us are grateful that we have left for a society where women can now support themselves on equal terms. Out in Europe and in the world, you are aligning yourself with parties that want to impair the human rights of girls and women. What is most interesting, and what I was actually going to ask, is this: if you are so keenly defending women's rights – why do you want Sweden to leave the European Union, which is the strongest force globally in standing up for girls' and women's rights, whether it is about combating genital mutilation, securing girls' right to school or ensuring that we crush these compactly strong glass ceilings? Why do you associate yourself in the discussions in the European Parliament with a Russia in which legislation has just been introduced which minimizes the abuse of women in close relations? Why do you align yourself in the European Parliament with various populist, nationalist or racist parties in different shades of brown, which have women's decline in rights first on the agenda?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-290	Mr President, I would like to I can assure Birgitta Ohlsson that we do not support any demeaning or repressive ideas of women in the European Parliament or anywhere else. On the contrary – we stand up for women's rights more than any other party in the Swedish Parliament, if I may say so myself. If you look at our previous budget, it also turns out that those who earn the most from the budget we present here in the Swedish Parliament are women. The Swedish Democrats are really a party to strengthen the role of women in society, even here in Sweden. No, I don't want to be a fanbearer for a feminist foreign policy. This feminism thing is for those who call themselves feminists to answer for. However, if the government now goes out and tries to pursue a policy that will benefit women or strengthen vulnerable women, I can think it is strange to turn to oppressor states and their Islamist garments, which also have a fairly strong symbolic value for vulnerable women here in Sweden too. As far as Europe is concerned, I do not know how it would be a better body for this than any other international forum. Moreover, it is supranational and risks tearing the Member States apart rather than tying them together. We have the Council of Europe, which works well. It's intergovernmental. We can also promote human rights and women's rights through the UN, and we have more other bodies. The EU is by no means a project that would strengthen women in Europe. I would say that the opposite is true.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-293	Mr President, I would like to I believe that many women and men, regardless of their political colour, in our Sweden are amazed when the Swedish Democrats proclaim that they are the party that has the strongest political agenda. You want to reintroduce co-taxation here in Sweden, which the other parties reject, and for that matter impair women's right to free abortion. There is a global trend in which the rest of the parties in the Riksdag participate and lead together: We must be a stronger and global voice when Donald Trump has become President of the White House and when nationalism and populism ensure that women's and minorities' rights are first and foremost lost. It is interesting that the Swedish Democrats actively want Sweden to leave the European Union. The EU is the world's largest aid organisation, if we are now to speak by foreign policy standards. It is also the organisation and the Union that has the strongest feminist agenda. We, of course, on the Swedish side, and as a liberal feminist, would like it to be even stronger. However, if you want to fight Islamist terrorists and the retrograde ones that exist, the EU is a very good way.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-296	Mr President, I would like to I have full respect for the fact that one can believe in some of the projects that exist in the European Union today and that one can enjoy the aid that the European Union provides. But can we not handle it ourselves in Sweden? Can we not decide for ourselves how to distribute our aid? Can we not work together with other countries but decide for ourselves where the money should go? Why do we need a supranational Union to distribute the aid money that we want to go to vulnerable people? I don't see the logic. Nor is it justifiable from a different perspective, given that the EU is a huge economic colossus of squandered tax revenue. So I do not see the logic of us needing the European Union to better distribute aid.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-298	Mr President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, representatives of the diplomatic corps, honourable Members of Parliament and those of you who watch the debate on television or listen to radio at home! Thank you for listening! Much has happened since the last foreign policy debate. It is with pride that I stand here today. Sweden has taken its place in the UN Security Council, and we have vigorously expanded our work on peace diplomacy. Our feminist foreign policy is gaining momentum around the world, and climate action has taken a historic leap forward. Mr President, I would like to We who sit here in the Swedish Parliament live in a country that can count on over 200 years of peace. We have had a century of democracy, prosperity and prosperity. We live in one of the world's most equal and sustainable societies, and we have every reason to be proud of our country and every reason to feel faith in the future. We have free education and health care, a reliable justice system, a strong civil society, a free press, trade union rights, healthy drinking water and a clean environment. It is a utopia in many countries and everyday life for us here at home. That is why it is so important that we understand the role and importance we have in the world right now and that we are taking advantage of it right now. We are not a great power, neither economically nor militarily, but we have other and probably much more important values that matter. Madam President, I would like Our assistance matters. With more than SEK 40 billion per year, it has a significant impact on what aid investments Sweden does, what funds we invest in and what strategies we design. That is why it is so long-awaited and important that the government now presents a new political framework for Swedish development cooperation. When Trump withdraws all support for organisations that promote women's right to their own body, Sweden, together with like-minded countries, takes the initiative for a worldwide collection for SRHR. When Putin makes it easier for men to abuse their wives and children, Sweden strengthens support for democracy and human rights. When a click of climate skeptics in the White House closes national climate databases, Sweden signs a unique climate law and invites to an international sea conference with Fiji. No – Sweden cannot do everything, but Sweden will do everything we can. We shall stand upright and firm in our values when it blows at its worst from the outside world. Madam President, I would like Our diplomacy matters. Our seat on the UN Security Council allows us to include our values on feminism and climate in the Security Council discussions. Our in-depth efforts at peace diplomacy give us an important role in mediation and peace-building around the world. It is therefore also so important that Sweden now appoints a special envoy to the Palestine and Israel conflict. We have our fundamental conviction that global challenges require global responses. The importance of well-functioning multilateral bodies cannot therefore be stressed enough. It is our firm conviction that the UN is the hub of the peacemaker, and although the organisation needs to be updated and reformed, it is the only place in the world where all nations and people can meet and speak. The feminist foreign policy is more important than ever. There is no lasting peace unless women can participate on equal terms with men. We do not live up to the human rights conventions unless women and men have equal rights, obligations and opportunities. Madam President, I would like At a time like this, it matters very much what friendships we manage. Our Nordic cooperation must be a priority, and I would also like to say that EU cooperation is more important than ever, not least from the point of view of security policy. When foreign states run campaigns of influence to divide, fertilise mistrust and question the legitimacy of the EU, we must be clear and show that we have chosen the path and direction. When Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and war in eastern Ukraine, the EU must stand strong and united as a powerful reminder of the alternative to Putin's world order. We must continue to stand up for the Eastern Partnership. Only with a democratic and strong Europe can we also put proper pressure on Mr Erdo中an to put an end to his persecutions and imprisonments of journalists, politicians and human rights activists. Madam President, I would like We must not forget that the values that Sweden has long represented are now being challenged from various sides, from Islamist terrorists to nationalists and Nazis. It is against these forces that we must be equipped now, and as proud as I am when I represent Sweden in international contexts, I am just as humble to face the great challenges we face. One thing is certain, however, and that is that the best way to meet these challenges is to join forces with democratic parties here in Parliament and with like-minded, progressive forces in the world.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-314	Madam President, I would like A fundamental part of Sweden's traditional foreign policy has been the idea of open and free trade. Sweden, in particular in the EU together with the UK, has worked hard to ensure that, in addition to the internal market, the EU also has as many good free trade agreements with other countries as possible. At home, the government still claims to be united behind a free trade agenda. Today, however, the European Parliament is going to vote on the EU's free trade agreement with Canada, and I am very curious to hear how things are actually going. What does the Green Party think? We have a situation now after Brexit and with President Trump where Sweden must be very clear and proactive in terms of free trade. How will the representatives of the Green Party in the European Parliament vote on this free trade agreement?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-317	Madam President, I would like In fact, it is a myth that the Green Party would not stand for free trade. We think it is important that nations deal with each other and that it also benefits developing countries, when it is properly designed. To Karin Enström I can say that we have been critical of some parts of the content of CETA, but it has mainly been about environmental and climate aspects. We have wanted to include certain issues in the agreement itself, but we support this agreement and we will vote in favour of it.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-319	Madam President, I would like Does that mean, then, that the position of the entire Green Party will also be reflected in the votes cast in today's vote on the EU-Canada Free Trade Agreement, what is known as CETA? Have I understood, then, that the MEPs of the Green Party will vote in favour of this agreement?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-320	Madam President, I would like How to act in different places is demonstrably different at times, but I would like to say that the Green Party is behind the CETA agreement. What will happen in the European Parliament and how the Greens will vote there is not something I can stand for.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-322	Madam President, I would like As you know, the Green Party has had some difficulties in the past with outgoing ministers and contacts between ministers and Turkish organisations. I know that Pernilla Stålhammar, just like you, is a strong supporter of international aid. The problem is that we may have a slightly different view of where the money should go. Therefore, I have a fairly simple question to Pernilla Stålhammar: How does Pernilla Stålhammar see that aid goes to organisations such as Islamic Relief or others linked to the Muslim Brotherhood? What is the Green Party's approach to such organisations?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-324	Madam President, I would like I do not really know if I understood what organisations Markus Wiechel was talking about. We are clear that we are giving support to moderate forces but not to those organisations that stand for Islamic values. We've never done that before, so I don't know what Markus Wiechel is really going after. However, I know that Markus Wiechel has criticised the support for Unrwa, which is an extremely important support in Palestine. A fantastic job is being done in the various camps where refugees have lived for so vastly long. The most important thing to do is to give a dignified life, to turn it into long-term development cooperation and to provide education. This is what Unrwa does.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-326	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats support several projects that help refugees, not least children, including our increased support to UNICEF and other UN agencies. Let us return to the view of the Green Party in my view questionable views of certain organisations. The government has previously supported Syria Recovery Trust Fund and Islamic Relief. These are organisations that have had clear links with Islamic organisations. In view of the past history of the Green Party with implied links to the Muslim Brotherhood, it may be interesting to hear what Pernilla Stålhammar really thinks about such support in the future.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-329	Madam President, I would like Again, I say that we do not support organisations that support an Islamic agenda. That is my brief answer to Markus Wiechel.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-330	Madam President, I would like I have two questions for the Green Party spokesperson. I heard Pernilla Stålhammar mention that the pressure should be put on Erdo中an. Here, of course, I am very curious. In what way does the government put pressure on Erdo中an in the situation we can see in Turkey, with so many imprisonments, so many dismissals and so much pressure on anything that does not support Mr. President. I'm curious to get a deeper picture of how the government does it. Madam President, I would like I can understand that the military freedom of alliance serves Pernilla Stålhammar and the Green Party well. But how does it serve Sweden, the Nordic countries, the Baltic countries and the EU?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-333	Madam President, I would like I find it hard to understand that Kerstin Lundgren, as I know, keeps up to date with everything, does not see that we are constantly raising the issues in talks with Turkey. We have condemned in Turkey the imprisonment of HDP's representatives. In fact, we agree that we must continue to work towards rapprochement with the European Union. Although it is far away, work must continue in order to have an ongoing dialogue. Kerstin Lundgren asks two big questions, so I'll be brief. My view coincides with Sweden's well-being. Why should Sweden increase tensions in the immediate region by joining NATO? Why should we even dare to do so in a situation where tensions are greater than ever, Kerstin Lundgren? Why hadn't we chosen another opportunity? Why have you not pushed the issue before in the alliance government? Why do you dare to say this now that we do not even know whether NATO, in connection with Trumps's policy, offers any guarantees at all? I ask the question back to Kerstin Lundgren: How have you updated your view of NATO since Trump came to power?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-337	Madam President, I would like With regard to Mr Erdo中an and dealing with the situation in Turkey, I do not see anything new from the government. I heard a description of the story. It sounded a little different when I heard Pernilla Stålhammar's introduction. Madam President, I would like I did not hear an answer to how it serves Sweden well with freedom of alliance in today's security policy environment. On the other hand, I heard Pernilla Stålhammar mention that it does not dare to abandon the freedom of alliance because the situation is so worrying. But Sweden has been a non-aligned state so far. Yet we are in this environment. How does that make sense? Uncertainty is a fact.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-339	Madam President, I would like There, the Green Party and the government have chosen a clear path. We believe in deeper cooperation with the Nordic countries, especially with Finland. We believe in enhanced cooperation within the EU. We believe in deeper bilateral agreements with individual countries. We do not believe in an alliance where we lock ourselves in – as is done in NATO. We know that freedom of alliance has served us well for a hundred years. We can say that it would be foolish to change the Swedish security policy doctrine now that the security situation is as it is.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-341	Madam President, I would like The Green Party and the Liberals do not always feel the same in foreign policy, but in one field we have really pioneered together. I mean that Sweden should have decent arms exports. The Green Party and the Liberals were the only parties to take a clear stand about 15 years ago to introduce a democracy criterion in arms exports. It is something that we all long to see in place. I agree with the criticism made by several parties earlier in the debate. Pernilla Stålhammar's party is now in the government. Where is the new Arms Export Act? It's supposed to come in the spring, they say. Can Pernilla Stålhammar guarantee that there will be a strong democracy criterion?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-344	Madam President, I would like It is no secret that we wanted to go far in limiting arms exports. There was the preparation within KEX. There were some clear things to come up with. You could have gone further. I can say that as an environmental party. But when all parties were to get along, they didn't come any further. Indeed, Birgitta Ohlsson, the Liberals and the Green Party were united. One of the things that the preparation has put forward is that there should be a democracy criterion for Swedish arms exports. They work in the Government Office to produce the bill and with the Council of Law referral. The conclusions of the preparation are being translated into law. That's where the criterion is. We want a proposal for a sharper arms export law, which includes a democracy criterion, to be submitted to Parliament by the end of the spring.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-347	Madam President, I would like I referred in particular to the so-called Krut investigation, which started in 2002 and was completed in 2005, if I am not mistaken. The Green Party and the Liberal Party had the same agenda. Now it's the KEX investigation that's up to date. It clearly states that the requirement should make it possible to stop exports to countries where there are serious and widespread violations of human rights or serious shortcomings in democratic status. We can easily include many countries where Sweden has a large arms export today. I do not think I am the only one to be concerned but also that aid organisations, human rights organisations and a couple of parties in this House are concerned that it will not be as clear a policy as we all wanted. I therefore hope to have an even clearer answer, not only that Pernilla Stålhammar hopes but that we can expect a strong democracy criterion.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-351	Madam President, I would like Yeah, that's what's coming. Our intention is to implement the conclusions of the KEX committee, which includes a democracy criterion. That's my answer. The bill will be presented to Parliament later this spring.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-352	Madam President, I would like I would like to take up where Birgitta Ohlsson left off, because there is a part of the environmental party's previous work in development policy that we Christian Democrats have thought was very wise and where we have had very great consensus. But it is difficult to see what the Green Party really stands up for in the area of development policy. One example is what has just been mentioned about arms exports to dictatorships. I would like some more information on why a new bill has been delayed for as long as it has been. With the Green Party in the government, there was, of course, a hope that this process would be speeded up and not delayed. That hope has now been dashed. I think that we in the other parties that have worked hard in the KEX investigation should find out why. Will not a proposal be put forward that will seriously strengthen arms export control?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-354	Madam President, I would like Yes, we've had a common understanding here. The regulation of arms exports needs to be properly tightened up. As for the delay, I would like to say that we are doing a very thorough job. A lot of people came into the consultation round. Unfortunately, the preparation presented by KEX had not been written in the form of legislative proposals. That work remains to be done. It was a pity that there were no strong legislative proposals that could be passed directly after the various parties had reached an agreement. It will be a work that must now be done from the start. From our point of view, it is more important for this work to be done in a thorough and legally secure way than for us to rush forward a bill where you might miss different parts. I can assure you that there will be a tightening up.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-358	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pernilla Stålhammar, for your answer. With confidence, I look forward to the proposal – even if two and a half years is a long time to prepare for this. When Miljöpartiet's Isabella Lövin presented the new development platform, it was stressed how important it is to have a recipient's perspective. When we have then dealt with the new policy framework, it has led me to question how this is in the area of religious freedom, another area in which I feel that we have previously had a great deal of consensus. In the document previously presented by the government, which referred to various aid actors, there were good wordings that were then removed. I would therefore like to ask how freedom of religion really stands. Is there still something you defend and stand up for in development aid? Why, then, is it no longer in the policy framework?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-361	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Sofia Damm! Yes, that is absolutely something we stand up for. There is an opportunity when we prepare this in the Committee on Foreign Affairs to point out that it needs to be included. Unfortunately, I understand that Sofia Damm and the alliance colleagues believe that this platform should not be implemented. They want to throw it on the garbage heap and stand for their own aid platform – where one does not, I would say, have a receiving perspective.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-363	Madam President, I would like Swedish foreign policy should clearly stand up for the liberal values that built our prosperity: the equal value and rights of all people, an independent judiciary, free enterprise, free trade and international cooperation based on international law. Our foreign policy should safeguard not only the lives and health of the population but also the foundations of our society. It may sound obvious, but it is values that are being challenged globally today – not only by different dictatorships far away but through an increasing number of authoritarian leaders in our immediate environment. The free world is shrinking before our eyes. The structures designed to assert and develop our common values are being undermined. The EU is Sweden's most important foreign policy arena and the UN is a cornerstone of Swedish foreign policy. When Putin Russia, Erdo中an's Turkey, Alijev's Azerbaijan, Orbán's Hungary and Kaczyński's Poland attack Europe's liberal democratic models, we must not close our eyes, silence or back down. Yet that is what we have seen in recent years. Freedom House notes that 2016 was the eleventh consecutive year of deteriorating global development. With Brexit and Trump in central democracies, we see how unrest paraded with indecisiveness is growing in the free world. We see how populists and autocrats thrive. It is high time, Madam President, to meet the Trojan horses. Sweden, together with like-minded people, will engage both the United Kingdom and the United States in this fight. We need to make this clear. No one should perceive the development of a normative and security policy vacuum in our part of the world. With clarity, predictability and transparency, we will renovate the European house, where the foundations have been destabilised and undermined. We will build hope where others build fear. We live in a time of global and regional uncertainty. Sweden should not contribute to this uncertainty but strengthen the defence and shape a modern total defence. We will make our declaration of solidarity clear and credible through increased Nordic – Baltic collaboration, strengthened EU ability to act as a complement to NATO and ultimately through Swedish membership of NATO. Sweden should stand up for solidarity in guaranteed action, not just in words. Those who take President Trump as a reason for Sweden to remain outside NATO should instead ask themselves how Sweden can help strengthen the transatlantic link. Those who seek to undermine NATO from different perspectives not only seriously threaten the security of Sweden but also of our neighbours. We do not need more vacuum in our immediate environment if we want to assert peace and our liberal values. Sweden, through clarity about its solidarity policy, will contribute to raising the conflict-resisting thresholds in our part of Europe. This applies both to the Baltic Sea and to the Arctic. At the same time, we shall be pushing for the reduction of the nuclear threat, which has once again become increasingly evident with Russian development in our neighbourhood. The Center Party wants to see a nuclear-free world. We want to contribute to balanced disarmament. We stand up for the nuclear agreement with Iran, do not want to see more nuclear weapons countries but are clear on growing challenges. I just need to mention the dictatorship of North Korea. We are prepared to call the UN track on nuclear bans but are not prepared to risk either the NPT agreement or our security. Sweden shall assert both the right of individuals to choose their life as well as the right of all countries to choose their path. On this basis, we want to develop the Eastern Partnership, something that has been sharply disliked by Russia under President Putin. With propaganda, corruption and hybrid warfare, he has sought to destabilise and stop countries that have themselves opted for rapprochement with the EU. When it has not succeeded, the Russian military has been deployed. We have seen it and are seeing it today in Georgia and in Ukraine. Russian military presence is consistent with developments in both South Ossetia and Abkhazia, as well as in Crimea and Eastern Ukraine. That is totally unacceptable. The policy of sanctions against Russia must continue as long as Ukraine does not regain full control of its territory and its recognised borders. Today, it is vital for Europe's security, our security, that there is no uncertainty as to where Europe stands. Our eastern neighbours must not once again become victims of doubt from the free world. We must not create a new vacuum policy. It would be precious for our neighbours but also for us in Sweden, the Nordic countries and Europe. That is why a strong message is needed in all contacts with Russia. When the Minister of Foreign Affairs travels east, clear language is required about abuses against civil society, political opposition, the judiciary and journalists and plain language against interference in Ukraine and Georgia. The relationship with Russia can only be based on respect for international rules of the game, institutions and principles. Be clear! It is action and not words that count. Be clear! These are actions that make Russia the threat to our security and that of Europe. No ambiguity must be created on the basis of the government's desired role as a mood promoter in the Security Council. Russia is acting for a new world order built on strong men not only in our eastern neighbourhood but also in our southern neighbourhood. All those who peacefully demonstrated and dreamed of a freer Syria have seen their country torn apart. Since the Asad regime chose the military route, a variety of military actors have driven the country into chaos. The war, which is about to enter its seventh year, has become the most devastating of our time. The humanitarian situation is indescribable. Crimes against humanity and the laws of war are reported. Freedom of punishment must not prevail. The situation in the Middle East and North Africa is very serious; one has only to mention Yemen and Daish's reign of terror. We shall undoubtedly take the fight against terrorism, against Daish, but also see that Presidents Putin and Erdo中an seem to be united in the will to class almost all opposition as terrorists. That's how we recognize authoritarian leaders. Now, as before, they build their power by trampling down people's rights and freedoms and eliminating the forces that may threaten them. Madam President, I would like 70 years ago, the foundations of modern development policy were laid, with Marshall aid as a means of supporting reconstruction in Europe after the Second World War. Then Stalin saw economic recovery in Western Europe as a threat: that the imperialists wanted war. The Cold War was a fact. Hungary then wanted Marshall help, but after a visit to Moscow, a contact pattern we know today was abandoned. Madam President, I would like The Center Party stands up for the climate agreement, Agenda 2030 and the target of 1% of GDP for aid. Together with trade, technology development and international law, they become our tools to contribute to strengthened human rights and freedoms, eradicated poverty and saved climate. When others choose protectionism, Sweden will be an active voice for free trade and openness in the EU and the world. When others choose to reduce support for women's human rights, Sweden will actively build support for them. When others seek to destroy the right to choose who you are and who you want to love, we will actively build support for LGBTQ people's equal rights. Madam President, I would like Sweden will strategically strengthen climate, freedom, openness and tolerance and multilateral standards. We will take responsibility for inclusive and sustainable development. A sustainable world for our children and grandchildren is possible!
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-381	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren! It is action that counts, was an important message in your post. I have two questions for you. First of all, until September last year, the Center Party had a common position with us in our view of military cooperation. But then they turned: from defending military alliance freedom, they wanted to apply for membership of NATO. NATO has an explicit defence doctrine that includes weapons of mass destruction. I have praised the Center Party for so far being a party that has actively argued against nuclear weapons. I am surprised that you have given priority to this issue in order to be able to take a stand for NATO membership. How do you reconcile your view of nuclear disarmament with the will to apply for membership of NATO? You do not come from the fact that you would place Sweden under a nuclear umbrella where, moreover, countries such as the United States – which are not just a country like any other, but the very column of which NATO rests – are now talking about nuclear armament. The second is: how do you view the extended hand of the Moderates to the Swedish Democrats, who do not want EU membership and do not believe in EU cooperation? How can action be taken that counts with these two concerns?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-385	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the questions. It's action that counts. Firstly, I hope that the Foreign Minister listened: I had a rather clear section in my ears on nuclear issues and nuclear disarmament. Today we are in fact exposed to a threat from Russian nuclear weapons. How does the Secretary of State intend to meet? We actually have a nuclear umbrella over us today. How does the Secretary of State want to get out of it? And is it better to have a bilateral agreement with the United States? It sounded to the Foreign Minister like the United States was the real column on nuclear issues. Is that why you just want to sit on your knee alone with a bilateral agreement? Why do the Social Democrats not want to do as in the EU, join and sit at the table to participate in influencing and making decisions? It must be a better way than to stand by and stand in the gallery and comment. We think it's better to join in and influence. Then we build security and show in action that we mean something when we talk about solidarity with our neighbours. I find it difficult to understand how the Foreign Minister can say that we are prepared to do everything but not to guarantee that we are doing everything. What kind of security and security structure is built with this? Finally, Madam President, we in the Center Party have been very clear: we will not end up in a situation where we are negotiating or basing ourselves on a policy in which the Swedish Democrats are involved.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-390	Madam President, I would like Dearest Kerstin Lundgren, this doesn't make sense! What you are saying is that now Russia has nuclear weapons and wants to rearrange, so we should do the same. This is exactly what we need to stop. We must stop nuclear weapons, and that is why, as soon as we took office, we took Sweden down from the spectator gallery on disarmament issues and have been active since then. We actively support the idea of a ban on nuclear weapons, and we will work towards this. We will ensure that we actively contribute to limiting investments in new nuclear weapons. Now it sounds completely reversed. I think it's time you call the Center Party bluff. You have a number of positions that will never be realised if an alliance is to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats. It is about time that this came out more clearly.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-392	Madam President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is not all times the government has the last word; in this change of line I have it. Russian nuclear weapons are clearly not perceived as a threat by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. A ban in a UN resolution will not stop Mr Putin. But good luck! I hope we are told – that after the meeting next week, the Foreign Minister will come home and say: now, with our freedom of alliance, we have received a guarantee from Russia that they will disarm their nuclear weapons. That would be a message that would build greater security. Today, however, that is not the case. You equip and build, and you're very close: Kaliningrad. We must face this with clarity, not vacuum politics, Madam President. Finally, we from the Center Party are very clear about non-cooperation with the Swedish Democrats.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-396	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Kerstin Lundgren listed a number of countries that are to some extent regarded as repressive states. I share this view of Putin Russia and Erdo中an's Turkey. What I have missed in the past, however, is the attitude of the Center Party towards Turkey. As I said, we have fully supported the sanctions imposed on Russia, and we have condemned Russia's illegal annexation of the Crimean Peninsula. But why this passivity with regard to Erdo.an's oppression? Turkey today has currents that look back on the great times of the Ottoman Empire. Erdo中an himself has said that Aleppo in Syria and Mosul in Iraq are actually Turkish cities. He has also said that Mosul will only have Sunni inhabitants after the Islamic state has been expelled. Is this not worth talking about clearly in the debate, both internationally and here in Sweden? Why this passivity from the Center Party?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-399	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is a nationalistic, populist wave passing through Europe, and unfortunately not only through Europe. It is also visible in Turkey, as in this House. It is the same rhetoric – the fear of the other, the identification of the other – and attempts are being made to tear down and destroy the liberal values that we have built up to assert freedom and human rights on our continent. Unfortunately, the Swedish Democrats are part of that train towards liberal values, together with President Erdo中an. It's the same kind of rhetoric used there as here. From our side, it's very clear. We have criticized. We have, of course, stood up to criticise the attempt at a military coup that took place. There is no doubt about that. We have also been very clear about criticising the violations of human rights, the principles of the rule of law and democracy. I met some time ago with representatives of HDP. I do not know if it is people that the Swedish Democrats can also consider meeting. They gave a clear picture of the threats to democracy, human rights and the rule of law that we are seeing in Turkey today. We must be clear about making criticism, but not on the basis of religion.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-401	Madam President, I would like I do not criticise Turkey on the basis of religion. I am invoking Turkey because of its anti-human, intolerant and imperialist view of its region and other parts of the world. To call this a nationalist wave is to go far too far. It is about the glorification of the former Ottoman Empire. I'd be happy to meet with representatives of HDP. I have stood up on several occasions for their rights and condemned the attacks by Turkey and Erdo中an against them – the imprisonment of their representatives and the attacks on Kurds in general in Turkey. We have been very clear about this, and I would say that we are alone among the parties in the Swedish Parliament to be so clear and especially among the Swedish parties in the Council of Europe. But I welcome it if the Center Party changes its mind.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-403	Madam President, I would like We see here a clear example of selective hearing from Markus Wiechel. He hears what he says but not what others say. There will, of course, be results thereafter. Therefore, he does not hear and see that nationalism in the Swedish democrats' bottling has the same roots as nationalism in Erdo中an's bottling or in Orbán's bottling – precisely Orbán's party we know that the Swedish democrats are in close contact with. We've seen those tapes for many years now. It is nationalism in the form of Putin's nationalism. It's the same kind of reasoning. Admit it, Markus Wiechel! Stand up for what you are, and do not try to dress in new clothes to appear as anything but what you are. You are a party built on the roots of nationalism and Nazism.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-405	Madam President, I would like Kerstin Lundgren and I think equally on many issues, I would say. That is why I would like to ask a fairly important question. We both stand up for the global goals and believe that it is important that the international community has been able to present and agree on Agenda 2030 and that the Paris Agreement should be prioritised on the agenda. That is why I think it is very good that the government has presented the new aid framework. In our committee committee, however, it turns out that Kerstin Lundgren and her alliance colleagues want to say no to that. Instead, we want to go back to the aid platform that you presented during your time. But it has not been updated in any way. It is, of course, out of date now, except that we also have differences of opinion on how to pursue development cooperation, where you unfortunately represent more short-term projects and we are on the long-term agenda. Kerstin Lundgren, how do you get this together to stand by the aid platform when so much has happened in the outside world?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-408	Madam President, I would like There's a lot going on around the world. That is why we have had talks on security policy in the past, and that is why we think the Green Party needs to update itself. Pernilla Stålhammar says that the development policy platform is out of date. It has actually worked with her own government during half of her reign. Until December, it has been valid for various government policies. I assume that it is on this basis that the government decided on the Syria strategy that is often highlighted as a noble mark of modern development policy. Madam President, I would like The development policy platform has obviously served the current government very well during the period from September 2014 to December 2016, but all of a sudden it is out of date. Something happened just before Christmas that created this problem for the government. As far as we are concerned, we need a policy of aid which is clear, focused and strategic and which also brings together the various agendas. We, on our part, have called for a review of the aid policy and the framework for it. After reading the government's various action plans yesterday – I will not go into them any further – I can only say that I was strengthened in that image. Madam President, I would like Now that I have Pernilla Stålhammar here, I would like to ask her: what about the CETA agreement? Your representative Bodil Ceballos has announced that the Green Party will vote against. That was not the case a little while ago when Pernilla Stålhammar answered the question.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-413	Madam President, I would like The Green Party is behind the CETA agreement. The parliamentary group is behind the CETA agreement. I cannot be responsible for how our MEPs choose to vote in the European Parliament today. With the development policy platform, we have not been able to relate either to Agenda 2030 or to the Paris Agreement. This is what I mean by it being out of date. A lot has happened since you presented it. Then I would like to point out that a government has the right to conduct its policy. We have not been paralysed because we have not been able to present our aid policy letter. We have our foreign policy and our development cooperation policy, and they are quite different from those of the Alliance.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-416	Madam President, I would like One of the reasons why development policy differs clearly is that the government has chosen to be unfocused: everything to everyone. Follow the barity has disappeared. Madam President, I would like Agenda 2030 and the Paris Agreement – we have seen several actions in the years since they were signed that have referred to it. Now, all of a sudden, Madam President, the reason for changing the aid policy platform into a policy framework was what happened. It was a new information. It was in itself exciting as a motive for an act that I and the Center Party see as unnecessary, Madam President. Then it applies to the CETA agreement. The Green Party once again has a position in this House and another position in the European Parliament.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-419	Madam President, I would like We are seeing today in country after country how the fundamental human rights of women and LGBT people are under attack. Trump has recently withdrawn all American aid to organizations that stand up for the right to abortion. In Russia, we see how violence has been legalised in close relations. The governments of Hungary and Poland block every comma on sex education and LGBT issues in the EU. And here in Sweden we see how opponents of abortion campaign for refusal to care. It is more important than for a long time that we stand together for the right to abortion, the right to sexual education and the human rights of LGBT people – both here in Sweden and in the EU. A month ago, one of the heaviest posts in the EU was appointed. The new President of the European Parliament was appointed. Unfortunately, the conservative Italian Antonio Tajani was chosen, a former close ally with Silvio Berlusconi. Tajani has consistently opposed abortion over the years. He claims that children who grow up with same - sex parents become mentally ill. In Parliament, he has in recent years voted against the free movement of rainbow families, and he has opposed the prohibition of discrimination against sexual orientation and gender identity. It was perhaps no shock that Gunnar Hökmark and Lars Adaktusson started a little on such a candidate and voted in favour of Tajani. But so did the Center Party. Why did the Center Party choose to vote for a President of the European Parliament who consistently fought against the rights of women and LGBT people?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-423	Madam President, I would like I can only agree with Mr Linde on the importance of standing up today for women's sexual and reproductive rights and health. It's really important. Similarly, it is very important to stand up for, as I mentioned, the right to choose who you want to love and who you want to be and to stand up for LGBT people's rights across our continent but also globally. As Mr Linde mentioned, Madam President, it is clear that the new administration in the United States will change its position, which we deeply regret. We are on the side of the Center Party ready to work in different ways to support up where others are trying to destroy, because it is a fundamental value that we are talking about. Of course, it is also important here in Sweden to take the fight with those who are trying to undermine the right to abortion. When it comes to the election of the President, there was a history around the election of the President which had a slightly different element, one can say, Madam President. On our part, we fought hard for the ALDE Group not to include the Five Star Movement in the ALDE Group. It was a struggle that was important for the very values that we must stand up for here just as in the European Parliament. In that part we succeeded. In the second part we did not succeed. Madam President, I would like With Mr Federley representing the Centre Party in the European Parliament, there is no doubt that we stand up for the values we are talking about here. We will do it completely regardless of the President. I am also convinced that the ALDE Group will mark if necessary.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-428	Madam President, I would like It is a rather strange way of standing up for the right to abortion and for LGBT people's rights to support, in an election between several candidates, a candidate for President who has a history of stock-conservativeism and who has consistently opposed the right to abortion and the rights of LGBT people. It doesn't quite make sense, Kerstin Lundgren. It is not only the Green Party that makes slightly different positions depending on where you are geographically. This obviously also applies to the Center Party. We sometimes say in this House that politics is about wanting, but it is actually about choosing. There was nothing that forced the Center Party to vote in favour of the stock conservative e Tajani. There were several other options. There were several other candidates. In the last round Tajani was put against another Italian: Gianni Pittella. Pittella was not the first name of the Left Party. It wasn't our favorite candidate. But for us, it was obvious. In the choice between a stock-conservative candidate who is fighting the right to abortion and one who stands up for the right to abortion, that choice was self-evident. Why did you choose to support Tajani?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-431	Madam President, I would like I think it would have been fantastic if the Left Party had argued and pushed for us in the European Parliament to have a ALDE representative as President. We would then have had the opportunity, with Mr Guy, to have a force that would have spoken not only in the European Parliament but also globally for the very values on which we now agree are important to assert and pursue.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-432	Madam President, I would like Far beyond the debate in this House and beyond media reporting, one of the worst wars of our time is currently taking place in Yemen. For almost two years, a coalition led by Saudi Arabia has been fighting rebels supported by Iran. In the middle there is a whole people whose rights no one stands up for. Saudi Arabia and its allies have bombed hospitals, schools and funerals. On at least 14 occasions cluster weapons have been used — a weapon so terrible that 119 countries around the world have chosen to ban it. The consequence is a major humanitarian disaster. In less than two years, 10 000 innocent civilians — women and men, children and the elderly — have been killed, and 4 million people have been displaced. 1.5 million children are currently malnourished in Yemen. Four out of five Yemeni live in extreme poverty. The so-called humanitarian superpower a Sweden has contributed 300 million in humanitarian aid since the war in Yemen broke out. But while Sweden has provided humanitarian aid with one hand, during the years that Margot Wallström has been Minister of Foreign Affairs with the other hand, Sweden has sold arms and armaments to six of nine countries participating in the Saudi-led coalition's warfare in the country. As recently as last summer, a new deal, worth SEK 11 billion, was completed with the United Arab Emirates. The fact that this dictatorship is part of the Saudi-led coalition and is highly involved in war crimes in Yemen was not seen as an obstacle to new Swedish arms exports. Yemen is not an isolated example. Arms exports reveal a very clear gulf between the grand rhetoric of peace, freedom and feminism, which we hear in this House today, and the concrete foreign policy taken outside the Chamber. In 2016, authorisations for arms exports were granted to Saudi Arabia, Thailand, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, among others. Although the representatives of the government no longer want to take the word dictatorship into their mouths, none of these countries can be described as a democracy. The transactions now approved will result in successive deliveries for many years to come. Since 2007, for example, no new business has been granted with Pakistan due to the serious situation in the country. Nevertheless, we see how Swedish arms exports continue in the form of consequential deliveries to Pakistan this year too. Swedish governments tend to hide behind the fact that it is an authority that makes the formal decisions on arms exports. But we see too many examples that the current government actively chooses to promote Swedish arms exports through its embassies and through its travel abroad. Let me give two examples! In the Philippines, 7 000 people have been killed since President Duterte took office in June – it's the economy of killing, where death squads make money killing alleged drug addicts and drug dealers. This has not prevented the Swedish government from actively promoting arms exports to the country. Swedish representatives have spoken warmly about the export of submarines and surveillance systems in the Filipino press, and when a Swedish minister visited the country in November, the arms manufacturer Saab was an obvious part of the delegation. The same week a new Swedish embassy opened in Manila, Saab opened a new sales office in the same block – think so smoothly! While the Netherlands has imposed a national arms embargo on Saudi Arabia due to their war crimes in Yemen, the Swedish government has actively continued to promote the export of armaments to the Saudi dictatorship. When Stefan Löfven visited Saudi Arabia in October, he took Marcus Wallenberg, Chairman of Saab, but no representatives of independent human rights organisations were included in the delegation. What is prioritised is obvious. No one forced the government to bring Saab to Saudi Arabia or to praise Swedish surveillance systems in Filipino media. It is time for this government to take responsibility for its arms exports. Madam President, I would like Foreign policy declarations are important, but it is even more important how they are translated into daily foreign policy work – how the great words that we have heard today are translated into the difficult foreign policy balances that a government has to deal with every day. There are many of us who have applauded and inspired when the government has invested in women mediators, recognised Palestine and marked against Trumps's attacks on the right to abortion. Sweden's place in the Security Council underlines that this has been a policy that has been appreciated and gained respect around the world. However, in other foreign policy areas it has been considerably more difficult to see any trace of feminist foreign policy. The grand words of the foreign policy declarations felt very distant when the government went to Iran with the Swedish business community to promote Swedish exports, when Erdo中an and Turkey were made the EU's border police, when they deepened cooperation with NATO and when they refused to recognise Western Sahara. Arms exports are now the real litmus test for Margot Wallström's foreign policy. It will not be possible to talk with credibility about peace and human rights if we continue to allow arms exports to dictatorships. It is not possible to call itself a humanitarian superpower if weapons are exported to the very countries that are creating humanitarian crises. And feminists do not arm regimes that violate women's and girls' rights and condemn LGBT people to death. Madam President, I would like In 2011, the Riksdag decided to tighten the rules for arms exports to dictatorships. After six years, a comma in the legislation has not changed. I note that when it comes to restricting the right of asylum and dividing families with children, a new temporary asylum law of five months can be brought forward. But when it comes to reforming the legislation governing Swedish arms exports, there are icebergs that move faster than the current – and the previous – government does. Madam President, I would like While we wait for the government to act, arms exports continue. Since the parliamentary decision in 2011, Sweden has sold arms and armaments to dictatorships for more than SEK 15 billion. By the summer, the government will, very much delayed, submit a proposal to the Riksdag. The government is facing a clear path. The Social Democrats and the Green Party have clear congress decisions. There is a broad majority in this House – and an even wider majority out there among the Swedish people – for a clear and consistent ban on arms exports to dictatorships. There is every possibility for the Social Democrats and the Green Party to ban arms exports to dictatorships. The question is whether the government and government parties have the political will to do so.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-453	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Members and Listeners! Storms make the trees seek deeper roots, to quote the country queen Dolly Parton. And for us in this House, who belong to parties with proud roots springing from the fight for democracy, the fight for free trade, the fight for human rights and the battle for freedom – also for women – it is more important than ever to defend, nurture and wurk for these roots. It has been a sad year for freedom globally. Democracy receded for the eleventh year in a row. I have warned in this House since 2002 that populism, extremism and nationalism are spreading. We have seen how these forces have baxed Britain out of the EU, how they have made the Turkish rule of law and democracy change and how they have made it all the way into the White House. The villain states continued to restrict human rights. In Zimbabwe, the regime continued to abuse power and torture dissidents. In Venezuela, children were swallowed by the socialist experimentation of the regime. Islamic terrorist attacks murdered thousands of people in Baghdad, Nice and Peshawar. In the Philippines, thousands of innocent people were shot on the street. Hbtq people are executed for their love. Unfortunately, the list can be done much, much longer. The international community has betrayed the people of these countries. Global instruments such as the UN Human Rights Council have become a fiasco, Russia's Putin is blocking the Security Council and there is a risk that, following several withdrawals, the International Criminal Court will be weakened. But in 2016 established democracies also began to withdraw their citizens' rights. The EU member Hungary is one of the countries that backed up most. Poland, the Czech Republic and South Africa also became less free. American President Woodrow Wilson said a hundred years ago that the quest for peace can only be sustained with the consensus of democracies. And peace must rest on the tried and tested shoulders of political freedom. He was right. It is our duty to repair the slightest crack in this covenant of honor. In its foreign policy, Sweden must have democracy as its main objective. Every Swedish minister, every policy area and every foreign agency shall be based on what is conducive to the development of democracy in the world. Because when other countries withdraw from agreements that we have concluded together, Sweden has a particularly important task. There are those who say that sitting presidents, from South-East Asia to Eastern Europe and the United States, are not so dangerous. There are those who say that nationalism does not keep what it promises – that populists incite the masses but that in power they are the most politicians. I disagree. We must never get used to it. We have to remember our story. Remember that populist nationalists have already done great harm to the world. By mocking, by using gender words against women and by using lies and alternative facts, they have lowered the political threshold of decency. The limit of what a modern leader can say has been moved. Madam President, I would like We Liberals are concerned about the Russian armaments. The Swedish Armed Forces have seen a number of violations of the Swedish territory – at sea, in the air and on the cyber network. This is serious. Freedom is worth defending. This government has a great responsibility for Sweden's security. We barely have a one-week defense. We're just having a hard time working with our own friends. I would like to ask the Red-Green Government: why do you not rearrange more clearly? Why have you not even applied for NATO membership? Why do you not even dare to discuss the issue without ideological blindfolds? From the government's side, it has been said that we NATO advocates are having a difficult time with Trump as President. However, this government has devoted all security policy to bilateral relations with the United States, rather than having broader relations with NATO. Now that Trump has been sworn in, ours will not be compromised without your strategy. When the new U.S. Secretary of Defense meets NATO this week, Sweden is shut out. If, instead of relying on Obamas's goodwill, we had joined the alliance, we would have sat at the negotiating table. We would have had the right to veto and influence. Here the Alliance is already united with a clear political line. The Cold War is over. Many of us remember when the Iron Curtain was demolished almost 30 years ago and countries like Poland and Hungary went from misery to well-functioning democracies. This was amazing to experience. Last year Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán continued deeper into the vulgar nationalist swamp. His illiberal democracy – this dishonest contradiction – is now being exported to a number of countries in Eastern Europe and the Balkans. Poland has curtailed freedom of the press and put the principles of the rule of law out of play. Here the EU must become tougher in its control of human rights and be able to use both political and economic sanctions. It is therefore a good thing that the European Commission has examined Poland. Madam President, I would like Last year, a total ban on abortion was proposed in Poland, that women undergoing abortion should be punished. After the streets were filled with the greatest protests since the fall of Communism, the law was withdrawn. We know that it is always the rights of women and minorities that go first where populism prevails and how misogynism goes hand in hand with conservatism. After a century of progress, the war against women has intensified. While Daish buys and sells small girls for a thousand and unsafe abortions are carried out as a result of rapes in conflict areas, important actors are reducing support for women's sexual rights globally. It is therefore a good thing that Sweden is raising its aid on this front. I would like Sweden to review, in the same way, in principle, aid to, for example, the Palestinian Authority, which has been characterised too much by both corruption and democratic shortcomings. Sweden has been too lax in its criticism of undemocratic countries. A feminist foreign policy must sound equally strongly in Tehran, Timbuktu, Tijuana and Trondheim. It goes without saying to me that people speak plain language. A democracy is a democracy, and a dictatorship is a dictatorship. Saudi Arabia is a dictatorship, as is Iran. Every Swedish high school student knows that. Even in the foreign declaration, however, the word 'dictatorship' is not used, but rather the term 'non-democrats'. It's pitiful. It must be as obvious for a prime minister representing a feminist foreign policy to start cooperation with feminists on the ground in Iran as to conclude trade agreements for Swedish companies. I assume that the next time the government travels to the world's worst patriarchy, human rights organisations will follow with as obvious as Business Sweden and companies and that the government is already promising today in this House to set up a support fund for the brave Iranian feminists, such as My Stealthy Freedom, who are fighting against religious fundamentalism and the compulsion to wear a veil. The most important thing is that democracy work on the ground can actually produce results, as when the alliance government at the Swedish Embassy in Havana arranged an internet café for dissidents. In the same way, the Swedish Embassy in Minsk made a meeting place. Madam President, I would like Previously, man had a body and a soul. Now she also needs a passport, because without it he is not treated as a human being. That's what writer Stefan Zweig said in the 1940s when he was in exile in Brazil. As a Jew, he had been forced to flee his beloved Vienna. He was taken away – his home, his language and his Austrian passport. Now the Syrian civil war has gone on longer than World War II, as Zweig wrote about, and Sweden is on the UN Security Council. We Liberals demand that Daish's leaders be held accountable in a Nuremberg tribunal and that Asad's murdering regime cannot escape. We demand autonomy for minorities in the plain of Nineves. Finally, we call for free and democratic Kurdistan, support for the Peshmerga forces and a fund for those affected by Daish's violence.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-481	Madam President, I would like There is in many liberal politicians a fearlessness and firmness of principle that I admire – a moral backbone and principles that are put before cheap points. But now the cheap points have actually begun to come first. We are talking here about arms exports. What was done during eight years of alliance government? Now we are talking about a feminist foreign policy. But what did they accomplish for eight years in the alliance government? I remember very well what it was like when I criticised Saudi Arabia myself. Then you were the first to complain about me. Many of you are sitting here now and think that we should say one thing and the other about Iran, but then you were nowhere. That's when you sued into the choir, so the credibility is pretty low. What the world's great leaders and the autocrats we now see around the world are most afraid of are women. Otherwise, why should we start by introducing laws that restrict women in different ways? There are also some cheap points when it comes to Iran. There was a memorandum of understanding on women's influence and there was a special seminar on gender equality where women's rights were compared, and you are talking about the shawl. This is about not caring about the headgear, but the main thing. That is what we should be discussing.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-486	Madam President, I would like I began by addressing the issue of arms exports. I believe that everyone in this House realises that the view of arms exports to different countries has not been block-separate. It is individual parties that have chosen to take precedence. In the red-green bloc, the Green Party and the Left Party have been exemplaryly clear. And the Liberals, together with the Green Party, were the first parties to take a stand for the introduction of a democracy criterion over 12 years ago. It has not always been easy for us to get that policy through. I would like to mention that the first party to criticise when the Social Democrats concluded the first agreement with Saudi Arabia was the Liberals, me and Allan Widman. We can go back to spring 2015, when we had an intense debate here in this House around Saudi Arabia. I was on parental leave then, but in social media and elsewhere, I and Allan Widman were the ones who strongly defended you, Margot Wallström. We thought you had a clear, brave and principled voice-- you can go back to the press clippings and see that. Not everyone in the bourgeoisie did. That many were weak and lame I can be clear about saying, but we Liberals stood up for that side clearly. We have also been clear in our years in alliance governments against other bourgeois ministers who have not dared to call China a dictatorship or, for that matter, Iran or Saudi Arabia. There you can also go back and see what both me and Jan Björklund said as alliance ministers. So this is not always a cross-block issue. Now, however, we are in a political position where, after the Krut investigation and after the KEX investigation in the spring, the red-green government will land in a new arms export. Then I hope that the high ideals can become real political politics. It's incredibly important to us. That is why we look forward to what will come in April. But we do not want it to be a eroded democracy criterion, but it must be clear. Above all, Sweden should not sell arms to the world's worst dictatorship countries, whether they are Iran or Saudi Arabia.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-490	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Birgitta, for your support! With your party and some other opposition parties it was a little different then. I have a good memory. You know how to prepare. Now we are working on the proposal and looking at how it is to be translated into laws and that they are formulated so that this can work as intended. It is, of course, a fine piece of work. That is why it takes time to get the bill out, but the work is ongoing. What I want to discuss in the long term is how we can contribute to a Europe that is strong, coherent and principled. My impression of the women in the Liberals that I have worked with – Marit Paulsen, Cecilia Malmström, Cecilia Wikström and you – is that this is the really big and important issue and challenge for us in the future. I agree with the criticism of countries that violate human rights.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-494	Madam President, I would like In an increasingly turbulent Europe, which is not only to leave the United Kingdom, but where many countries are also challenging what is the basis of the European Union, it is important that we in this House can have a broad majority. We're friends of Europe with different nuances. I belong to the party that wants to go the farthest in cooperation and want to give the EU more power to combat cross-border crime, for example, with a European FBI. We also think that we need to be able to hand over more power to the EU in terms of tougher climate policy. We are not afraid of supranationalism as liberals. I agree with the fact that we must basically unite and have a very clear voice. I have not yet seen what has been the result of the meetings in Iran. But if we are to have a feminist foreign policy worthy of the name, it must be the toughest against the world's worst patriarchy. There we must have a very clear line. I hope that it will not be a memorandum of understanding that only the regime accepts, but also the feminists on the ground.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-497	Madam President, I would like You and I share many opinions and values, Birgitta Ohlsson, as you also pointed out when you took a line on me. One of the things we are passionate about is the Swedish aid, and you should pay tribute to the fact that you stand up for the 1% target and also did so during your time as a minister. We also share the view that Agenda 2030 and the Paris Agreement are important, as is the case with Kerstin Lundgren, and I would like to ask you: now that the government has, after a long process, produced a letter on a new aid framework that takes account of Agenda 2030 and the Paris Agreement and where civil society has been very content to have been involved and to sign it, why do you want to vote against it?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-500	Madam President, I would like It is no stranger than that in a democracy that the parties of the Alliance want to pursue the policy of the Alliance. We think that the platform we had during our years in government was better. Why do we think so? There are many things that are good in the government platform, and you should not throw out the baby with the bath water. But it is a lot about the priorities we had. What was important to me as a Liberal was that it was a clear perspective where three issues were at the centre. One was that democracy and human rights would have a much greater place in Swedish aid. The second was the rights of women and girls, that it was a clear gender perspective. The third was to have a clear climate policy. We feel that the platform that the government has worked out is much wider and more quirky. We believe that we need to concentrate aid much more in order to have the best effect. Our thesis is reinforced when we see a very changing political world. The first decision that Donald Trump made as the new President of the United States was to reintroduce the gag rule, i.e. suspend assistance to sexual and reproductive health. If I am not mistaken, the United States accounts for about 30% of maternal and health aid in the world today, so it is a large sum of money. Then we feel that it is important to have a more concentrated policy. Sweden will need to scale aid down on some fronts in order to spend even more money on girls' and women's rights. So it is a lot about the ideological perspective. We are a democracy and a parliament, and we cannot just buy everything that the government proposes. We think our policy was better, and we want to get back to it.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-506	Madam President, I would like I respect the fact that one stands for one's own policy. But it is not true that we do not focus on democracy, human rights, women's and girls' rights and climate and the environment in the aid framework. Another big difference between ours and your way of conducting development cooperation is that you have been very focused on results. You should have results, but in your case it has been about being able to follow Sweden's money into a project to see exactly what that project has contributed to, which has been short-term. Instead, we must see that development cooperation is long-term and that we must work in larger programmes and so on. This is where our view of development cooperation differs, Birgitta Ohlsson. Finally, how do the Liberals feel about the Moderates extending their hand to the Swedish Democrats? Is the Alliance still there?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-509	Madam President, I would like It feels like the points of speech have gone out unison from the government-supporting parties on this front. The Liberals, like the Center Party that Kerstin Lundgren presented, are clear that we do not sit in a government where the Swedish Democrats belong, and we do not sit in a government that has the Swedish Democrats as a support wheel under it. That is an important principle. I would not be able to represent a liberal party in this House that cooperates with the Swedish Democrats. That is a clear position from me. Back to aid. Hans Linde quoted Palme. Yes, politics is to want but also to choose. That is also the case with regard to aid. Sometimes you have to choose to concentrate your efforts in order to get a better result. This does not mean that there is a conflict between transparency and long-termism. It can be combined. Prioritising more would be both useful and urgent for Swedish aid.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-511	Madam President, I would like It has in many ways been a dark year for us who stand up for democracy and human rights and who hate racism and stand up for women's and LGBTQ people's rights. In Hungary, Viktor Orbán continues to undermine freedom of the press and pursues an increasingly xenophobic policy. In Poland the right to abortion and the independence of the courts are being attacked, and in the United States Trump is now trying to do exactly what he went to elections on: to undermine women's fundamental right to their own body and systematically discriminate against Muslims. In Turkey, developments may be even worse. The prisons are filled with journalists, judges and elected politicians. Poland, Hungary, Turkey and the United States are united not only by having right-wing nationalist and authoritarian leaders. All four are also members of NATO, i.e. the military alliance that Birgitta Ohlsson wants Sweden to enter. A few years ago Birgitta Ohlsson said in an interview that the main argument for NATO was that the military alliance was a ideological alliance to ensure liberal social systems. In view of developments in Hungary, Poland, Turkey and the United States, I have to ask Birgitta Ohlsson: Do you still think that NATO is an ideological alliance to ensure liberal social systems? I'll throw in one more question. Birgitta Ohlsson has also said that the basis of Swedish security policy is alliances with other democracies. Birgitta Ohlsson has been crystal clear in the past that it is important to speak clearly and say when a country is a democracy and when it is not and that we should call a dictatorship by its right name. Does Birgitta Ohlsson think that all the Member States of NATO are democracies? Does Birgitta Ohlsson think that today's Turkey is a democracy?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-517	Madam President, I would like Mr Linde and I have been debating this issue in Parliament for almost ten years. I will be open about the fact that in today's changing world, the most important reason for Sweden to become a member of NATO is our own security and the chance to preserve Swedish democracy and defend the human rights and freedom that our nation stands for. We must cooperate militarily and in terms of security. Alone is not strong, and NATO is the clearest choice. I can agree with Mr Linde that many NATO countries have seriously undermined human rights and democracy in recent years. That's it, and that's not something I'm running around with. Like you, I have debated many times in this House, for example, developments in Turkey with our Foreign Minister, Margot Wallström. But as the world looks today, I see no alternative for Swedish security than joining NATO. The most important task for all of us elected representatives is to ensure that our country is secured so that people in Sweden continue to live in freedom and democracy. Then there is no other option for me than NATO.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-521	Madam President, I would like That was as clear as the Baltic Sea during algal bloom. I asked Birgitta Ohlsson three specific questions: Does Birgitta Ohlsson believe that NATO is an ideological alliance to ensure liberal social systems, or does that argument no longer apply? Is the basis for Sweden's security policy still that we should be in alliance with other democracies? Does Birgitta Ohlsson think that Turkey is a democracy or not? Birgitta Ohlsson has, during the debate, given quite a few speakers an eviction because they have not been clear enough to use the concept of dictatorship. But what does Birgitta Ohlsson himself think? Is Turkey a democracy or not? It is clear here that Birgitta Ohlsson himself begins to swerve and to be unclear. For the Liberals, NATO membership is obviously so important that it goes before being crystal clear about democracy and human rights when it comes to Turkey, for example. Alone is not strong. But we don't get stronger by taking our backs on Trump and Erdo中an.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-529	Madam President, I would like Nor do we get stronger by relying, as the Swedish Government is doing at the moment, on just taking a back on Trump by unequivocally entering into bilateral cooperation with the US. Nevertheless, I prefer the deeper organisation that NATO stands for. This is a debate that Mr Linde, whose party cooperates with the Social Democrats, should perhaps pick up a little more often. The Swedish government is on Trumps's lap when it comes to military cooperation on that front. The world has changed. It was another NATO earlier. Countries such as Turkey, as I said in my speech, have changed the rule of law and are hugely challenging on many fronts in terms of human rights and freedoms. We are raising this in the Chamber all the time. Today's main reason for Sweden, however, is about our own freedom, our democracy and our security. We are building it with countries with which we can defend ourselves, and there NATO is the only option for us.
i-AZzN79rrHjUcFfycKHrgnY	Madam President, I would like American President Roosevelt said: Democracy is not a static thing. It is an everlasting march. Democracy is not static. Nor is that the world in which we live. Unfortunately, I think we are stuck – at least we were partly stuck – in the notion that we in the Western world have achieved a permanent state of consensus and security. However, the conflicts and developments of recent years have shown the opposite. Britain is leaving the European Union, and Donald Trump has been elected President of the United States. The will of the people defies what experts and reason saw as the only real solution. We see a new world order emerging, and Sweden must relate to this reality. Not least, this insight must be incorporated into the UN Security Council. Russia is once again a player with great ambitions on the international stage. Unfortunately, Russian interest has rarely been ours. The annexation of Crimea and the involvement in Syria with the Aleppo bombings can never ever be accepted. However, Mr Putin's firm action shows that we cannot ignore Russia. A coherent, wise and strong European policy is needed here. Madam President, I would like The world's eyes are on Trumps's Twitter account. On the basis of this, the media report on what is happening in our surrounding world. How the newly elected President of the United States acts is important, but today the world cannot be summed up or ruled by 140 characters. As Germany's newly elected Federal President Frank-Walter-Walter Steinmeier said, the challenges are more difficult than the black and white image conveyed via Twitter. But what happens beyond Trumps's Twitter account? The war in Syria has not ended. Nor has the Islamic State disappeared. On the contrary, IS still holds important strongholds and has regained the Syrian World Heritage city of Palmyra. And what happened in Mosul, Madam President? The news media reported frequently when the offensive against Mosul began in October 2016. Now the Journalist Corps is not there, but still is IS. These bloodthirsty warriors control the western half of Mosul and still control large areas of Iraq. The Islamic state, Daish, is not displaced. The terrorist cult is not defeated. White House documents show IS is operating in 18 countries. Millions of people live under terror where IS keeps ground. The military efforts to destroy IS must be intensified and those responsible brought to justice. This calls for initiative and a clear Swedish voice for justice. After the Holocaust, the world said, "Never again." It is a message that we were reminded of in this Parliament just a few weeks ago, when the Holocaust Memorial Day was recognised. But it happened again. It has been more than 20 years since the Rwandan genocide. And now it's happening in the Middle East. The systematic expulsion and murder of ethnic and religious minorities must be called what it is. A seat in the UN Security Council commits. A government that wants a value-based foreign policy must call this slaughter genocide. Otherwise, the solemn talk of values will be nothing more than empty words. Madam President, I would like For three years, the Christian Democrats have unfortunately had to point out that the government does not mention the need for religious freedom in its foreign policy declaration. And IS is driven by contempt and hatred for people who do not share their world view and interpretation of religion. Equally absent is freedom of religion, for example, in frequent Iran. There are persecuted, imprisoned and killed converts. Among the large refugee groups that have come to Europe are many people who have been forced to flee precisely because of their faith. But many of the fellow humans now suffering from violence and oppression cannot leave their countries. When was the last time we heard anything about the war in poor Yemen? In Yemen, 14 million people suffer from lack of food. Every ten minutes a child dies. Like Syria, Yemen has become a place of war for several actors. In addition to Saudi Arabia and Iran, Al-Qaida and IS are also involved in the killing of civilians. This complexity and the greater power struggle between Iran and Saudi Arabia do not fit in a tweet. However, this should be a priority topic when Sweden meets these two countries. Instead, the focus is on trade agreements and how Swedish ministers dress. Madam President, I would like As we read Trumps's tweets, the relationship between Russia and Belarus is being tested. Is Sweden ready for another conflict area in the East? The fighting in Ukraine is escalating. There's war in our neighbourhood... in Europe... and further conflicts are threatening our continent. The increased tensions between Serbia and Kosovo must be taken seriously. Can Europe make a war in the Balkans? Does Trump respond with more than 140 characters? And would Putin be outside? We must remember that it was American intervention that last stopped the fighting in the Balkans. The transatlantic relationship must not cease, but with the new President of the White House, Europe must do more. Europe must stay together and become a stronger force. The planned Gothenburg Summit should be about this – how the EU should take responsibility and behave globally – rather than about having social dialogue. Madam President, I would like As I said, the world is full of complexity. But it is the 140 signs that want to explain the events as blacks or whites that reach out. The red-green government has a rhetoric that tends to turn black and white. But placard politics clashes with the difficult balance of reality, and then it is economic interests and own ambitions of power that are given priority. A Swedish voice for the oppressed Cubans was not heard when the Swedish government signed agreements with the Communist regime in Cuba. Opposition leader Cardet is in prison today. If this is the case, there is silence. A Swedish voice was not heard clearly enough, at least not in the Swedish parliament, when it comes to human rights and freedoms and what was raised during the meetings in Iran and Saudi Arabia. Do not allow a feminist foreign policy to become a self-absorbed foreign policy. Sweden can do better than that.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-558	Madam President, I would like The security policy situation in the immediate vicinity of Sweden and the rest of Europe can be described in different words that describe a serious development – a development that we are in the middle of, literally. It can be called a new security policy situation, a deteriorating security policy situation or a more serious security policy situation. No matter what descriptive word is set before us to describe the development of the new security policy situation, what is described is the effect of the increase in inequalities in several countries in our vicinity. For us Social Democrats, it is important to work long-term for a just world. A fairer world is also a safer world. The fact that security policy is developing in the negative way that is happening at the moment is reflected in countries taking the liberty of changing their borders and neighbouring countries with arms power. It takes the form of military rearmament. It takes the form that more or less imaginative lies and pure misinformation are spreading more and more. It also takes the form of political representatives knowingly or unconsciously spreading the lies and misinformation, sometimes right here in the Chamber of the Swedish Parliament. But the foundation is failed national policies in countries that have created economic and social development that force people in these countries to live in increasingly poorer conditions. When people there are trying to protest and organise themselves in order to create better development, they are met by the regime in these countries restricting democracy, restricting freedom of expression, restricting media freedom and direct shutting down entire media activities and social networks on the Internet. In various countries close to the EU, we can see people who have ideas other than the regime being put in prison. They are put in prison for trying to organize people, for trying to point out alternatives and for trying to demonstrate and protest. It is even the case that elected leaders and parliamentarians, such as us MPs here in the Swedish Parliament, in other countries close to the EU, are put in prison. All this is happening in these countries to stifle the opposition and those who have ideas on how to create a better future and development. Then there is the ultimate straw to resort to for national leaders who are already in or are close to losing control. They create an enemy against the nation, usually in the form of an external threat, but sometimes in the form of an inner one. It is against this background, the desire to create an external enemy to cover up its own failed political governance, that we must see the deteriorating security situation, the military armament and the use of arms power against neighbouring countries or even against its own people. It is a bleak development, and in the long term only greater justice can solve the fundamental problems. In the short term, we in Sweden have to review our own security and be prepared if the worst after all happens to us. This is something that is not considered likely at present, but for which we must nevertheless be prepared. Sweden must have a security that can handle both the unwanted and the unexpected. This applies to both military and civilian. Sweden should be so prepared and organised that a possible attacker refrains from attacking. The long-term Swedish foreign policy is solid. This also shows the foreign policy declaration that Minister Wallström has made here today in Parliament. In most cases, there is broad political agreement on what are Sweden's most important values. It is a question of values taking precedence over policies of interest, our view of Europe, our view of countries' right to independence and self-determination, and our strong criticism of those who act with arms power and violate international law. There is a broad political consensus there, and it has existed for a long time. I hope it can continue to exist. In this brief speech in a long foreign policy debate, I have chosen to focus mainly on the very serious developments in security policy in the vicinity of Sweden and Europe as a whole. As a result, I have contributed to the picture that we share every day through media and various testimonies, a picture of a world with great problems. These are problems that can easily be abandoned. But I'm not going to be abandoned. There is also another picture you can give of the world. It is the picture that is also part of reality, namely that the world is getting better overall. More and more people are working together for their own living and global prosperity is increasing. Fewer people are starving. More children attend school; mainly more girls than ever before. Fewer people die from diseases that can be easily cured and even eradicated. That, Madam President, is also a picture of the security situation.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-570	Madam President, I would like When Sweden recognized Palestine, we were many who hoped that Sweden would also recognise Western Sahara. Unfortunately, the recognition, to many, was denied, despite the fact that there is a majority decision in the Swedish Parliament from 2012 that Sweden should recognise Western Sahara. Instead, Foreign Minister Wallström promised to continue working for the Western Sahara issue through the UN system. Now that Sweden is on the UN Security Council, I very much hope that it will live up to this with full force and act in order for this long conflict to finally be resolved. I did not hear Mrs Wallström or Kenneth G. Forslund mention the question of Western Sahara. I would therefore like to ask you, Kenneth G. Forslund, how you think that Sweden should act in relation to Western Sahara in the Security Council, now that you have this great opportunity.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-573	Madam President, I would like I thank Lotta Johnsson for the question of Western Sahara. Sweden will now continue to act and, above all, make the UN system act. That is what the government has said, following the assessments made of Western Sahara. The government has done careful work to investigate the situation and the possibilities for recognition. Unfortunately, the situation and the occupation of Western Sahara are so serious that it is not realistic today to say in practice that it would be a functioning, viable and independent state. The UN has an extremely important task in order to put an end to this occupation, to bring about a negotiated solution and a solution in which Western Sahara and Morocco can move forward and where both can have a democratic and positive future.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-574	Madam President, I would like Like several professors of international law, I do not really agree with the view that the grounds for recognition do not exist, but that the grounds for recognition exist in relation to Western Sahara. But this is not the only issue, but, of course, we must now move forward in order for this issue to be resolved. It is therefore extremely important for Sweden to act fully in the UN Security Council, particularly in order to bring about the referendum. It was decided on this referendum back in 1991, but it has not yet taken place. There, Sweden can play an extremely important role in speeding up the process so that this referendum takes place and that we finally end this long conflict. Then the Sahrawi will finally be able to return to their country after 40 years on the run.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-575	Madam President, I would like I share Lotta Johnsson's view that this conflict must be brought to an end and that people's votes or other arrangements must be made for the continued status of Western Sahara. Independence must be the aim, but we must also be realistic and see that, unfortunately, the occupying power is so successful in its divisiveness that today, unfortunately, an independent and free Western Sahara is not realistic. That is why the occupation must be broken, that is why social institutions must be built and therefore prosperity must be created.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-576	Madam President, I would like The world does not lack challenges. Our values are being challenged. The new normal is unpredictability. Free trade is challenged by protectionism; transparency is challenged by the finality. Terror laws are used to silence journalism. The space of civil society is shrinking. Sexual and reproductive health and rights are being attacked. Rights of women, LGBTI people and various minorities are being questioned. We are bombarded by invented news, and the difference between war and peace is increasingly unclear. It's about hybrid warfare and grey area, net hatred and media crisis. Institutions, laws and processes are challenged by populists, and the role of politics is changing. What does even political commitment look like in the future? The question I usually ask colleagues from different countries when we meet is precisely the question of recruitment. Who wants to be a politician? Politics has a part to play in dealing with this world. These are great expectations, and one must be able to navigate in this changing world. The role of politics is to see social problems and with our tools try to do something about them – and make it easy for more people to deliver solutions and contribute to better development. It's not easy. Madam President, I would like Sweden and the world mourn Professor Hans Rosling, who recently passed away. It was way too soon. Hans Rosling was a man who explained, spread knowledge and really attacked the misunderstandings that remain. His ignorance index is brilliant. The message is that we should see the world as it really looks and that it is usually better than we think. Poverty can be eradicated. Washing machines, clean water, vaccines, contraception and economic development make the world a better place. It is not by chance either, but by political decision-making by people. Development is not something that just happens – it is we who create it. After all, the world has become better and better in the last hundred years. It is reassuring, although we no longer have Hans Rosling who can help communicate facts and research. Madam President, I would like This part of the foreign policy debate is usually about aid policy and the challenges that are there – as historically many people on the run and the need for coordination, priority, efficiency, governance and transparency – and why the current government does not impress. However, in the near future, this House will be debating both what is called global development policy and the updated aid policy framework, so instead, I would like to broaden the debate and, in the last few minutes of my speaking time, mention something about one of the more peculiar conflicts in the world – the one in Korea. Last week, I and a colleague from the Defence Committee were present in Korea. It's a lot to take in. There are big opposites. We have a South Korea with ambitions and a modern economy and a North Korea with communist dictatorship and a completely stagnant planned economy, but with a small emergence of small, small marketplaces. There are higher education courses on one side of the border and propaganda on the other side. The whole situation is temporary. The demilitarized zone is the most militarised site on Earth. It takes 90 seconds for the missiles from North Korea to strike in South Korea, North Korea to develop nuclear weapons and the only rule that exists to stay in is a truce. Madam President, I would like At the border, there are those who monitor the ceasefire. There are a number of neutral countries which, at the invitation of South Korea and North Korea, are monitoring. South Korea chose Switzerland and Sweden, and we are still there. North Korea chose Czechoslovakia and Poland. After all, Czechoslovakia no longer exists, and Poland was unwanted by North Korea when it left the Warsaw Pact and joined NATO. Poland regularly shows up and signs the protocols, but it is not always there. However, Sweden and Switzerland remain in temporary barracks since the 1950s, and they cooperate with the USA and South Korea. We shall be proud of the military presence and the Swedish contribution to the management of the conflict. You do a fine job and work under very strange circumstances, and it is an effort that too few people know about. It is also an important part of our foreign policy.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-585	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Sofia Arkelsten! I very much appreciate what you are saying, and I have made that clear also in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. You say that the new normal is the unpredictable and that the new normal is fictional facts. Unfortunately, that seems to be the case these days. In that situation, I find it strange that the Moderates announce that the committee should start working with the Swedish Democrats, who represent precisely that kind of action. Therefore, my question to Sofia Arkelsten is: What are you going to talk to the Swedish Democrats about? Is it Russia policy, or is it LGBTQ issues? Are these issues of sexual and reproductive health, or is it freedom of the media? I would like to know, and I think that quite a lot of voters also want to know what types of issues you intend to work with the Swedish Democrats on in foreign policy.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-587	Madam President, I would like I appreciate the question. The claim is false. The Moderates will not cooperate with the Swedish Democrats. I understand that this is a point of order that has come to an end, and I realise that the foreign declaration was so meaningless that one of the news that is now spinning is that the Foreign Minister said so. The Moderates cooperate with the other parties in the Alliance. If it is the case that the Swedish Democrats, probably contrary to what they themselves think, would vote for our policy, we will be bigger, and then we will win. Because we have a very weak government, and we have a tricky parliamentary situation. However, I would appreciate it if the Social Democrats could refrain from spreading false facts. It's unworthy, and you can do better.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-589	Madam President, I would like Then I note that Sofia Arkelsten has a different position from her own party chairman, Anna Kinberg Batra, who was clear about talking with the Swedish Democrats in the committees.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-590	Madam President, I would like Of course, that is also wrong – we feel the same way. It is very clear that the Social Democrats are trying to confuse what is a conversation and what is a cooperation. The Moderates cooperate with the other parties in the Alliance. We have had a policy that we do not even talk to the Swedish Democrats in committee. I can see that this is quite embarrassing even for the Social Democrats. We just had the question of Western Sahara up. During the last parliamentary term, the Social Democrats – this has been admitted openly in the media; it was Urban Ahlin, who is now the Speaker – and negotiated with the Swedish Democrats to create a majority in the Riksdag to recognise Western Sahara. So what the Social Democrats blame the Moderates for has already been done themselves. I can say once again that we are not cooperating, but we can talk to all parties in the Swedish Parliament. If it is the case that the Swedish democrats, probably contrary to their opinions, would like to vote for alliance policy, they are welcome to do so. I also understand that it is shaky for the Social Democracy now.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-593	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Sofia Arkelsten how it is that the Moderates want to cut aid in a situation where aid is needed more than ever. The world is facing a large number of humanitarian disasters. For example, Yemen, where three out of four depend on humanitarian aid, or Nigeria, where the United Nations estimates that at least 400 000 children are undernourished. A new food crisis is threatening in Somalia due to drought. I find it remarkable that we want to cut back on aid. I would like to refer to Western Sahara in this context too, because the Sahrawi refugee camps are now threatened by a reduction in aid. It would be quite devastating because the Sahrawi refugees are totally dependent on external aid for their own survival. They live under very difficult conditions in the Sahara desert. How do you view that question, Sofia Arkelsten?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-595	Mr President, I would like to I interpret Lotta Johnsson Fornarves' question as describing the difference in the budget as a cut. The Moderates' draft budget uses the old way of calculating the 1% target. That is the way the government itself used up to the previous budget. We will have to come back to this and think about how to deal with the new BNI calculation. It is more a technical calculation that has changed; there has been no reduction in aid. However, we can be clear that we would like to see development of aid policy. I see that we need to broaden the concept of aid and have more modern, effective, transparent and follow-up aid. I also believe that we will see a shift towards more humanitarian aid, because we are seeing crises in the world today that we have never seen before.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-597	Mr President, I would like to As I understand it, the Moderates still want to cut back on aid, overall. I would like an answer to Sofia Arkelsten's view of the support for the Sahrawi refugee camps. Is it right to cut back on this support in this situation? We are in a difficult situation; there are several who have cut back on aid to the Sahrawi refugee camps, such as Spain. I do not agree with shifting the perspective to humanitarian aid. Of course, both development aid and humanitarian aid are needed. Development aid is extremely important for long-term work, to ensure that countries that are currently dependent on aid are not dependent on it in the long term. So you're supposed to give help for self-help. That is the idea of long-term aid.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-600	Mr President, I would like to What a good thing we are standing in this Chamber so that I can sort this out! No, the Moderates do not want to cut back on aid. It's the find, the false facts. I note that the old way in our draft budget is the way we calculate bni. That doesn't mean it's a cutback. We respect the OECD-Dac. But the Swedish economy also has major challenges. That's why we can't go any further. I have been straight and clear about this before. It is the government itself that must respond to why any aid to the Sahrawi refugee camps is being cut. Unfortunately, it is not the Moderates who are in government right now. But we're working on it, and we want to do it together with the Alliance. But it is the present government that must answer that question. So the Moderates don't want to cut back on anything. We're a little lower, because we're using another way to figure out the bni.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-605	Mr President, I would like to We all remember the attempted coup d'état in Turkey in 2016. A coup d'état is always democratically reprehensible, whether it succeeds or not. President Recep Tayyip Erdo has used the coup d'état as an excuse for mass arrests and redundancies of civil servants, such as military, police, judges and teachers. A large number of companies have also been forced to shut down. According to Amnesty, more than 2,500 journalists have been laid off, nearly 800 have lost their state press cards and 169 media have been shut down. Some 500 000 Kurds were forced out of their homes last year after brutal raids by the Turkish authorities. Turkey's recurrent repression of minorities should long ago have opened the eyes of Europe's leading politicians to what is going on. In connection with the recent presidential elections in Turkey, several Kurdish politicians from the new left party HDP were subjected to beatings while their premises were set on fire. Mr Erdo has joined forces in Iraq to attack the Kurds, even though the democratically elected government in Iraq has opposed it. And in Syria, Turkey has attacked the NATO Allied SDF. Turkey's action is clearly contrary to human rights, and developments are worrying both for the Turkish people and for Europe's security. It is horrifying to see the West's flatness against what is happening in Turkey. During the January session of the Council of Europe, an up-to-date debate on the situation in Turkey was voted down by both the Agency and the House. And during the autumn session we saw Members from different countries defending Turkey's President Erdo and his repression of political opponents before and after the coup attempt. Mr President, I would like to During his visit to the Council of Europe, the Turkish Foreign Minister portrayed parts of the Syrian Democratic Forces as terrorists, although they constitute the main democratic force against IS and similar Islamic extremist groups and despite the fact that the group is supported by the majority of European governments. He defended the regime's mass arrests and redundancies of soldiers, police officers, judges and teachers, but also the systematic imprisonment, loss of jobs or other repression of a wide range of political opponents, including violence. As if that were not enough, President Erdo has now announced his government's plans to reintroduce the death penalty. It is a red curtain for the European Council in which Turkey is a long-term member. The fact that so many people came to be regarded as terrorists just days after the coup attempt is not only suspicious but also an indication of what kind of regime we are dealing with in Turkey.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-613	Mr President, I would like to Sweden took up its seat in the UN Security Council in January 2017. This is gratifying, but it also means great responsibility in a world facing growing climate threats, large flows of refugees and a number of serious conflicts. In Putin Russia, human rights continue to be violated in a number of areas. This applies, in particular, to freedom of expression and the rights of women and LGBTQ people. The illegal occupation of Crimea also continues unabated. The United States has had an unpredictable president who has condemned international law and the United Nations. It is a president who attacks women's right to their own body, who wants to build walls and who does not take the global work to save the climate seriously. With Trump in the White House and Putin in Russia, it is extremely important that Sweden uses its membership of the Security Council to stand up for international law, peace and human rights. One of the most serious conflicts of our time is undoubtedly the war in Syria. It is a war that has led to an incredible amount of suffering, starvation, rape and destruction. More than a quarter of a million people have been killed in Syria, and half of the population are on the run, inside or outside the country. There is no military solution to the conflict in Syria. The only solution is negotiation. The Security Council must, of course, play a decisive role here. In the peace negotiations, it is important that both Kurdish forces and women are included. It is not reasonable that the forces that have taken a great deal of responsibility to fight back against Daish should be excluded from the negotiations. Sweden must also act vigorously in order for humanitarian aid to reach the part of Syria that is under Kurdish control and where the needs are enormous. In neighbouring Turkey, where many Syrians have fled the war, we see human rights being violated and democracy being dismantled step by step. On the pretext of the military coup, mass arrests of oppositionists and journalists have taken place. The Kurdish population has been particularly affected. 160 media sources have been closed, as have hundreds of civil organisations, trade unions and so on. Democraticly elected mayors of 35 Kurdish cities have been deposed and in some cases arrested. In November, 12 MEPs from the left-wing party of the HDP were arrested. Among those arrested were the party leaders. I was in Turkey in December, together with our party leader Jonas Sjöstedt. The purpose was to visit the two HDP leaders in prison, but we were not admitted. We were told that both are isolated under very difficult conditions. The HDP members are imprisoned because they have done their job as parliamentarians and made criticisms of the Erdo Government. It's just... It's... it's... it's... it's... it's... Sweden must act vigorously in order to release the imprisoned HDP parliamentarians, mayors and other representatives of HDP as soon as possible, together with imprisoned journalists and other political prisoners in the country. Against this background, it is unworthy that the EU has allowed Turkey to act as a border police force to prevent refugees from entering Europe. The agreement with Turkey should be terminated as soon as possible, and negotiations on EU membership should be frozen pending Turkey's start to respect human rights. Following the recognition of Palestine by the Swedish Government, many of us hoped that the Saharian Arab Democratic Republic, Western Sahara, would also be recognised, in line with the decision taken by a parliamentary majority in December 2012. But the confession failed. It must be regarded as a great betrayal. On the contrary, Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström promised to continue working for a solution through the UN. Now that Sweden is a member of the Security Council, I expect the government to live up to its promise and do its utmost to ensure that Africa's last colony will finally be free. A large part of the Sahrawi population has been living in refugee camps in Algeria for decades as a result of Morocco's occupation of Western Sahara – an occupation which is illegal and illegal and which has been condemned by the International Court of Justice in The Hague. The conditions in the camps are very tight and you are completely dependent on support and help from outside for your survival. Nevertheless, almost half the Swedish aid to the Sahrawi refugee camps in 2017. The health situation in the Sahrawi refugee camps is already serious. A quarter of children under five years of age suffer from chronic malnutrition, and many women suffer from iron deficiency. A reduction in aid may be seen as another example of the outside world turning its back on Western Sahara, and there is an imminent risk that frustration will increase and that the forces that want to resume the armed struggle will be given new energy. Another armed conflict is hardly what the world needs. The Sahrawi refugees have waited over 40 years to move home. We in the Left Party now expect the Swedish Government to restore aid to the previous levels and act forcefully in the UN Security Council in order for the Western Sahara issue to be resolved and for the referendum that was decided on back in 1991 to be brought about as soon as possible so that the over 40-year conflict can finally be resolved.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-631	Mr President, I would like to It was gratifying to hear the criticism of Turkey both from Hans Linde and from Lotta Johnsson Fornarve in the Left Party. It is also gratifying that we are quite consistent in this criticism. My question to Lotta Johnsson Fornarve is: Would the Left Party consider working with the Swedish Democrats on these issues to work for human rights and the rights of the Kurds in Turkey?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-633	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party does not cooperate with the Swedish Democrats on any issue because we have completely different views on important fundamental issues. This applies, for example, to the view of immigration, the right to asylum, equality and a variety of other issues. Then we might end up in the same position on some concrete issues. It is, of course, gratifying that we share the view on the Western Sahara issue and, to some extent, Turkey. On the whole, however, there is an incredible difference in our views.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-635	Mr President, I would like to So the Left Party believes that it is better to keep on your own pride than to cooperate in an area where you can work for human rights and the rights of the Kurds?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-636	Mr President, I would like to For us, it is important not to cooperate or be associated with a party as clearly xenophobic as the Swedish Democrats are, and we will continue to work on that.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-637	Mr President, I would like to There has been a major debate in recent days on the visit of the Government to Iran and the Iranian regime's laws against its women. We in the Liberals, of course, condemn the repression that is taking place in Iran against the population and, not least, against its women. We are also strongly critical of the Swedish Government's silence. One is surprised that a government that claims to be a feminist foreign policy shows such a reluctance to one of the world's worst dictatorships that has made gender apartheid and female oppression one of its foremost hallmarks. The repression of the Iranian regime also affects us directly in Sweden and in Europe. Thousands of Iranians have been forced over the years to flee to Sweden. The massive support and participation of the Iranian regime in the Syrian regime's war has driven millions of refugees. Many of them have also come to Europe. Mr President, I would like to The Iranian regime is not just any government. Iran is currently heavily involved in five conflicts and fragile areas in its neighbourhood: Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, Yemen and the Kurdistan region of the Iraqi Federation. In addition, the leadership of the country is grossly anti-Semitic and denies the existence of the State of Israel. The very large-scale crimes in Iran and the level of war crimes in Syria mean that it is impossible to regard the Iranian leadership as a partner for stability and constructive development in the Middle East. But the Swedish Government is doing just that. It acts as if Iran were any state. And it is described as a central trading partner for Sweden. It can be noted that Sweden's goods exports to Iran last year were lower than our exports to Iceland. In Iran there are 80 million people and in Iceland there are 300 000 inhabitants. Even before the sanctions, our exports to Iran were very small. It is possible that it is increasing now that sanctions are lifted, but it is happening from very low levels and not with any long traditions of extensive Swedish exports to Iran. But the Swedish government describes the country as a very central trading partner for Sweden. Sweden's exports to Iran last year were significantly lower than exports to Israel – a country that our government is very actively engaged in to impair relations with as much as possible, which may also be worth noting. Mr President, I would like to It is possible that the Swedish Government regards the Iranian mullahs as the solution to the Middle East's problems. I find it hard to see how that equation should go together. Iran is acting today in a way that will greatly impede the reconstruction of Iraq after IS has been defeated. Militia groups are being set up in Iraq, loyal to the Iranian revolution, as has been done with Hizbollah in Lebanon. It is deeply involved in a power struggle in the region with Saudi Arabia, which is pushing for an ever deeper gulf between the two main bays of Islam and, by extension, will almost make peaceful coexistence in the region impossible. Attempts are being made to destroy the possibilities for effective Kurdish self-government in Iraq, and there is also persecution of the Kurdish population in Iran. It makes it almost impossible for Lebanon to have a functioning state apparatus through support for Hizbollah, and it supports terrorist groups among the Palestinians. It drives Israel and the Palestinian Authority so far apart that it becomes considerably more difficult – it is already difficult as it is – to reach a two-state solution. Mr President, I would like to The government's new Iran policy, if you may call it that, is based on two legs. The aim is to increase Swedish exports to Iran and, at the same time, to engage in dialogue with the Iranian government. But this dialogue should take place without transparency behind closed doors and it only takes place with the leadership of the country, not with the oppressed population of the country. That policy will not make Iran more democratic. Nor will it mean that Iran acts more peacefully in the Middle East region. Rather, this policy risks strengthening the Iranian regime and increasing its legitimacy. Sweden must formulate an Iran policy aimed at providing support and solidarity for those forces outside the regime that have a democratic agenda. In addition, we must systematically and continuously, clearly and openly expose and condemn the Iranian regime's crimes against its people. You hang people in cranes. You stone people. You whip people. Such penalties are imposed in this country, which is surprising that the government is so silent about. It is only if Iran becomes a democratic state that respects the rights of its citizens and recognises that men and women have equal rights that Iran can become a worthy country to live in. But this is also the only way that Sweden can have really favourable and fruitful trade relations with Iran in the long term.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-651	Mr President, I would like to I believe that I broadly share all the criticism that Fredrik Malm is making of Iran and the atrocities that Iran exposes dissidents to. But one thing is rather strange. Fredrik Malm does not seem to know that this is the criticism that Sweden delivers to Iran when we meet representatives in different contexts. Fredrik Malm could have known and even heard for himself whether it was not that he refused to attend meetings with Iranian representatives, for example, here in the Swedish Parliament. Why do you refuse to do that, Fredrik Malm? Why are you not involved in delivering the criticism on which there is a broad consensus in Sweden directly to the Iranian representatives? I can assure you that we do not usually have any suspended discussions with Iranian representatives. Why does Fredrik Malm want to talk to some but not others?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-654	Mr President, I would like to To begin with, we do not know what is said at the meetings referred to by Kenneth G Forslund because there is no transparency. There's no public access. It claims that certain issues are raised, but we do not know. We don't know what they're saying. Of course, you might think that you are sitting down and talking to a general from the Iranian Revolutionary Guard, and Sweden might say, "We would appreciate it if you stop torturing people or sending thin bombs to civilians in Syria." I can assure Kenneth G Forslund that that goes in through one ear and out through the other. We can, of course, have a dialogue. I'm not saying we shouldn't have a dialogue. What I am arguing for now is that if Sweden wants to export as much as possible and have a dialogue in closed spaces without transparency, such a policy must be combined with a clear and transparent argument for democracy in Iran, for the rule of law in Iran and for supporting those who want democracy in Iran. I believe that many Iranians in Sweden expect this from our government.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-657	Mr President, I would like to We have broad participation in the Swedish Parliament for Human Rights. I am confident that every Swedish government, whether led by a center party, a moderate or a social democrat, stands up for these values and delivers such criticism, even if it does not always come out in the public sphere. I'm safe with this. However, I am concerned if Fredrik Malm is not confident that various governments in our country actually deliver such criticism. My question remains: Why does Fredrik Malm himself not participate in meetings here in the Swedish parliament where criticism has been made to Iranian representatives? Fredrik Malm has boycotted these meetings.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-659	Mr President, I would like to It depends a little on the forms of such meetings. If it is a question of courtesy visits to which the Parliament is to participate, in which Members do not believe that it is at all worthwhile to talk to the regime, we take the right not to attend such meetings. It is surprising that the government is building a two-legged Iranian policy. They want to export Swedish products, and they want to engage only in dialogue with the country's leadership, not its people. They want to do this without transparency rather than doing it with open and visible criticism. You want to do it behind closed doors. Mr President, I would like to I believe that such a policy will not lead Iran to act more constructively and will not lead to Iran becoming more democratic. We can have such a policy, but in that case it must be combined with the fact that we openly, clearly and visibly mark against the regime and condemn the abuses that are taking place.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-662	Mr President, I would like to Nordic cooperation is strong and in many ways very constructive. Since the establishment of the Nordic Council in 1952 and Finland's entry in 1953, the Nordic Council has been an important political arena in the post-war Nordic region. The issues dealt with are of a very different nature, but many of the decisions have had a clear impact in the Nordic countries and thus in the world as well. The freedom of passports between countries is fundamental. This has given residents in the different Nordic countries unique opportunities for mobility and mobility across borders. Of course, it is linked to certain challenges – we know about border controls – but, in essence, the decision has benefited the contacts between citizens well. Solving the old and new border barriers issues is a high priority in Nordic cooperation. There is a Border Barriers Council appointed by the Nordic Council of Ministers. There are various Border Barriers Committees working locally to resolve border issues affecting daily commuters or tourists crossing the border to trade. The Border Barriers Council is working to find solutions to be decided by the governments of the Nordic countries. The issues are many times complex but also often easy to solve when there is a political will for it. Border barriers issues can be about the right to have your own nation's parental insurance when working in another Nordic country, about the right to care for relatives with your own nation's family benefit in another country, about tax issues and so on. Mr President, I would like to Last year, a report on the Nordic labour market was presented. Issues raised in the report concerned lifelong learning, social dumping, integration and more. There are many similarities in the Nordic labour market but also some differences. However, the Nordic labour market is a very large and important opportunity labour market. Many skilled Nordic professionals, researchers and younger people have had the opportunity to commute between countries through decades, periodically settle in another Nordic country and also find temporary jobs in another Nordic country when there has been higher unemployment in their own country. With this in mind, the Nordic countries must continue to strive even more for increased worker mobility and find more solutions that will stop these obstacles. There is intensive work going on in the Nordic Council to highlight more member proposals that promote an increasingly integrated Nordic labour market. Mr President, I would like to Global tourism has landed softly and well in the Nordic region. All Nordic countries have an increase in the number of foreign tourist nights with tourists from both within the EU and outside the EU as well as from the other Nordic countries. The Nordic Council and the Council of Ministers have increased efforts in 2016 to promote increased sustainable tourism cooperation in the Nordic region. Among other things, the Swedish Government has appointed Britt Bohlin, Secretary General of the Nordic Council, to investigate the conditions for a coherent policy for sustainable tourism and growing tourism. It is a clear signal to promote tourism nationally and in a Nordic context. A great many issues are dealt with in the Nordic Council and in the spirit of the Nordic Community. It would take too long to touch everyone. However, I will mention a few more. There is a strong desire to develop the Nordic energy market. Ollila Jorma has been commissioned to investigate in particular how energy security can be secured between the Nordic countries. There is also talk of unique research projects between the Nordic countries and about finding the most sustainable energy solutions. There is today a new research report on the importance of increased Nordic climate cooperation. As you know, this is closely linked to the way we use our energy sources. In 2017, Tine Sundtoft, former Norwegian Minister for Climate and the Environment, will conduct a strategic review of the environmental sector in the Nordic region to find new opportunities for impact in environmental and climate cooperation between the countries. Mr President, I would like to The Nordic Council of Ministers has recently given the go-ahead to establish Nordic Innovation House in New York. It is a joint project between all Nordic countries with the aim of developing opportunities for Nordic companies to establish themselves on the US market. It is an exciting project, and we very much hope for it. The Nordic Council has also begun a process of implementing the 2030 Agenda in a Nordic context. There is a strong interest in pervading future decision-making in the Nordic Council of Ministers' 2030 spirit. Mr President, I would like to The Nordic region is also part of the Arctic. There is a good consensus to develop more factors that influence the development of the Arctic in a positive direction. In recent years, the Council of Ministers has focused more on facilitating economic growth in the Arctic. There is potential for innovation and entrepreneurship in tourism, bioeconomy, food and food culture, creative industries and, not least, green growth. Cooperation in security policy has shifted, but there are many examples where we in the Nordic countries work together with both intelligence and joint defence exercises. In a troubled time, with a newly elected president in the United States who in his whimsicalness can create the most remarkable decisions and wander in a direction that does not benefit the Nordic region, it is particularly important that we meet each other in different arenas to secure our surroundings around the Baltic Sea, the Norwegian Sea and Barents Seas. It is also important that we, with our individual defence capabilities, can find areas where we can, if necessary, assist each other in times when it is necessary. Sweden's cooperation with Finland is important. Now the government has also taken a new step to strengthen cooperation with Norway. We also look forward to more cooperation with the Baltics.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-679	Mr President, I would like to The foreign policy debate has been going on for a long time now. There are few of us left in the Chamber, but it does not mean that the debate is closed, and that does not make the debate any less urgent. In my speech, I will touch on some of the issues on which the OSSE, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in E uropa, is working. I do this because the issues are urgent and concern us all. This applies not least to the foreign policy situation. We live in a world of crises, as has been said before. This is something we must work towards. But we cannot do it alone in Sweden. We need to work together. We must use all available networks. The OSSE consists of 56 member states, from the USA and Canada to Mongolia to the east. The OSSE uses dialogue as its main tool, focusing on human rights, democracy and political security. One area I want to highlight is cybersecurity. It is an issue that is topical today, because we know that cyber security affects choices and people's views. It also risks affecting the availability of security services and the functioning of society. It can be such simple things as access to money, transport and more. With regard to cybersecurity, I would like to highlight a perspective that is important to consider. It's about free speech. At the risk of cyberspace intrusion, there is also a risk of the free word being cut. As a democratic country, we must work towards this. The second area I would like to highlight is women and women's rights. In the OSSE last summer, the Parliamentary Assembly stated that it was important to implement the gender perspective, including the gender perspective of migrants, and not exclude anyone. What has happened since then? Well, the Russian Duma has legalized wife abuse. It's a big setback. It is easy here in Sweden to talk about women's rights, but there are actually countries in our neighbourhood where women do not have the right to own financial assets and where women do not have inheritance rights. These are important issues for all of us to highlight. I think, of course, that it is important to ensure that women are included in the peace-keeping work and that women sit at the negotiating table, but we must not forget the usual issues. We must not forget women's rights when it comes to everyday life. Another area we want to highlight is the Russian aggression against Ukraine. I want to do it from the perspective that we must not forget what is going on in Ukraine. It has been three years since Russia invaded Ukraine. It has been three years since Crimea became a territory under Russian control. Three years have passed since Luhansk and Donetsk were attacked. There is a risk that the West will silence and forget what is going on because there are new issues on the agenda. It is important that we work to ensure that European economic sanctions remain in place. It is important that the OSCE observers are present, because we must not accept that one country should override another country's right to self-determination. What I would also like to highlight here as an important issue when it comes to foreign policy is corruption. We're going to work against corruption. With my mission within the OSSE, I can see how corruption always exists when there is a lack of democracy. I have not heard any of the previous speakers highlight corruption and its scourges, but I would like to strike a blow because corruption poses a great security risk and a great risk that free society is adversely affected. Now Hans Linde is not here in the Chamber, so it is really wrong for me to say something about this, but I do so anyway: Turkey is an important issue. What is happening there is the abuse of democracy, with the imprisonment of people suspected or believed to have a membership of an association. Over 40 000 people are imprisoned without trial. This is a great sin and shame, and it shows how important it is for us from the free world to raise the issue. That is also something we do within the OSSE. I look forward to the OSCE's winter meeting, which will take place in two weeks' time. That is where we will pursue Turkey's issues and all the other things I mentioned.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-688	Mr President, I would like to In today's foreign policy debate, many aspects have been highlighted, and this is important. I would like to highlight two issues. One is women's rights. The other is the Middle East, the Kurds and HDP. The Swedish feminist government should not submit to the laws of other governments that discriminate against women. Unfortunately, it has now been done in the case of Iran. It is not worthy of a feminist government and Sweden to submit to sharia laws in another country. It is expected by the Swedish feminist government to stand up for women's rights, whether in Iran, in the suburbs of Sweden, in Saudi Arabia, in Latin America or in Africa. This is an important principle for Sweden, and I know that these issues are being pursued in this House. We have a very committed Foreign Minister, Margot Wallström. What has happened is not worthy. When our other ministers, including the Prime Minister, go to other countries and shake hands, there is no problem. But what if the mullahs shake hands with our women and ministers? That's the next question you can ask yourself. There has been a sensational debate all over the world. CNN, BBC, French newspapers – the whole world has written about this, and indeed rightly, because much more is expected of Sweden precisely because of the feminist foreign policy profile. It is also a social democratic government, and that is why it is important to always remember it. It is actually expected more of Sweden. In future negotiations on trade agreements and other agreements, not just with Iran or Saudi Arabia, I hope that there will be mutual respect and that the negotiations will take place on both sides' terms, not just on one side's terms. The issue is also important because Sweden is a member of the Security Council and is now the chairman. It is expected that we will act on behalf of women in Eastern Congo, Sudan and the war in Syria and Iraq. It is expected that we will act for the Yazidian girls who are still in Daish's prison in sex slavery and for the girls and women in Nigeria who sit in Boko Haram's camp and are used as sex slaves. It's important to be their voice. It is very important to be that from the speaker's seat in this House. The second question on the Middle East concerns the role of Turkey, Iran and Saudi Arabia in the Syria conflict. The situation of the Kurds and other minorities is also very important to lift up. All of a sudden, everything changes. The whole world has eyes on Iran, Turkey and Saudi Arabia, and Russia is to negotiate how, for example, the Syria conflict is to be resolved. It is regional, fundamentalist and non-democratic powers that will resolve the conflict and bring peace together with Russia. It's shameful. In Turkey, Kurdish politicians and leaders, such as HDP leaders, who have won elections, have received over 10% of the seats in Parliament, and who have been given over 140 years in prison on false grounds. This has been done on false grounds precisely because they are Kurds and socialists. It has been done under the Erdo ar government, and it is Erdo ar that in this case will resolve the conflict in Syria. It has supported Daish and other terrorist groups and, like Iran, has a foothold in Syria. It is therefore important that Sweden, for example, should hopefully be able to take initiatives and bring the EU together around Turkey. Turkey is a candidate country for the European Union and therefore it is important to gather forces and ask whether it is possible to negotiate with a country like Turkey when it imprisones 40 000 people and has 12 Members and party leaders imprisoned. The Kurds do not get their human rights and freedoms in their country. The Kurds in Syria are also fighting Daish. They are excluded in the negotiations because Iran and Turkey do not want any Kurdish rights in their respective countries. It is important that we raise this issue. I hope that Sweden will vote for the Kurds and for the women.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-697	Mr President, I would like to Today we have had the debate on foreign policy for many hours. It took the lead in the foreign policy declaration. It is in this document that the Swedish Government can show the direction it has for politics internationally. The Foreign Minister stressed the importance of bilateral cooperation between individual countries and between more multilaterally, both in his speech and in the replicas. Mr President, I would like to I, too, believe in cooperation. I believe in the fact that if there are more of us, we can do more. I believe that what I do with others is always more effective than what I do alone. Together we can do more and do more. Free trade unions and organisations where workers can join forces to ensure their rights and conditions in the workplace are subject to strong pressure around the world. The right to organise, the right of association, is attacked in country by country. We often read about how it affects political parties and representatives. But labour law fighters are also imprisoned, restricted in their assignments and subjected to various reprisals. Nor is it surprising in those countries where we have been brought to the attention of serious abuses in the workplace and where deaths are part of the everyday life of workers to see that trade union rights are severely limited and, in many cases, not even existing. Mr President, I would like to Everything has a price, nothing is free, they say. But there are still some things that don't cost super much. It is quite free to hug your dog, to laugh with your friends and to enjoy the warmth of the sun, if you are not Kirunabo and would rather have some cold. But the furniture I buy, the coffee I drink and the clothes I hide my body with have a price. Sometimes the goods may seem cheap because I don't have to spend much of my income on them. But then I forget something important. Everything has a price. If I don't pay that price, who will? I think we've all seen the pictures of the people standing in a chemical bath to make our clothes look nice red and have no choice. There are Swedish companies that have moved the production of clothing to countries where the demands on the working environment are lower than they are in Borås and wages a fraction of the Swedish. It pains to know that companies that have been able to grow in our country choose to move production to ensure higher profits at the expense of human value. However, we have a great opportunity here, which is not always mentioned. Mr President, I would like to Last year I visited Brazil and Electrolux factory in Manaus. Had I not known where I was then, I could well have believed that I was here at home. The workers I met described how they systematically worked with the work environment. They described how the Swedish and European companies are most popular to work at because the conditions are so much better. They described a working life that is for people and companies who protect the good work. Competitors are forced to raise their standards in order to obtain skilled staff. The good spiral is up and running. Strong Swedish trade unions can also place demands on their companies internationally. There we see Scania, for example. Step by step, we can thus promote democracy and human rights. Mr President, I would like to I welcome the initiative taken by the current government by inviting representatives of free trade unions when Sweden is to be represented abroad. Last week Iran was visited together with other IF Metall presidents. I assume that this is something that is intended to continue in order to demonstrate that workers' rights are valued and allow for change that would not otherwise have happened. I would like to conclude my speech with a confession. I've never read a book about Harry Potter, and I've never seen a Harry Potter movie. On the other hand, I'm a big fan of the authors of the books. I would now like to conclude in a foreign policy debate by saying something in foreign language. We do not need magic to change the world. We carry all the power we need inside ourselves already. We have the power to imagine better.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-706	Mr President, I would like to In the 2015 foreign policy debate, I called on NATO, from this speaker's seat, to group troops from the US and Germany to those Member States that experienced threats from Russian expansionism. Despite the fact that NATO has now acted in accordance with that call, I humbly choose not to make a new call this year, but rather to give a firm hope. While the foreign policy debate has been going on in this House, NATO defence ministers have been sitting behind closed doors in Brussels. My hope is that Secretary of State Matti of the United States has delivered a message from the new American administration that reads something like this: the United States continues to be a guarantor of its commitment to European security in NATO. At the same time, I think he has made it clear that the United States is looking forward to Europe also being more involved in European security. It is a wish that American administrations of various political colours have expressed for many years. The aim is to ensure a more balanced bearing of the cost burden for common security. As I said, I'm not going to come up with a call this year, but rather a hope. I hope that the states of Europe will be sensitive to this position and will be prepared to bear their share of the common security. If there is such a development, I see that NATO could be the engine of important transatlantic cooperation. In Sweden we often believe that NATO is only a military alliance, but it is a political alliance. Our partnership could also raise important issues of free trade and freedom. So I have no call this year, but only a pious hope.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-710	Mr President, I would like to Not all crises or deaths are front - page news. I would like to devote my speech to talking about Ethiopia and Sweden. Sweden and Ethiopia have long historical ties with each other. Ethiopia was Sweden's first aid country, but our relationship goes much further than that. Swedes went early down to Ethiopia to mission. When the Italian fascists tried to invade Ethiopia, Swedes fought with Ethiopians. Carl Gustaf von Rosen, who bombed food to the needy during the Ogaden War, is a Swede who gave his life for Ethiopia. He is now buried outside Addis Abeba. Many Swedes went to Ethiopia, including to build schools, during the construction of folk homes and the development of welfare in Sweden. Our ties to the Ethiopian people are long and strong. What, then, is the situation today? In the shadow of the civil war in Syria and the attempted coup in Turkey with its repugnant purges, Ethiopia is now faced with something that has developed to the brink of a civil war. For some weeks, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has advised Swedes not to go to certain places in Ethiopia. In the Ethiopian Parliament, a law was adopted in 2016 which means that it is illegal to work for human rights in Ethiopia. It is not only members of political organisations that can be severely punished if they work for human rights; even members of non-governmental organisations can risk up to 15 years in prison. Membership of an organization alone can result in 10 years of imprisonment. For some time now, organizations such as Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International have been banned in Ethiopia. For a long time, those in Ethiopia have used tactics to divide and rule. The regime is spreading hate speech that constantly reminds the country's minorities of historical wrongs. Different minorities are being pitted against each other. Tens of thousands of people are on the run. Oromos are being confronted with ungades, ogans against Amhars, amhars against orophies, and so on. In the Gambella region, over 400 people have been killed and tens of thousands expelled from their homes. In the Oromo region, one of the reasons for the current uprising is that the regime is seizing the land of the oromo peasants. Many have been killed, and many are on the run. In the Amhara region, hundreds have been murdered and tens of thousands have been imprisoned during the uprisings of recent months. Ogadens have been incited to war against orophies. It may be that the regime is now making an agreement with the Ogorans and Oromos to punish the Amhars. If there are criminal expeditions against Amhars or any other ethnicity in the region, Sweden must act and mark. Olof Palme gave a famous speech Christmas 1972. He listed atrocities in modern history such as Guernica, Oradour, Babij Jar, Katyn, Lidice, Sharpeville and Treblinka. The judgment of posterity has fallen hard upon those responsible for the murder. To the long list of names is now added an Ethiopian: the massacre in Ireecha in 2016, where hundreds of people were killed and thousands arrested. Discharge cannot be an option. The guilty must be brought to justice. Sweden and the international community should demand that. Sweden is a small nation with a big heart. So we must also tell our friends the truth even when it hurts. In Ethiopia there is a progressive constitution that guarantees freedom of expression, among other things. However, there is a difference between the freedom of expression of Sweden and Ethiopia. When you have spoken in Sweden you are still free, but you are not in Ethiopia. To the Ethiopian regime, which we know takes note of this speech, I would like to say the following: Frige Professor Merera Gudina, leader of the Oromo Federalist Congress, who is imprisoned after his visit to the European Parliament! In this speech, this political prisoner, whom I have mentioned, may represent all the thousands and thousands who are imprisoned. Show the courage to dare to follow your own constitution! If you are as popular as you say in propaganda – show it by meeting your people at the ballot box and not by tanks! I will also mention Eski Nega, who has received an award from PEN International, as a symbol of all the journalists who are imprisoned. At the beginning of my speech, I said that not all deaths are headlines. The very much living Ethiopian runner and silver medalist Feyisa Lilesa crossed her arms after his finish in the Olympics. His crossing of his arms became front page news. One arm stood for democracy and the other for human rights. Likewise, millions of people worldwide are now doing the same. Do not let these raised arms and hopes be in vain! Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you for the opportunity to highlight Ethiopia, its challenges and the role of Sweden.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-722	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anders Österberg, for an interesting post! It is obvious that you have a great deal of commitment to this issue. In view of how you describe what is now happening in Ethiopia and the human rights challenges, I would like to highlight the debate article written by Pierre Schori in the newspaper ETC at the beginning of January. He describes how he, as a special envoy or similar, has been responsible for campaigning to the UN Security Council. He describes a change of vote that Sweden is said to do with Ethiopia regarding the Board of UNESCO. I wonder if Anders Österberg has any comment on this. It is possible that you have not read the article, but how do you feel that and if the Swedish government wants to change its voice with Ethiopia?
i-WARAu73GHA3PSGkVk5Sby9	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the line, Sofia Arkelsten, and thank you for your likely coming engagement in Ethiopia and the commitment you already have! It is not uncommon for countries to change their voices when they stand as candidates for various UN bodies, for example. This is something that the current Swedish Government has done and which the previous Swedish Government also did in the UN Security Council campaign. We are pleased that both the opposition and the government supported Sweden's campaign to the Security Council. We expect us to remain on the line that it is good that Sweden is in the UN Security Council so that we can continue to pursue human rights and democracy issues there.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-727	Mr President, I would like to I have also asked the Foreign Minister the question and received the answer that it is about Sweden's values and priorities. My picture is that the priorities may have gone ahead of the values. My question to Anders Österberg is: Is it your view that Ethiopia would do a good job on the Board of UNESCO, which works precisely with freedom of the press, freedom of expression and the cultural aspect?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-729	Mr President, I would like to I forgot to say in my last line that I have not read Pierre Schoris's article, although I always recommend everyone to read what Pierre Schori writes. Of course, I expect Ethiopia to pursue human rights in a UN body, but the greatest expectation I have in Ethiopia is that they will start pushing issues of democracy and human rights at home.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-731	Mr President, I would like to We live in a time of concern, and 2016 has been an eventful year in the world. Examples of international events that have attracted attention are Brexit and Donald Trumps's victory in the American presidential election. The general political debate, as expressed in the media, is more marked by protectionism. Among other things, questions have been raised about the future and the strength of cooperation such as the EU and NATO. Russia manifested a more active presence in the Swedish neighbourhood, and the Swedish government clearly declared that the total defence should be restored. Turkey, a country which was the subject of a coup last year, has been given a central role in maintaining European refugee policy. The year has also contained terrorist attacks, such as those in Brussels, Nice and Munich. In Sweden, too, gunfire has occurred in troubled areas resulting in death. 2017 has started with, among other things, North Korean provocations, uncertainty about whether the US administration will want to continue to be a heavy player in global contexts and nurture the transatlantic link, as well as continued uncertainty in Turkey. Russia's illegal occupation of Crimea continues, as well as its aggressive behaviour through, among other things, advocacy campaigns and cyber warfare against several of its neighbours. The forthcoming elections in Germany and France in an EU that is being tested by extreme nationalist movements making themselves felt makes the unrest here at home grow and the future looks bleak. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency notes that the unrest is spreading slowly but surely in our country. The 2016 opinion shows that nine out of ten people in Sweden believe that today's Sweden is a good country to live in. Four out of ten believe that in five years' time the situation in Sweden will be similar to today. However, twice as many people believe that Sweden will be worse to live in compared with the proportion who think it will be better. For my part, I can see that foreign policy in many ways has become a domestic policy. Mr President, I would like to Recently, I was with the Foreign Affairs Committee travelling in Armenia, a small country in the Caucasus which, through its values, seeks to establish stronger ties with the European Union. It is a country with great dependence on Russia and a difficult existence in relation to some of its neighbours. Armenia is one of the six countries forming part of the Eastern Partnership, which is the EU's political framework for deepening relations with Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Moldova, Ukraine and Belarus – all of them former Soviet republics. The ability of these countries to develop into vital democracies and market economies and to make their own foreign policy choices is central to a secure and stable Europe. Mr President, I would like to The Eastern Partnership has existed for more than seven years. It was initiated in spring 2008 by the then Swedish Foreign Minister Carl Bildt and his Polish against the defendant Rados ł aw Sikorski. Among other things, the partnership would reduce barriers to trade, facilitate travel, improve energy infrastructure, etc. The strategic core of this partnership could be summed up with a phrase from Johannes Hahn, EU Commissioner for Regional Policy: the EU is facing the choice to export stability to neighbouring countries or import instability from the same region. Here, Sweden needs to continue to push forward in order to emphasise the importance of the partnership leading to visible improvements for ordinary citizens in these countries and to defend the fundamental idea within the Union, namely that common problems require common solutions. Armenia values Sweden's work and friendship, which we experienced during our visit. Mr President, I would like to The development of the partnership is strongly influenced by the increasingly aggressive Russian attempts to undermine the continued EU proximity of partner countries. Russia has increased its ambitions to integrate neighbouring countries within the framework of the European Union. This means that, in my opinion, the countries of the Eastern Partnership, to which Armenia and Ukraine belong, will be faced with difficult decisions in the future. On the day we resign and pretend that Russian tanks across internationally recognised borders are not in fact so dangerous, our first line of defence has fallen. On the day we lift the sanctions linked to Russian warfare in Ukraine without Russia fully fulfilling its commitments, then our second line of defence has fallen. That is why the European Union's sanctions against Russia are so important. It is our main instrument to face the ravages of the Russian regime. We may be unable to prevent Russia's action in Ukraine and elsewhere – and we can, by all means, engage in dialogue in the hope that it will win them over to the good side – but it is our duty to show with action that we do not accept what Russia is doing today. It is also our duty to demonstrate through action that their actions have a price, both politically and economically. Mr President, I would like to During my first term of office in the Swedish Parliament, I have had the privilege of being able to say through travel in different parts of the world on the ground that there is uncertainty in many countries and that the citizens of other countries are deprived of their human rights and freedoms. I have seen how democratic institutions do not work, conflicts plague people and powerful clans rule countries with an iron hand with the help of corruption. I have seen oligarchy and systematic violations of human rights. I have taken note of Sweden's important role, but I have also taken note of Sweden's ambitions to be crowned as the world's humanist champion. On this point, I would like to reflect with others on the question of whether Sweden's role is to save the earth alone or whether our country's role is to... ( ANDRE VICE TALMANN: Now the six minutes have passed. I would ask the honourable Member to conclude his speech. )
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-749	Mr President, I would like to Last December, I was outside school to pick up my child. Then Ingemar, who was also waiting for her child, came up to me and said: Isn't it strange! It's December, and we don't have much snow. And that's plus degrees. Then we're in Lycksele in Västerbotten. In over five years, we haven't had a real winter. It is strange, of course, that there are some politicians who do not believe in climate change! In December 2015, 175 countries signed a new climate agreement that will enter into force by 2020 and binds all countries. The agreement means that the global temperature increase should be kept well below 2 degrees and stay at 1.5 degrees. Mr President, I would like to To reach the 1.5 degree target, more active climate policy is needed with more action from more countries around the world. Climate-deniers in the White House and right-wing extremists in Europe make me anxious and concerned about whether these countries, which have promised measures, will deliver. As I said, a great deal of action is needed to reach the 1.5-degree target. The effects we see of climate change today are a deterioration of fish stocks in tropical areas that depend entirely on local fishing. The oceans are getting warmer and sourer. The glaciers are melting globally at a faster rate than before and increasing the risk of a sharp rise in sea level. Mr President, I would like to There are several reports from the UN Panel on Climate Change, including from 2014, which show more and more clearly the effects of climate change. For example, Arctic ice melts faster than on the rest of the planet. In 2012, sea ice and snow cover had decreased by 40 per cent more than the average for the last decades. Climate change is no longer just about warmer climates and more precipitation; climate change is about threats and opportunities and is increasingly linked to foreign and security policy. One example is the link between protection of the climate and the environment and respect for human rights. They are receiving increasing attention, not least in the work on Agenda 2030. Drought and increased precipitation mainly affects countries in Africa and Asia. Climate change is a security threat that will exacerbate many problems abroad, create political instability and bring social tensions, poverty and more. Mr President, I would like to Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström mentioned in the Foreign Declaration on 24 February 2016 how the government in foreign policy will have a broader view of security, and she mentioned climate change as a global security threat. The Government's letter on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Swedish foreign policy highlights how Sweden wants to work to implement the climate agreement and Agenda 2030 as part of the work on human rights, democracy and respect for the rule of law. Therefore, the Government intends to increase attention to links between climate, environment and human rights. Furthermore, the Government intends to pursue issues of democracy, transparency, participation and environmental analysis to promote social, economic and environmental sustainable development in the world.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-758	Mr President, I would like to In May 2016, American historian Anne Applebaum wrote that European security policy is only three choices from its decay. The future then depended on Brexit, on the American presidential elections and, of course, on the forthcoming presidential elections in France. Of course, if Applebaum is right, it remains for history to deport, but the stakes are high. It is this security regime that has created peace, prosperity and economic development in Europe for half a century. This is also a safety regime that is subject to strong external pressure. Europe is surrounded by wildfire of conflicts from the Mediterranean to the south, through the Levant and the Caucasus to Donbass in the east and the Arctic Sea in the north. It is a Europe in which Russia has chosen to use military force to redeploy European borders both in Georgia and in Ukraine, and in other cases to act in the borderland between total peace and total war using hybrid methods. We are increasingly seeing how events outside Europe affect ourselves. Perhaps the most obvious, but not the only, example is the terrible conflict in Syria. The conflict has led to the largest migratory flows in Europe since the Second World War. It has inspired terrorist attacks in Berlin, Paris, Nice and London. As a result, more than 300 people in Sweden have gone to the Middle East to join terrorist organisations such as the Islamic State. Never before have the security policy challenges for the European Union been as difficult and as extensive as they are today. I believe that we all, o intended party membership, are working to try to understand, manage and respond to the new world. However, one thing is quite clear: this is not the time for security policy inaction. If we do not take responsibility and shape the security policy order, other forces will do it for us. It is forces that neither share our interests nor share our values. On the contrary, it is forces that see our values of human rights, freedom of expression and democracy as weaknesses to be exploited. Mr President, I would like to The only way in which Sweden can seriously influence the European security regime is through strong action in the EU and NATO. I see two important reasons for the work. Firstly, Europe needs secure and prosperous neighbours. The Eastern Partnership, enlargement, must focus on ensuring that Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia can remain independent countries that can also make their own security policy choices in the future. Not least, it is important to strengthen the countries' resilience to Russian hybrid attacks. However, the EU also needs to deepen cooperation with NATO and link the instruments of internal and external security. It is in this very point of intersection that I believe that Europe can do a great deal of good for European security. As a matter of fact, it is a question of linking all aspects of what is known as the European Security Union, that is to say, the fight against terrorism, organised crime and cyber-attacks, and then linking them with the common foreign, security and defence policy. These include developing the EU's capacity to manage crisis management operations and targeting military and civilian operations towards the EU's neighbourhood. Secondly, NATO is and remains the only organisation capable of securing the central European and western European borders. In the light of the new Trump administration, it is all the more important for NATO to be strengthened and for the European countries to step up their defence efforts. NATO's new prominent military presence in the Baltics and Poland is good for the entire Baltic Sea region, and Sweden is more dependent than ever on the security that NATO delivers and maintains. At the same time, we see that the difference between partnership and membership of NATO is increasing as NATO approaches the hard core of security policy, that is, the common defence obligations. If we really want to strengthen the European security regime that NATO represents and defends, we shall also become full members of the defence alliance. It is ultimately only then, as full members, that we can take responsibility and influence an organisation that is absolutely crucial for Europe and our own security. Madam President, I would like This would be an important step in the right direction in order to prevent the total deterioration of the European security regime that has been warned by author Anne Applebaum.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-769	Madam President, I would like When I grew up, we always talked a lot at home at the kitchen table. It was rarely about party politics, and we almost always had different opinions. But I was taught to listen to others, first because things can look different in different perspectives and never fail my moral compass. The same applies to large parts of politics, not least foreign policy. Today, my parents are here in the gallery. They have said that every human being must take responsibility, make it morally correct and stand up for the right of others; otherwise, you are just a little dirt. I am proud today to be part of a party that runs a clear feminist foreign policy and takes great responsibility in all contexts. Madam President, I would like Let me give you some examples of what it has contributed to. Last autumn the Foreign Affairs Committee visited Swedfund. For those who do not know Swedfund, the Swedish state's development funder is to help eradicate poverty by creating sustainable entrepreneurship in developing countries. Anna Ryott spontaneously told us how pleased they were about the new directives that had come in this term of office. Gender and gender perspectives are now included as a criterion in Swedfund's mission, and these are issues that they have a mandate to run on company boards around the world. It was something they had longed for. A feminist foreign policy makes a difference to many people around the world, for example through business development. Another concrete example is that the government, together with RFSL, works with comprehensive competence enhancement on LGBTQ issues both at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and at the embassies. A feminist foreign policy makes a difference even in the LGBT area. In the time that we are living in now, where some men still believe that they have the right to control women's bodies, the Swedish government stands out clearly that a large part of the aid will go to organisations that work with sexual and reproductive health and rights. A feminist foreign policy makes a difference to many people around the world, even to those who live in countries where abortion and sex education are unfortunately not self-evident. Madam President, I would like The fact that Sweden was widely voted into the UN Security Council was, I believe, due to the message that the government's representatives had during their election tour: to make the Council's work more transparent and result-oriented, to focus on the situation of girls and women and to prevent rather than deal with conflicts that have already arisen. Now our first month of 24 in the Security Council is over, a month when Sweden has held the presidency. Once again, feminist politics is a red thread. When, on 4 January, a united Security Council expressed its support for national mediation efforts in the DRC, it stressed the importance of women's participation. This was done on Swedish initiative and will hopefully lead to better negotiations and a more sustainable solution for the entire population of the Democratic Republic of Congo. For example, Sweden arranged a briefing for representatives of civil society on the Security Council's work programme for the month of January. It was the first time that a Council Presidency carried out such a briefing for civil society. It should be routine, I think. Very good has been done, but much more remains to be done in the world. It makes me worried that Sweden's largest opposition party in the Riksdag has started talks with the Swedish Democrats on various issues. The Swedish Democrats' policy, which is to make a difference between people, to put Sweden and Swedes first, to turn the clock back and to restrict women's rights, is thus to be discussed by Moderates. How will this affect moderate foreign policy? I received no answers from Sofia Arkelsten to my previous questions. I'm rather worried about what this will mean in the future. Madam President, I would like We operate within the art of the possible, not within the desirability. But for us Social Democrats it is about achieving as much positive development as possible for as many people in the world as possible. The OECD said during its recent visit to Sweden that the world would be a much better place if we could spread the Swedish model to more countries, especially the parts with equality and gender equality. We Social Democrats try to do this every day with our active and clear foreign policy, and although foreign policy is vastly larger than our kitchen table at home in Upplands Väsby, I think the same wise principles apply. We strive to understand others and their perspectives, but we always stand up for humanity, for the moral right and for those who need us. Otherwise, we're just little bastards.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-783	Madam President, I would like I listened to the speech by Åsa Eriksson. I am more and more surprised when I hear the government, or Members of Parliament here, talk about the government's feminist foreign policy. I recall the OSCE Council of Ministers in 2016. This was attended by the Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs. But I would like to say here with determination that the issue of an equal opportunities programme, that women's rights should be taken into account, was not even on the agenda. I did not hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs protesting against this. I didn't hear the question come up. I would like to have a comment on this.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-786	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Margareta Cederfelt! As we have heard the Foreign Minister say several times in both the Foreign Affairs Committee and in this House, the government always highlights the issues of feminism, gender equality and the rights and opportunities of girls and women. Then, as I said, we work within the art of the possible and not always within the art of the desired. What happened in exactly the example that Margareta Cederfelt mentioned I cannot comment on because, although she initially said so, I am not part of the government. But I am confident that the government is constantly raising these issues as much as possible.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-788	Madam President, I would like I apologize for saying wrong, Åsa Eriksson. Åsa Eriksson is a Member of Parliament, just like me. What I wanted to say is that the government obviously does not use all the international platforms that exist to pursue a feminist foreign policy, and I find it very sad. If you claim to be a feminist government, you should use the international networks that are available to you, and that includes the OSSE.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-790	Madam President, I would like There I absolutely agree with Margareta Cederfelt. Sometimes I think that some parties hang on to some things and do not see what is important and essential that is achieved. I thought the Minister for Foreign Affairs got to it rather cleverly when it came to Iran's journey – that one should focus on the mains and not on the headgear. This does not apply to the OSSE. I cannot respond to the exact context, but I am absolutely convinced that the government in all of them takes every opportunity to promote the rights of girls and women.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-792	Madam President, I would like It saddens me that Åsa Eriksson once again repeats something that she knows is not true. It was beautiful, a lot of what Åsa Eriksson said. It was about standing up for what is morally right, or else you're just a little dirt. Then I wonder how Åsa Eriksson views what she describes here, when we have already had a change of line where I announced and explained how the Moderates relate to all the other parties here in the Riksdag. We can talk to everyone. Does Åsa Eriksson think that we are working together now when we have a conversation, when we talk to each other at coffee in the committee or when we meet in the corridor? So the Social Democrats are negotiating real politics with the Left Party. That is something for which you must take responsibility. But don't make it up, Åsa Eriksson!
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-796	Madam President, I would like I listened to Sofia Arkelsten's party chairman, Anna Kinberg Batra, who actually came up with a historic message a few weeks ago. That message included that the Swedish Democrats would be a party with which the Moderates would talk in the committees. Something is upsetting us very much. We are also talking to people, regardless of party affiliation, in the committees. You ask for the word, and you replicate each other. So do we in this House. But talking about our politics is a huge difference. It's letting SD into the cabin heat, and we have a lot against that. So I wonder: What about the conversations? The Moderates have previously said that you should not talk to the Swedish Democrats. Now we have to talk with the Swedish Democrats in the committees. What will that mean for moderate foreign policy?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-799	Madam President, I would like I say again that something is shaking here. I'm disappointed in the way Åsa Eriksson behaves right now. My party leader announced that we want an alliance budget. If the Swedish Democrats vote against their political convictions – what happened when you lost the budget vote the first time – they can do so. That's not something we're going to stop. But there is no difference to what Åsa Eriksson describes, that you can have a conversation with other members of the Riksdag. There's no difference whatsoever. I can only note that the Social Democrats in the form of Urban Ahlin, who is now the President, sat and negotiated openly – he has acknowledged this in the media – with the Swedish Democrats in the committee last parliamentary term to ask the government to recognise Western Sahara on the issue of the EU Yearbook. There's so much in this that hurts. I wonder: how will it affect the foreign policy of the Social Democrats that you behave in this way?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-803	Madam President, I would like What hurts here, Sofia Arkelsten, is that you say that there is no difference. In the past, the Moderates were clear that they should not talk to the Swedish Democrats, and now they do. What also chafes is the story of Urban Ahlin and Western Sahara, which, according to my party colleagues who were at the time – I was not myself – is not at all true. So I think what hurts here, Sofia, you have to sort out with others. But for me and for many in Sweden it is extremely important to understand what this change in Moderate relations with the Swedish Democrats will mean for foreign policy.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-806	Madam President, I would like I couldn't help asking for a reply when I heard Åsa Eriksson in some strange way blaming the Swedish Democrats and think it was strange that we should put Sweden and the Swedes first. I can say with pride that as a political party we protect Sweden and the Swedish people and put them first. Madam President, the question I want to put back is which Social Democrats put first. Is it the Canadians and Canada, or are it the Brazilians and Brazil? What are the Social Democrats first to put if it is not Sweden and the Swedes?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-808	Madam President, I would like It was great, Björn Söder, that you brought this up – thank you! There's a very big difference here, I think. We conduct a policy that is good for Sweden and for the rest of the world at the same time. We are convinced that the best thing for Sweden and the Swedes is that other countries, nationalities and cultures are doing well as well. A safer and fairer world is a safer world, as Mr Kenneth Forslund said in his speech, and this is where I believe the great dividing line between our parties exists. We always stand up for people's equal value and human rights, but we also believe that what is best for Sweden and Swedes is also good for others around the world.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-810	Madam President, I would like I don't understand why one should rule out the other. But we are a Swedish political party in the Swedish parliament, and it goes without saying, I think, that in any case we in the Swedish Democrats put Sweden and the Swedish people first. But I think it's good that Åsa Eriksson and the Social Democrats are clear to the Swedish people that neither they nor the country comes first because they think it's strange that we should put Sweden and the Swedes first. We do, and I want to be clear about that.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-812	Madam President, I would like That was a gross misinterpretation of Björn Söder. We think it is important to protect all people, and we believe that it is in Swedish interest that we also look into the interests of other countries in Swedish security policy. We can be very clear about that. But that we always stand up for the equal value of all people, no matter where they were born and which country they live in, I think is extremely important.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-813	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by reading an 18-year-old quote: Russia's development is positive, but it has major problems, not least economically. This provides a breeding ground for political dissatisfaction. Russia still has large military forces. Disarmament agreements and the economic situation have reduced conventional forces in Europe. But modern equipment remains, and has increased in Sweden's vicinity. To then decide on the disarmament of the Swedish defence, with regard to what happened after the defence decision of 1925, is insane. A disarmed defense takes years to rebuild – that time does not exist at a threat of war in modern times. ..................................................... The quote, which – I admit – may not be the best worded, comes from the Swedish Democrats Youth League's first principle programme in 1999, where I, as a 23-year-old and quite new in politics, wrote the defence policy section. That, 18 years ago, I argued that developments in Russia were positive had its background in communism having fallen and Russia was developing towards the West at the time. That was before Vladimir Putin was elected prime minister and later president. Nevertheless, we warned Swedish democratic young people about disarmament. And long before the party entered Parliament, we warned against the disarmament of our defence capabilities and that the security situation could change rapidly. Unfortunately, both Social Democratic and bourgeois governments have been most guilty of the disarmament of our defences. The fact that we, as governments, did not understand what I understood, as a 23-year-old with very limited understanding of defence and security policy issues, is a mystery to me, Madam President. When the bourgeois government took power in 2006, the territorial defence was sent to the final slaughter, and instead the priority was to play world police by military action in distant lands. Even when Russia entered Georgia in 2008 and showed that it was prepared to change borders on our own continent by force, it woke up and understood that things were happening in the East. When we entered the Riksdag in 2010, we stood here in the pulpit, with no response from the other parties, and continued to warn that the world situation would change rapidly. For several years we warned against this and that our country's defence capabilities were compromised at the expense of foreign efforts and poor human resources. In the Swedish Defence Committee 2013, the Swedish Democrats, the Social Democrats, the People's Party and the Christian Democrats wanted to get sharper wordings about Russia. This was opposed, among others, by the Moderates, and the Swedish Defence Committee's moderate chairman Cecilia Widegren said in SVT's Politik in focus on 30 May 2013 that there is no threat to Sweden, nor do we see any intention of such a thing developing. Together with the Left Party, the Green Party and the Center Party, the Moderates wanted to tone down the threat from Russia. It highlighted arguments such as the fact that Putin could not afford to carry out his grand armament. So the ability to analyse was not very impressive, Madam President, and unfortunately it continued to hang on. Moderate Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt called the defence a special interest, and as late as at the People's and Defence National Conference in January 2014, in the midst of the ongoing protests at the Majdan Square in Kiev and after Russia had conducted its largest preparedness exercise in many years, then Minister of Defence Karin Enström, who is currently in this Chamber, spoke about the fact that a security policy situation in the Baltic Sea region is more stable today than 10 years ago, and that the assessment that an armed military attack against Sweden is unlikely for the foreseeable future is also the basis for the design of the defence. Not until Russia sent its troops into Crimea on 28 February 2014 and occupied parts of the territory of a European sovereign state, and the Swedish Security Service in April of the same year warned that Russia was preparing for war or threat of armed violence against Sweden, the Moderates woke up together with several of the other parties. When all of a sudden the Swedish invasion defence was again in focus. But now they also began to propagate seriously for a Swedish NATO membership. Several years of disarmament not only resulted in the use of money for all kinds of tax relief; it also resulted in seeing movements in Swedish opinion. Arguments such as this have now increased, and we have no ability to defend ourselves, so now we have to join NATO and more and more often – in no case rarely from moderate and bourgeois quarters – were heard. Madam President, I would like NATO advocates often argue that membership of the Alliance would significantly strengthen our defence capabilities and contribute to stability and security in the immediate vicinity of Sweden. That is, of course, nonsense. Instead, it is just the opposite. A Swedish membership would increase tensions in the Baltic Sea region and risk disturbing the geopolitical balance and thus dragging Sweden into conflicts instead of preventing them. Furthermore, we do not even live up to the demands of membership because we are dedicating far too little resources to the defence. We Swedish democrats are clear in our attitude towards great power alliances and have been so since the party was founded. We believe it is important that we maintain our sovereignty in the field of foreign and security policy. As a small country, we must relate to our environment and take national responsibility for the security of our region and not expose ourselves to unnecessary risks. On the contrary, our alternative to securing our country's security is to have its own defence force with proper defence capabilities, but also a defensive defence alliance with Finland, which would provide a good complement to this. Nor would a defence alliance with Finland upset the geopolitical balance of power in our region. Sweden and Finland face the same security policy challenges in view of the countries' common geographical situation. A defence alliance increases the threshold effect and creates new strategic depths, strengthening the defence capabilities of the countries. If, for a moment, the Swedish NATOers stopped basing their positions on inadequate ideological analyses and instead base them on factual risk and vulnerability analyses, they would soon realise that we are right, as so many times before. Unfortunately, many of them lack this ability to analyse, which is well reflected in the debate that has taken place in recent years. What I, as a 23-year-old 18 years ago, could predict, the other parties have obviously only now realised. 中 A disarmed defense takes years to rebuild – that time you do not have at a war threat in modern times. .....................................................
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-831	Madam President, I would like It is, of course, tempting for the Swedish Democrats to use the current security policy situation around us, which is getting worse, to try to prove that they have always been right and that they were right already 18 years ago or so. But it's nothing new that Sweden or other countries download in times of relaxation and installs in times of increased tension. It is most reasonable to do so and to adapt one's defence to the situation that prevails. That is what Sweden has done. We have done so throughout the 20th century. At times we've had a pretty disarmed defense. We have had one of the three or possibly four largest air force in the world. It's a picture of the range. Björn South! Would you have wanted to refrain from the welfare efforts that became possible in the 90s and 00s?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-833	Madam President, I would like We have shown through the draft budgets we have presented that priority can be given to both welfare efforts and a strong defence capacity. The problem in defence policy is that we cannot simply say that it is safe in our environment and that it should therefore be dismantled. Now it's changed, and now we're going to get ready. It's kind of like saying, it hasn't burned in my house for the last ten years, so now I'm picking up my smoke detectors, because I can't afford to buy batteries for them-- it's unnecessarily wasted money. Or as if you quit your home insurance just because you haven't had any burglaries and it hasn't burned. The defense must keep a high level at all times. You can't have a quick fix when the world changes fast. What has been done in Sweden is that the whole system has been slaughtered. It's not something you just change overnight, but it takes years to build them up. We've made the same mistake in history. In 1925 we did so when we said that there was peace in our day. In 1939 we got the result. We're not gonna make the same mistake, and that's what we've done now.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-837	Madam President, I would like Again: It is, of course, tempting for the Swedish Democrats to try to show on this issue that they would have been right all along. But unlike Björn Söder, I do not think that the solution to the defence needs of the 2010s for Sweden would have been to stand with the organisation of the 1990s and the equipment of the 1970s. On the contrary, it was a wise policy, in time of relaxation, to disarm the Swedish defence and transfer that money to welfare efforts. This happened long before the Swedish Democrats entered the Riksdag. It is unclear, but one can imagine what the Swedish Democrats would have wanted to conduct politics then. Then my question remains. It is not as simple as Björn Söder says, that you can do both today. This is a historical question to Björn Söder: Did Björn Söder want to refrain from the welfare efforts made possible during the 1990s and the 00s through the defense decisions taken then?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-839	Madam President, I would like I do not at all share Kenneth G. Forslund's view that these were wise decisions that were made. We are seeing the results of them today. Those were really not wise decisions. I am not here to say that we are right in everything, but in this case we have actually been right in what we have said. The safety policy analyses and assessments we have made have been correct. You can go back and watch that. We look at our draft budgets and see that we can make welfare efforts while at the same time providing the most money of all parties here for increased defence capabilities. But this is five past twelve. It's already too late. I am not saying that we should not do it now, because we have to do it, but it would have been done long before, and above all we would not have dismantled it. Of course, we should not remain with a static defence force that never changes. Of course you have to develop it. We're making new purchases of equipment and so on. We must develop and streamline the Swedish Armed Forces. That, of course, is the case. It is not, therefore, a question of remaining in the defence of the 1990s.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-843	Madam President, I would like I have learned that politics cannot be pursued by saying from the pulpit: What did I say when I was 23 years old? How is it going that Björn Söder says together with the Swedish Democrats' doubtful attitude to Russia? He reminds me of a spectator who from the spectator's seat can play better football than those who play on the field. Again, how does Björn Söder explain the attitude of the Swedish Democrats towards the Russians and the party's heartfelt ambition to take Sweden away from the European Union?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-845	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have been very clear in their criticism of Russia and Russia's actions, not only with regard to the Georgia conflict, but above all with regard to Ukraine, which violates a sovereign state and illegally occupies part of a country's territory. There we have been strong in the condemnation. We have also supported the sanctions imposed on Russia. In the debate here earlier, someone mentioned that our representative in the Committee on Defence should have said that Russia was not the enemy. That's right. Russia is not our enemy, but neither is our friend. That's how we usually look at them. We do not need to paint all countries as our direct enemies before we ourselves have been exposed to any threats or attacks. On the other hand, we have been clear that Russia is not our friend at the moment, and we have clearly condemned their actions.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-847	Madam President, I would like You cannot pursue future-oriented policies by looking at the rear-view mirror. A good advice to Björn Söder and the Swedish Democrats is not to sound out from the Chamber: Look how right we were all along! Instead, one should focus on forward-looking policies that focus on the task and Sweden's challenges. That is my proposal to Björn Söder and the Swedish Democrats.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-848	Madam President, I would like It's pretty important to look in the rearview mirror. Learning from history can also make good decisions for the future. At least that's what I usually aim for. If you know your story and what mistakes you have made in the past, you may not repeat them. In this case, I can only note that the same mistakes have just been made in this country in 1925, when our defence capabilities were dismantled. Now it has suddenly been realized that the world situation has changed drastically, which we have warned against. I'm afraid I have to say that we were right. Look, we were right! Then maybe it's also a signal to other parties and to Sotiris Delis that maybe you should listen to us a little more in the future, because we're probably not completely wrong when we talk politics. History has shown that we are quite right in a lot of what we say. This applies not only to defence policy but also to immigration policy and other things. What we were able to predict in the 1990s has come true today.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-851	Madam President, I would like Recent times have shown that once change comes, it will also come quickly and forcefully. Last year, the Brexits voted in favour of a withdrawal from the European Union, and we finally got a Brexit. As the first country in the history of the Union, Britain chose to strongly say no to supranationality, no to reduced influence, no to lack of democracy, no to forced migration, no to widespread corruption and no to give billions of tax dollars to other relatively prosperous countries in Europe when the needs at home are great. Instead, the British people strongly said yes to self-determination, yes to sovereignty, yes to increased democracy, yes to strengthening the country's borders, yes to increased transparency and real accountability, and yes to laying the foundations for favourable free trade, where more favourable free trade agreements can be concluded bilaterally. Last year, Under also won the presidential candidate in the United States that all the experts predicted would never succeed in doing just that. Like Brexit, this means major changes both in Europe and in world politics, and it also has consequences for the current federalist development of the EU. We already see today that this has led to the excessive and over-bureaucratic European machinery being rocked sharply, and the Eurocrats are talking about constant crises. We see economic crises, migration crises and other forms of crisis in the EU's tracks, where today's Europe is part of the problem rather than the solution. This change and this popular uprising against the European elite is something that we are many European friends who are delighted about. We also see that this lays the foundations for a new development in which we can return to more intergovernmentalism and to a Europe of nations. In addition, this half-year parliamentary elections are held in the Netherlands and presidential elections in France. Whatever the outcome, Madam President, the elections there too will have an impact on the European project and its future, just as Brexit and the new US administration are now doing. The EU which the Swedes said by a narrow margin in 1994 no longer exists. That is why the people need to be consulted again. According to an opinion poll from Inizio recently, the proportion of Swedes who want to see a referendum on Swedish EU membership is also increasing. Four out of ten Swedes now want such a referendum – this despite the fact that the other parties in this House are constantly trying to keep quiet about this issue and are painting doomsday prophecies. The Swedish Democrats support the idea of a referendum and work both here in Stockholm in the Swedish Parliament and in the European Parliament in Brussels so that the Swedish people can also speak on this issue and that we can see e n swexit. We are simply the guarantor that this debate is taking place and is vital. Madam President, I would like Of course we should work together in Europe. Of course, we should cooperate in various areas, such as the environment and law enforcement. But this cooperation should take place intergovernmentally and voluntarily without coercion. We shall not be forced upon various decrees and decrees by non-elected politicians and anonymous bureaucrats and lobbyists far from our country. Brexit shows that another way is possible. It is now time for the Swedish Government to take this seriously and ask the Swedish people what they think about current developments.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-860	Madam President, I would like It is not unknown that the Swedish Democrats want to leave the EU. This is something that is often said, not least in the EU Council. I have to say, however, that you keep reminding us of this. The fact that you also claim to be the only guarantor of Swexit is not likely to be completely unfamiliar to anyone. From the media and other things, we have received very clear signals that the Swedish Democrats are prepared to vote on the draft budget from a party that is very European-friendly, namely the Moderates. I wonder: is it true that you Swedish democrats can consider voting on the Moderates' draft budget despite your totally different views on the European issue? Then I am thinking about the sanctions that the European Union has imposed and implemented in relation to Russia. Are you in favour of these sanctions even though you are against EU membership?
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-863	Madam President, I would like Mr Niemi and I are colleagues in the European Council. It is true that every Friday morning there we try to ensure that the Swedish people retain their self-determination in a variety of policy areas. We are the party that reports the most so-called dissenting opinions of all parties. It is precisely because we believe that the Swedish people should be allowed to say as much as possible about their own everyday lives and their own future. There we know that my party is radically different from the Social Democrats of Pyry Niemis. We do not support the Moderates' budget in all respects, but we support our own budget in the first place. But our primary objective is to remove the present government. And, of course, if we can do so, we are in favour of voting on another draft budget in the second place. The sanctions against Russia are something we support. We have heard this earlier in the debate.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-866	Madam President, I would like All right, then we know that you support the EU sanctions and that you are prepared to support a budget from a party that is basically on the opposite side of you on the European issue. It's quite interesting. Then I think about the next question – Björn Söder tangade this. The budget will also include defence appropriations. Pavel Gamov knows that. You are against NATO – that is a good thing. You have clearly declared that it will not be implemented. But the party you intend to support to vote this government out now has a very strong interest in being in NATO. How do the Swedish Democrats relate to this when the Swedish Democrats intend to vote on the Moderates' draft budget? These are two diametrically opposed views.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-868	Madam President, I would like The aim of the Swedish democrats is to remove the current government. Then we are prepared to support, in the second place, a draft budget from the Alliance or from the Moderates. Of course, we primarily support our own draft budget. But if it does fall, as it unfortunately seems to be, it goes without saying that we are prepared to use all the means to remove the present government, which we consider to be very damaging to our country. We disagree with the Moderates on all matters. We also disagree with other parties on all issues. But there is a greater purpose. It is to ensure that Sweden gets a new government and a new policy where, as we heard earlier, it does not protect all the world's citizens, but where it primarily protects Sweden and the Swedish citizens. I think it was very clear during a previous change of line that the Social Democrats do not have that focus. That is deeply regrettable. For the Swedish Democrats, Sweden and the Swedish citizens come first.
i-9875f2aa2698a66e-870	Madam President, I would like I would like to give you a piece of information in connection with Björn Söder's speech and Russia. Russia has violated Swedish airspace. Russia's ambassador in Sweden has spoken out negatively about Sweden and relations with Sweden. And our Baltic neighbours are constantly exposed to threats from Russia. I am saying this in response to this by waiting for what Russia intends to do. Russia is a threat to Sweden's independence.
