i-708a3df549660ac2-1	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the moderate reservation to be approved. Then I would like to say something briefly about the Swedish National Audit Office. The Swedish National Audit Office is an authority during the Riksdag. Its task is to examine the activities carried out by the State. To be clear: The Swedish National Audit Office examines how the government, the state, uses taxpayers' money. It is therefore important to take the impression of what the Swedish National Audit Office says. In this report, the Swedish National Audit Office makes five specific recommendations to the Government. It is a matter of ensuring that detention is effective for the situation. It is about the need for a more general review of the regulatory framework applied. The aim, as we see it, is to get a workable return, and here we need a tightening up. The national audit is clear here. We Moderates also see a need for improved risk assessments, as does the Swedish National Audit Office. These assessments, carried out by the Finnish Immigration Service, have also been heated, and it is clear that these risk assessments today are too bad because many people deviate and go underground. In five years, it is estimated that nearly 50 000 people will do so. This is where we start talking about shadow society. Finally, we Moderates believe that more detention sites are needed. It is totally unacceptable that people should not be detained because of a lack of space. It is a little strange that the northernmost repository is in Gävle. This creates major problems for northern Sweden. That's why we need at least one new repository there. I find it very remarkable that over the years, the government has not addressed the issue of detention in terms of the need for an increased regulatory framework, improved risk assessments and more places. Some reinforcement has been made, but in all material respects it has been intended to move from temporary places to regular places, i.e. the actual increase is too small to respond to the need. Could this paralysis be due to a lack of agreement within the government? Perhaps we can get an answer from the government parties today.
i-708a3df549660ac2-8	Madam President, I would like We are here to debate and discuss what lessons can be learned from the refugee crisis, as it is called, in 2015 in response to the letter from the Swedish National Audit Office and the Government's response to this letter. First of all, since reservation 1 has already been approved, I would like to ask for reservation 2. In the review report that has come from the Swedish National Audit Office, just as Maria Abrahamsson was just on the subject, a lot of points where one should actually have been able to act in some other way. It is clear that there are, or at least there were, shortcomings in how the government and authorities acted in autumn 2015. For those of us who have been involved in this issue for a long time, this is no news. Should we have discussed refugee policy, asylum policy and migration policy as a whole, there would have been much more to pay attention to, but I am not going to do this here and now, but I am going to focus on the report that has come, on the recommendations that have been made by the National Audit Office and on those areas where we do not think the government is doing enough. We have four separate motions in a succession motion. The first is a capacity-appropriate reception. It is clear that the reception system we have in Sweden cannot receive many. It has become apparent, thankfully, for probably everyone in this House in recent years. It is also clear that we should allow this to take more place in the way we design our migration policy. I thought it was interesting to read the entire review report because it also talks about the refugee situation that prevailed in the early 1990s, when a number of tough decisions were made and, in fact, already realised that there are limitations in what we can do. We should be better prepared. We should be able to put in place various forms of stopping mechanisms earlier if necessary. We should also have a holistic approach when discussing reception. It has, as you know, been lost somewhere on the road since the 90s. A concrete proposal for what could be done to improve opportunities is to ensure that the Migration Agency, which is not only already dealing with forecasts for the future but also actually manages contact with municipalities and manages its own accommodations, is more clearly engaged in a dialogue and has an exchange of information with the Government on how forecasts coincide with actual capacity. Then you can pull the emergency brake much earlier than what happened. Now it was only when we had a situation where people had nowhere to go and we could not even register them when they crossed our borders. It is clear that the information was there but did not reach it, and that cannot be accepted. It has also been clear that the flow of information not only between the Migration Agency and the Government but generally among the various authorities involved in the reception, which in some way have responsibility for different parts, has not worked optimally. Coordinating responsibility has also been unclear. We have a situation where some county boards have kicked off and said that it is a crisis situation right now and are beginning to work on their emergency preparedness system, while others have felt that the situation can continue to be handled in the usual way. There should be a clear order in which a situation that is identified as a crisis situation should be reported upwards and continue upwards until someone says: Okay, now we have this situation under control and then it goes down to the other authorities. Then everyone can be in the same position and there is a clear chain of responsibility. Who has responsibilities, who defines when there is a crisis and how do you ensure that everyone who works at the corresponding level on the same scale actually does so in the same way? There are obvious shortcomings, and there is something that can be taken on board and acted upon. One area that we do not agree with either the Government or the Swedish National Audit Office about, and which will later today be debated and decided on, is what to do about the receipt itself. Later today we will decide, unfortunately, in the Riksdag that the Planning and Construction Act will be changed so that in emergency situations you can build temporary accommodations or other accommodations more quickly in order to suddenly welcome a lot of people who come here. It is a regime that is not sustainable in the long term. It is a system that, in our opinion, will not work well in society or be well received. It is also a costly order. We must, of course, have a crisis preparedness to deal with if one of our neighbours is experiencing a sudden crisis and we have a large, sudden influx of people who need somewhere to go. Which properties can be used in what way? Who's ready to be there with extra rooms? If we are going to have accommodation to handle such a situation, they should be on their own all the time and perhaps be able to be used in a different way. We have a motion that refers to precisely that, namely that the Migration Agency should be responsible for all accommodation in its own right, and there should be a contingency plan for how they should be used and how we should take that responsibility. We do not want to see any changes in legislation on how to quickly build new properties or housing. The last thing we insist on in our follow-up motion is about how people who come to our border should be handled, if there are many at the same time. Maria Abrahamsson was in on this with custody. The review report mentions detention when many people came here. They did not have time to be registered and accommodated in premises for several days while waiting to enter the system at all. It updated the legislation we have in relation to detention, how long you can keep people in detention and under what circumstances. The legislation certainly needs to be reviewed as far as detention is concerned. For example, we believe that the possibility of using detention should be used to a greater extent in other areas. But when it comes to just coming to Sweden, we are pushing the issue of transit zones at our borders. No person without valid documents, both identity documents and documents proving that they already have a guaranteed right of residence in the country, should be able to enter the country without having crossed a transit zone, registered there and had a case opened, so that you get equivalent documents. You get some kind of identity document, some kind of right of residence. It may be like an asylum seeker or something else. It should not be possible to enter Sweden without valid documents. If so, you should be in a transit zone. And it shouldn't have to be counted as being taken into custody.
i-W5PeszFM6896wGTwfoRMrC	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the government's letter on the Swedish National Audit Office's report Lessons from the refugee situation in autumn 2015 – preparedness and management. I would like to start by calling for approval of the proposal contained in the Social Security Committee's report 8 and rejection of the reservations. The Swedish National Audit Office's overall assessment is that the Government and the Government Office followed prepared procedures and that they applied a trained organisation for crisis management. At the same time, the overall assessment is that in some respects, as the previous speaker has mentioned, there was a lack of preparedness. The Migration Agency and other authorities were not trained to interact with each other in such a large and complex event as the refugee situation. For example, they had not practiced between 2011 and 2014. This is highlighted by the Swedish National Audit Office in its report. However, the assessment was that the Migration Agency and the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness were mainly able to complete their core tasks during the refugee situation. Society was largely able to receive and arrange shelters for the large number of asylum seekers. The difficulties were not the shortcomings of individual authorities but were mainly due to regulatory barriers, shortcomings in society's overall capacity and lack of cooperation. The Finnish Immigration Service had developed its preparedness for a large number of asylum seekers for several years, but the work had largely taken place within its own organisation. A central and critical issue in terms of preparedness for the reception of asylum seekers was housing capacity, as the previous speaker has also mentioned. In October 2015, the Migration Agency raised its ambition to 16,000 asylum seekers a week – at present it has almost forgotten that it looked like that in the autumn two years ago, although it is so close. However, the Swedish National Audit Office estimates that the plan did not contain measures that could be expected to lead to such high living capacity in such a short time in reality. This was due not least to the fact that housing capacity was limited by factors outside the control of the Finnish Immigration Service, such as procurement regulations. Like evaluations of other crises and extraordinary situations, it appears that authorities tend to focus on their own core mission in a crisis situation, often at the expense of interaction with other actors. Madam President, I would like The Finnish Immigration Service gave priority in autumn 2015 to register and arrange accommodation for asylum seekers. At the same time, other tasks were prioritised. This increased workload and length of stay at the later stages of the asylum examination. We can see that now, too. As a result, a large number of people are staying in the country under partly unclear legal conditions. The Swedish National Audit Office agrees with the Swedish Migration Board's assessment that access to housing constituted a real capacity ceiling for society's ability to receive a large number of asylum seekers on a sustainable basis. Yet the Swedish society as a whole managed to arrange a roof over the head for 163 000 people in one year. Internal border controls were introduced in November 2015 and the number of asylum seekers decreased gradually. The Swedish National Audit Office estimates that the continued influx of asylum seekers at the same levels as at the turn of the month between October and November would have meant that the authorities and municipalities would not have been able to comply with all the existing regulations aimed at safeguarding life, health and legal certainty. The extensive efforts of the Finnish Immigration Service and municipalities were a prerequisite for this success. And the Finnish Immigration Service's decision on densification and reduced quality of accommodation was reasonable in that situation. Although the previous government introduced some reliefs in the planning and construction regulation, these did not enter into force at the most acute stage but came later. So it did not help in that particular situation. The Government commissioned the Procurement Authority to investigate how the procurement rules would be handled in an urgent situation. However, it was only on 1 November 2015 that the Procurement Authority was able to explain how the rules could be applied. And it was too late, given the situation. The resources were also insufficient for the authorities to take individual detention decisions within the statutory six-hour period, as has been mentioned by previous speakers. In the temporarily established waiting room at Malmömässan there was a situation that could be perceived by asylum seekers as a detention. Unclear division of responsibilities between the Migration Agency and the police for control of entry and exit from Malmömässan may also have contributed to this. Malmömässan was not intended for housing, but in the absence of alternative accommodation migrants came to stay there longer than planned. However, there were no better accommodation options. There were simply no alternatives. Madam President, I would like The migration situation in autumn 2015 meant that Sweden faced major challenges and pressures in many respects were unique. There are great demands when different activities need to be adapted very quickly. Cooperation, coordination and leadership for a common direction will be essential in such a situation. It is positive that the Government intends to take into account the Swedish National Audit Office's assessments and work further on the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations for dealing with issues of responsibility and analysis. In the third phase To receive people on the run – Sweden in autumn 2015 is mapped out the course of events and based on this, the responsibility and preparedness of the government, state authorities, municipalities and county councils for the situation as well as their and civil society's management of the situation are analysed. It is being prepared within the Government Office. We will of course follow the work of the government to learn from the refugee situation in 2015. D is an important part of the investigation. We note that, for example, the rules on the review of procurement decisions were amended in 2016, and therefore the legal situation has been clarified. Changes in the Planning and Construction Act should also be able to simplify management at an emergency stage. We believe that the government is taking the necessary steps to meet the criticism that comes from the Swedish National Audit Office. Therefore, we feel that there is no reason to make an announcement in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment.
i-708a3df549660ac2-39	Madam President, I would like The focus of this debate is, of course, the Social Security Committee's report No 9 Age-differentiated maintenance support and an increase in the basic deduction for dependent parents. In the proposal on which the report is based, the Government proposes, among other things, an increase in both the maintenance allowance for children over 15 years of age and the basic allowance for the debtor. These are proposals announced by the government already in the 2017 budget bill. Since the Christian Democrats opposed the changes both in last year's shadow budget and in this year's budget, it is natural that we should also follow up on this position now that the government is making strong proposals. We therefore wish to reject both the proposed increase in child maintenance allowance for children over 15 years of age and the proposed increase in the basic allowance for the debtor. I would therefore like to begin by calling for the reservations contained in the report to be approved. Madam President, I would like I will take the whole proposal for proposals and start with the proposed increase in maintenance aid. The main reasons why we want to reject this are two. The most important thing is that we in the Christian Democrats see that there is a better way than the way the government chooses to strengthen the finances of families with children, especially in order to strengthen the economy of those parents and families who are in a vulnerable situation. We have several proposals for this in our shadow budget. I'll mention the two most important ones. In our budget we have a proposal for a job tax deduction for parents who would give all working parents – living together or single – a tax reduction of SEK 500 per month. We have also proposed a substantial increase in the child-related part of the housing allowance. The increase will certainly benefit families with the smallest financial margins. We have simply chosen a different path. A further reason is that there is a risk that the increase in maintenance support may lead to a reduction in incentives for parents to agree between themselves on maintenance. The maintenance allowance is not, of course, a contribution in the usual order, but is intended as temporary support where the state takes over a parent's responsibility after a separation if the couple do not agree on the common livelihood of the children themselves. However, each such case must be seen as a failure, and the aim should be for the parents themselves to take the financial responsibility for their children. Therefore, maintenance aid should also be designed accordingly. We believe that this is a step in the wrong direction. However, it should be said in this context that several changes have been made for the better in recent years. For example, within the framework of the Alliance Government, we contributed to the fact that the cooperation talks that municipalities are obliged to provide now also address economic issues relating to the child. However, we also welcome the fact that the current government has introduced a rule whereby maintenance aid, as a general rule, is now not paid if the debtor proves that he is repaying the correct amount to the Social Insurance Fund for six consecutive months. We also welcome the fact that Försäkringskassan has been given an extended mandate to inform parents on matters related to maintenance support and maintenance. Nevertheless, the Christian Democrats believe that the increase in maintenance support that was carried out just two years ago, along with the current increase and the additional increase announced in the 2018 budget bill, risks leading to fewer parents trying to agree on a solution that is right for them. In such cases, it is unfortunate because it is likely to make cooperation between parents more difficult. However, it is also unfortunate from the conclusion drawn, among other things, from the so-called 2011 "Särvillare" investigation, that, on average, children of divorced parents would be much better off if the parents voluntarily agreed on maintenance support rather than using the state maintenance allowance. Madam President, I would like I shall then turn to the proposal to increase the basic deduction for the debtors. It is probably partly to be seen as a result of the proposed increases in maintenance aid, and since we say no to these, it is natural that we should also say no to the increase in the basic deduction. In addition, however, it should also be pointed out that the proposed increase in the basic deduction further weakens the principle of parental responsibility for the livelihood of their children. The Christian Democrats – just as the Swedish Bar Association and the Administrative Court of Malmö express in their referrals – believe that the proposal is less consistent with the good legislative changes that have recently been implemented with the aim of primarily regulating maintenance directly between parents. Finally, the proposal also contains a proposal to increase the income limit for children without affecting the amount of maintenance allowance. It is a change that the Christian Democrats welcome. The fact that young people are given the opportunity to do more summer jobs and extra work is only positive. I would therefore like to support the reservation contained in the report.
i-708a3df549660ac2-60	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the SfU9 report of the Social Security Committee on the amendment of the Social Security Code as regards age-differentiated maintenance support and increased basic deductions for parents liable for benefits. I therefore propose that the reservation be rejected. Maintenance allowance is a support for the child. The allowance is advanced from the public to the parent with whom the child resides if, for various reasons, the dependent parent is unable to fulfil his or her maintenance obligation. The maintenance allowance guarantees that children with parents who do not live together receive a certain allowance for their livelihood and compensates the child for a lack of maintenance. We increased maintenance support by SEK 300 per month by 2015 at the latest so that it is now at SEK 1,573 per month. The basis is that the parents themselves will agree to pay maintenance for their children. The maintenance allowance is for those cases where the debtor parent does not pay maintenance or pays an amount less than SEK 1573. Madam President, I would like I think we all know that children's needs vary according to age. That is also why we propose that maintenance support be differentiated and divided into two age groups, 0 – 14 years and 15 years and older. The proposal is to increase maintenance support by SEK 150 per month to SEK 1,723 for those aged 15 and over. Differentiating maintenance support has several advantages. On the one hand, it makes it clear that children's needs are different and, on the other, it better meets the actual costs for children of different ages. The proposal also improves for economically vulnerable children as vulnerability depends on the size of the household's responsibilities for subsistence. At the same time, in order to ensure that the increase in maintenance aid does not result in an excessive amount of payment for the dependent parent, an increase in the basic deduction is proposed. Despite the increase in maintenance aid in 2015, the basic deduction has not been increased since 2006. Several studies have shown that dependent parents are a financially vulnerable group. Many of the parents liable for benefits live in scarce conditions and fail to meet their payment obligations. An increase in the basic deduction would therefore have the effect of reducing debt and improving the financial situation of parents with the lowest incomes. The proposal is therefore that the basic deduction should be increased from SEK 100 000 to SEK 120 000. At the same time, we are also proposing an increase in the amount of children's income that does not affect the amount of maintenance aid. The amount is now 48 000 SEK per year and has not changed since 1997. The proposal is to increase it to SEK 60 000 per year. We want to do this in order to encourage young people to gain experience in the labour market by working in summer and having some work alongside their studies without affecting maintenance support until they exceed the amount of SEK 60 000.
i-708a3df549660ac2-68	Madam President, I would like The current system of maintenance and maintenance support is currently not working well enough. The changes that took place not long ago and the changes that are now being proposed by the government are not enough. That is why we in the Moderates want to see a system that requires parents to take a clearer personal responsibility for their children's finances. This would benefit all those involved, both parents and children. Above all, however, what has been said would benefit children, which is important to emphasise. Today's model means that the maintenance of children with separated parents does not correspond sufficiently to the amounts to which children are entitled if the rules on maintenance were complied with. Instead, the maximum amount of maintenance aid has become perceived as the norm for maintenance, which was not the intention from the outset. As a result, as many as four out of ten children do not receive the maintenance allowance to which they are entitled if the maintenance rules are complied with. This means that the children who are in the most vulnerable financial situations would have been entitled to SEK 1 000 more a month if proper maintenance had been paid. Madam President, I would like With the government's proposed changes, support for the most vulnerable children can increase, which is of course positive. We are therefore at this stage behind the government's proposal in the bill. But that is not enough, because the fundamental problem of the design of the system remains. The changes proposed by the government do nothing about the problem of parents who do not take full financial responsibility. Two different models create financial incentives for parents to choose one way or the other with many times completely different, often negative, consequences for children's financial situation. The current regulatory system is also at risk of conflict, as parents are expected to take responsibility for maintenance themselves, something that can be difficult for parents who have just undergone what can often be a long and exhausting separation. This very risk of conflict is something that several of the country's women's shelters have also warned against. Therefore, in order to reduce the risk of conflict between separated parents and to improve the financial situation of vulnerable children, the Moderates propose, in their own motion, that an investigation be set up in order to produce a proposal replacing the current system with a model whereby more parents pay maintenance corresponding to their own standard of living or taxed income. Of course, it is desirable for parents themselves to agree on the amount of maintenance. In the event that they cannot do so, we want to see a more objective and predictable calculation of the amount of maintenance, based on a certain pre-determined percentage of the absent parent's income going to the child. The Social Insurance Agency would then be given the task of administering this new maintenance, calculating the amount of maintenance, paying it out to the resident parent and demanding the corresponding amount from the absent parent. A guaranteed minimum level should, of course, continue to apply and be abolished in cases where parents are completely without income or have very low incomes. This model would reduce the risk of financial conflicts between parents, benefit children, increase the predictability of the system and increase incentives for alternate housing. Not insignificant gains in gender equality would also result from such a system.
i-708a3df549660ac2-77	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that, in this situation, we in the Swedish Democrats are in favour of proposal 216 on age-differentiated maintenance support and increased basic deductions for the beneficiaries. I support the Social Security Committee's proposal in report No 9. Of course, I also agree with what previous speakers have said here today. The starting point must, of course, be that parents assume their responsibilities and pay the maintenance allowance without the State and Försäkringskassan having to go in as an intermediary and pay maintenance support. More needs to be done here, as previous speakers have also said, in order to increase the responsibility of parents. Of course, the best thing would be for parents to agree on maintenance so that the state does not have to go in with maintenance support at all. At the same time, the best interests of children must be the starting point. The child or children in question should not get caught and suffer as a result of the fact that the economy is sometimes insufficient for the person liable for the benefit or that the parent liable for the benefit simply refuses to pay. On this basis, maintenance support is important, and it is good that it exists. It is good that, with an increased contribution to those over 15 years of age, it is now becoming more adapted to the needs that exist and the increased needs that may arise with an increase in age. Like the committee, we are also in favour of the government's proposal to increase the reserve amount for young people's own income before the maintenance allowance is reduced, that is to say, what young people themselves earn in wages without affecting the level of maintenance aid. Like the committee, we also note that the proposal is only an adaptation to the price and cost trend that has taken place since maintenance aid was introduced in 1997. Of course, maintenance aid must not be an obstacle to participation in the labour market under the same conditions as young people without maintenance support. It is of great importance for young people to be able to increase their working hours without affecting this maintenance support. During the general period of exercise, we have also submitted a motion to review how this system can be designed so that maintenance support can be reviewed annually, how necessary increases can be made and how it can also be linked to actual inflation and follow price developments so that there are no backlogs such as the fact that some updates have not been made since 1997. This proposal will be discussed in the Social Security Committee later in the autumn. Against this background, we have written a special opinion on this report, although we currently support the proposal and the proposal contained in the report.
i-708a3df549660ac2-84	Madam President, I would like Today we are dealing with a matter which, in fact, I and the Center Party consider to be quite good. And when I say it's pretty good, I mean it's good when you propose more money to the resident parent, as it's called. This is good. On the other hand, it becomes very complicated, and there is a great risk that the money that is going to go to the child at the home parent's house will actually not be available because of the complexity of the proposal. The Government proposal shows that some consultation bodies also have views and points to some difficulties in the matter. The first problem is that the regulation that came on 1 April last year, which means that parents themselves will regulate maintenance support among themselves, does not work. The second point is that the income that forms the basis for the decision to be made when paying the money should be collected from a tax opportunity almost two years ago. It's a backlog. The third problem is that this backlog actually affects both the resident parent, who misses money, and the debtor, who is without money when you have to pay too much. This is a problem. As far back as June 2011, Helena Bonnier referred to, the inquiry into the specific situation of the disabled left a report with a proposal on how to resolve these problems in civil matters between parents, which was very important. It was then clear that support was needed in order to be able to discuss these economic practices in the event of separation. We all know that the debate on money is not at all easy in the event of separation. It can cause bigger problems than the separation is intended to do. This is something that is not at all reflected in today's report. So there is no argument in this proposal for talk support when discussing the money. Following the decision in April 2016 to regulate maintenance support itself, Försäkringskassan sent out letters to parents a few months ago. It said that the parents would handle this themselves if the liable parent had been able to pay the money in due time to the Social Insurance Office for six months. This meant that parents who had no contact for years would suddenly contact each other. That caused a lot of trouble for some parents. There were a lot of people who contacted me, and I know that the Minister for Social Security was also courted by parents who thought this was a problem. Now it is meant to work in this context too, which is incredible. To the question I put to the Minister for this reason, she replied that the purpose of the new proposal was not, of course, to worry parents. Of course, the minister would follow up on how these contacts between parents would be conducted and how to get their compensation at the right time. I very much hope that the Minister will do so, not least in view of the proposal that is now before us. The fact that the income derives from the two-year tax period is a problem of backwardness. It's about getting too much and getting too little money. In this context, we also need to point out that it would be much better if it were the exact sum at that time and if we were quicker in changing the payment that would be made. I hope the government will take this into account. This would reduce the administration at Försäkringskassan, on the point of reference. That is something that I and the Center Party are questioning, because it seems that there would be even greater problems with getting their money at the right time, and then the Social Insurance Agency will have even more to do with figuring this out. Madam President, I would like I would like to point out that, of course, the Center Party believes that it is good and extremely important to have more money for the children they are caring for, as well as to increase the level of children's income. These are urgent matters, and we support the proposal. Of course, we feel that much more is needed. That is why we will come back to the issue when our exercise is discussed later in the autumn, because there we have much better proposals to make.
i-708a3df549660ac2-95	Madam President, I would like The other week we had the first night of frost at home in the highlands of Småland. As a result, I began to search my wardrobes for winter clothes, and I don't think I was the only one. I think there were many of us who were deep-doughing in the different closets and drawers. When the teenage son came home and tried his clothes, I was not surprised when neither the jacket nor the winter boots were fit anymore. Children grow fast and need new clothes often. The bigger they get, the faster it goes and the more expensive it gets, I can promise you. If you are single with children, this is a huge cost that digs a big hole in the household budget. Most children have two parents, and both parents are responsible for providing for the child. In the best of worlds, parents can get along on their own. They can divide the cost of their children together. Unfortunately, it does not always work that way. Happy divorces sound good, but they're rare. Especially in the early days after the separation, communication is often difficult. Separation is tearing down, and the financial issues are very difficult to sort out. You just can't communicate. If one parent does not pay maintenance for his or her child and completes this, it is possible to receive maintenance support from Försäkringskassan. The amount of the maintenance allowance is often determined by what the parent liable for maintenance pays to the other parent. It wasn't supposed to be like that in the first place, but that's the way it has been. Up to now, maintenance support has been the same regardless of the age of the children. But as I said earlier, I know from my own experience that the children get more expensive the older they get. It's not just about clothes and shoes, but also about food, leisure activities and other things that cost more. This makes us from the Liberals think that age differentiation of maintenance support is good. We agree with the proposal. I therefore support the proposal in the report.
i-708a3df549660ac2-98	Madam President, I would like We stand here today and are going to discuss the proposal that the government has put forward to introduce a special authorisation for the government to be able to apply in situations like the one we saw in 2015, when a large number of asylum seekers applied to Sweden and there was a great need for temporary housing for these people. The proposal is aimed at enabling temporary housing to be set up in premises, right-of-occupancy associations, rental apartments and new dwellings. At the same time, a number of provisions of the Planning and Construction Act can be circumvented. Public interests, appeal possibilities, environmental requirements and fire safety can be circumvented, and the building can be put into service before the building committee has given its final opinion. In this way, public interests are being circumvented and municipal self-determination is also being overtaken. My idea is whether it is the government's position that refugee policy should take precedence over the interests of the public and the municipalities at all times. It is mentioned that, in special exceptional cases, it should be possible to circumvent the interests of the public. But if you look at the proposal, you can see at what levels the government says it will be relevant. For example, more than 40 000 asylum seekers are mentioned in one year. If we go back historically we see that it is very many years that we have been above that level or in very close proximity to it. This means that this proposal can very much be a permanent grant by the government to circumvent the public interest. This would allow new buildings to be added in connection with your own home without you being able to influence it yourself. At the same time, it would apply for a very long time. It is said that the authorisation will be valid for three years. However, authorisation can always be extended. It can continue for a very long time. These are, of course, serious proposals from the government that really need to be considered for a long time before you go in and grant. This is also what the Swedish Democrats are very concerned about. In connection with the extreme wave of asylum in 2015, we saw that society was faced with very tough decisions. We also saw that the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency noted that important societal functions were not able to cope with these efforts. The Government also considered in its own letters that the situation posed a serious threat to public order and internal security in Sweden. Despite the experience gained from the refugee wave and the asylum wave in 2015, it is still prepared to take action today to enable a new wave of asylum to be sent to Sweden. We from the Swedish Democrats are very surprised that we have not learned more from what we have learned from, especially after the high number of asylum seekers in 2015 to Sweden. At the same time, we see that 65 1⁄2 million people who are both internally and externally displaced are around the world. This is where we from the Swedish Democrats believe that the government should put its focus on creating better conditions for the people who live on the run so that they get better and more decent conditions during the time they are on the run. We want the government to do this instead of helping a few people in Sweden at an extremely high cost with extreme consequences. The proposals on the table today involve circumventing public interests and making it difficult for municipalities to operate a public service in a good, correct and long-term manner. There are now alternatives to solving the problem. We believe from the Swedish Democrats that border controls should primarily be an alternative if a new wave of asylum becomes a reality in Sweden in order to gain control of the situation in Sweden. It is not possible to produce proposals that are currently on the government table, which make exceptions to the public's ability to influence their environment and create the conditions for a new wave of asylum to Sweden. Madam President, I would like With those words, I am in favour of the Swedish Democrats' reservation.
i-708a3df549660ac2-111	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the CIVIL Committee's report.3 We ocial democrats support the Government's proposal to amend the Planning and Construction Act. The amendment introduces the possibility for the government to introduce derogations from certain provisions of the Plan and the Construction Act in the event of an increased influx of asylum seekers. If the influx of asylum seekers has been or is expected to be particularly large, and if it is necessary for housing for asylum seekers to be arranged quickly, the Government shall be authorised to provide for exemptions from certain requirements and other provisions of the Planning and Construction Act. Such derogations shall be limited to: The requirement to take public interests into account when locating buildings 中 requirements for plots, public spaces and areas for non-building installations
i-708a3df549660ac2-115	The exceptions shall be proportionate to the interests which the provisions intend to protect and promote. I would like to emphasise that they should be proportionate. In addition, they shall be limited to measures relating to the modification of construction works, the construction of simple construction works and measures lasting no more than three years. In 2015, the number of asylum seekers who applied to Sweden was record high, and the challenges for the Swedish asylum system were at times very large. Planning and construction are complex processes where the purpose of the regulations is, among other things, to promote good social living conditions and a good and sustainable living environment that should be in place for a long time. This is also a reason why planning and construction legislation imposes high demands on what is being built. However, the complexity of the process and the high demands mean that it can take a long time from idea to finished building. That is something we often discuss in this House. If a large number of asylum seekers come to Sweden, it can therefore be difficult to deal with the situation and in a short time organise accommodation within the framework of the regular rules of the Plan and Construction Act. The autumn 2015 experience shows that society was not equipped enough to cope with such a situation. It is therefore reasonable for regulation to be adapted so that society can better meet the challenges posed by a similar situation in the future. As I mentioned earlier, the authorisation provided for in the proposal is to be used when the influx of asylum seekers has been or is expected to be particularly extensive and if it is necessary for housing for asylum seekers to be so nabbed. This means that the number of asylum seekers differs significantly from normal levels. To refer, as the Swedish Democrats, to levels that have been and say that we have exceeded the levels all the time is to resound the proposal, and then the proposal has not been read. Of course, what constitutes normal levels will vary over time, but some management should be taken from statistics showing developments in the previous decades. According to the government, the statistics show that the number of asylum seekers in Sweden over the past 25 years has been from a few thousand per year in the mid-1990s up to a maximum of 40 000 in the 2000s. On the other hand, there are two clear peaks in 1992 when we had over 80 000 asylum seekers, and in 2015 when we had over 160 000 asylum seekers. Only in a situation where accommodation is not available or can be adequately organised under the ordinary rules should the authorisation apply. In addition, the requirement of proportionality is that derogations should not go beyond what is appropriate in relation to the purpose. This means that the combined benefits of exemptions must consider the disadvantages that may arise in relation to the conflicting interests that the exempted rules aim to protect and promote. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, there is one party in committee that does not support this. It's the Swedish Democrats. The reservation is concerned that the proposal would create the conditions for a new wave of asylum seekers to Sweden. If you believe that a change in the Planning and Construction Act is the reason why people are seeking asylum in Sweden, then you have a distorted picture of what is the reason why people are fleeing their homes. Rather, it is war, natural disasters, and famine that cause people to flee to other safer parts of the world. In order to prevent a situation similar to that of 2015 arising again in Sweden, it is important to work to ensure that the whole of the EU accepts its responsibilities when a large number of refugees seek security here than to oppose a change in the Planning and Construction Act. We ocial democrats think it is important that we learn from how it worked in 2015 and create better conditions for the country to deal with a similar situation. It is to take responsibility for Sweden!
i-708a3df549660ac2-126	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that it is particularly good to see you, Ewa, in this Chamber today. We were former committee colleagues, and I would like to congratulate Mrs Thalén Finné on the role she has been given as the first vice-president of the Swedish Parliament. It's extra fun! I am proud to be Swedish and proud to live in a country where so many people with open arms and toil and work 24 hours a day have received the people who in recent years have chosen to seek shelter in Sweden. In 2015, Sweden showed that we are a humane country – a country where new people are welcome. Sweden was subjected to trials, but it was not a lack of humanity and love we experienced. There was a shortage of systems. The fortress of the bureaucracy, Sweden, began to shake. A temporary law became Swedish law. It is a law that, as the name also announces, is just temporary. Some parties want it to be permanent, but for the Green Party it is clear: The temporary law is temporary. It is clear to me that if it is to be as temporary as possible, I must ensure that the systems are strengthened. Today's debate is that the Planning and Construction Act introduces a standard authorisation for the government. If the influx of asylum seekers has been or can be expected to be particularly large, and if necessary for the rapid provision of accommodation for asylum seekers, the Government shall be authorised to provide for exceptions to certain requirements and provisions of the Planning and Construction Act. It shall be limited to measures relating to changes to existing construction works or to new constructions of simple construction works and measures lasting no more than three years. In order to strengthen the systems and increase the capacity of Swedish reception, I welcome this proposal from the government and I call for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved. Madam President, I would like Ceiling over your head is a human right. In 2015, the challenges for the Swedish asylum system were large, sometimes very large. Sometimes we could not live up to this right. That is why this legislative change is needed. In order to increase the capacity of the Swedish asylum system and to ensure that more people can come here and have a roof over their heads, Sweden also needs to facilitate the possibility of building temporary housing. Organising temporary housing through changes to existing buildings or construction of simple buildings that may be used for a maximum of three years is nothing that will give a new wave of asylum to Sweden. It is something necessary to help people in need. Madam President, I would like In addition, it can facilitate integration by creating housing where the jobs are located. Historically, successful integration requires housing close to jobs. Of those who came to Sweden in the early 1990s and who were offered accommodation in places such as Gislaved, Gnosjö and Värnamo in my home county, it was as much as 90 per cent that a few years after arrival in Sweden could get jobs thanks to the many jobs. The figure was about 30 per cent among those who were forced to apply for housing in Malmö. Today, the situation is different: it is in the large Swedish cities that the jobs exist, and there is also the housing shortage at its greatest. It is therefore necessary to create housing there too. The autumn 2015 experience shows that several parts of society were not equipped enough to cope with such a situation. The government therefore believes that it is reasonable to adapt conditions so that society can meet the challenges that arise when a similar situation arises. And it's not a question of whether or not it's a question of when. It is not we who determine and control the waves of asylum; it is the situation in the world around us. We need to resolve the housing situation of those fleeing war and oppression. Sweden needs to take its responsibility and become home to many more. We, if anything, have the conditions.
i-708a3df549660ac2-137	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report 5 Environmental assessments. The proposal on which the report is based contains proposals relating, in particular, to environmental impact assessments. A new sixth chapter is proposed for the environmental code. Madam President, I would like Next year, the environmental code will be 20 years old. Although it entered into force on 1 January 1999, the decision was taken in 1998 after a long period of investigation and preparation. It was an important change in Swedish environmental legislation. Of course, legislation already existed before the Environmental Code came, but the purpose of the Environmental Code was to bring together the regulatory framework that existed in a horizontal legislation and to make the law and its application more uniform across different sectors. The values of nature's protection value and of man's responsibility to manage nature as expressed in the law are important fundamentals for Swedish environmental policy – and for Swedish industrial policy. It is not possible today to separate industrial policy from environmental and sustainability issues. It is not possible to talk about and conduct a policy in terms of green jobs and sectors as separate small branches. The sustainability agenda must cover all businesses and all jobs. There it is extremely important to have legislation that is sharp and applied with both legal certainty and responsiveness to the specific circumstances of different sectors. The environmental legislation we have in Sweden has helped to create successful companies that are forerunners in the international market. It is an important perspective to carry with it in the debate. In addition to the successes and innovations that can be spurred by well-developed environmental legislation, such legislation can also have a major impact on Sweden as a political example for other countries and regions. It is a role that Sweden has played and that we continue to play. But, Madam President, it also requires, of course, that the legislation works as it is intended: that it is uniform and predictable, that processing does not take too long and that the rules are not applied unnecessarily. There is reason to improve this in a number of respects. The long processing times are an issue which has been the subject of debate in this House on a number of occasions in the past, and a number of initiatives have been taken by the government. In terms of predictability and consistency, steps are also taken in the bill to reduce unnecessary regulatory application. The proposal certainly includes adaptations to changes in EU directives, but the proposals also bring improvements and a more integrated regulatory framework. First of all, it clarifies what an environmental impact assessment should contain. It is requested and important for the application to be more uniform and predictable for those operators who need to carry out an environmental impact assessment. The law also makes a distinction between strategic and specific environmental assessments, where strategic environmental assessments deal with those carried out in connection with plans and programmes, while the specific ones relate to permit assessments for activities. They have different characteristics, and it is therefore reasonable for them to be kept separate. It becomes clearer that an environmental impact assessment should only be carried out when it is environmentally justified. Only when it can be assumed that a plan or permit will have significant environmental impacts shall an environmental impact assessment be carried out. Otherwise, it is proposed that a small environmental impact assessment should be made as a basis for decision. Madam President, I would like All proposals in the proposal are supported in the report. Yet we Social Democrats, together with the Green Party and the Left Party, have felt obliged to reserve us. It is a more fundamental question: how we view the possibility and the responsibility to take precedence. The bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats have agreed on two announcements that the government should not take the initiative to go beyond the demands of EU law on us. It is not that there are currently plans on the part of the government to do so, as the report shows. Therefore, the announcements must be interpreted as a principled attitude of the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats. That's where we split up. We believe that it is important to be able to take precedence when justified. What should be asked about the announcements by the Alliance and SD is: Where would Sweden have been today if this attitude had been the prevailing in recent decades? I am quite sure that at least several of the alliance parties believe that Sweden has previously made use of it by going ahead and that it has been important. Why shouldn't it be in the future? With that, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal and ask for the approval of reservation 2.
i-708a3df549660ac2-150	Madam President, I would like We are here today to debate environmental assessments. It is the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report No 5. It contains proposals aimed at implementing the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment. As the previous speaker explained, it is a bill proposing that we should have a new chapter in the environmental code. Then, of course, there will be consequential changes to it. It will be a new structure and new words. It will simply be a piece of legislation that is up to date in relation to what it looks like today. Today there are two directives on environmental assessments. One is – I apologise for the fact that there are a lot of abbreviations here – the SEA Directive, which dates from 2001 and deals with the environmental impact of plans. The second is the EIA Directive. After that, there have been some follow-up laws, follow-up directives and other things. In addition, there are provisions on public participation in plans and programmes. The Espoo Convention exists – it deals with how this is developed in cross-border contexts. All this will now be baked together so that there will be legislation and a new chapter in the environmental code. It's a very good thing. We are getting legislation that is relevant to what it looks like today. The environmental code, as we have just heard, is a very important piece of legislation that has served us well and which makes Sweden have great competitiveness. It provides predictability when we get new rules and everything collected in one place for the companies and projects that are going on. There will be clarity. We see that we take the environment seriously. We also get legislation that sees what this should contain. If it has a significant environmental impact, it should be a major environmental impact assessment. But there is also the possibility, if it does not meet those criteria, of making a smaller, a small one. I think the proposal in the report is a good one. It'll be good for everyone who builds. It'll be good for the environment. Nevertheless, as Sara Karlsson said, some fundamental differences have emerged in our committee. The alliance parties, together with SD, have presented announcements. It is about Sweden not being able to take the lead. The government should not be able to show that it thinks this is important. This is true despite the fact that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has investigated the question of how to deal with environmental impact assessments and ‐ descriptions when it is the environmental impact of an activity that can govern. It has been seen here that there may be a need to be able to make national legislation. It is not said that it should be done, but there may be a possibility. An additional directive has also been given to investigate further how it could be. Nevertheless, the alliance parties, together with the Swedish Democrats, do not want this. We also have another reservation, but I will not support it. We see that there is a dividing line here in Swedish politics. There are those who want to go ahead in ways that have served Sweden well and that have made us have great competitiveness. It has also meant that we have companies that are leaders in this regard. Yet it is not trusted that they can take that responsibility. Madam President, I would like I would like to express my support for reservation No 2.
i-708a3df549660ac2-155	Madam President, I would like We are generally in agreement in this House on the changes to the environmental code proposed by the government, and that is a good thing. We in the Left Party think it is good to have the clarity that we now get in the environmental code with these amendments. We get a better definition of what environmental assessments really are. It is about when and how an environmental impact assessment should be carried out and what it should contain. But there are a number of things in the proposal that could have been better. There are also some elements, following the discussion of the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, which lead the committee to present a proposal to the House which actually means a deterioration of the government's proposal. The previous speakers were on that very point. The bourgeois parties, together with the Swedish Democrats, have included two announcements in the report. It is about Sweden, as I understand it, being able under no circumstances to go beyond the EU's minimum standards in this area. It is not really specified what it is about, but it is more a principled approach, as I understand it, from the bourgeois and SD: Sweden should go to the minimum level of the European Union. I think this is a clear departure from what has hitherto been Swedish environmental policy, namely that we should be a driving force internationally. We shall go beyond what the European Union, the United Nations and other international bodies say, because we know that it is best for the environment. It is also a very good way of influencing other countries to take the lead in the environmental field. It will be very interesting to listen to the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats. I very much hope that you can justify why Sweden should under no circumstances be able to go beyond the minimum requirements of the European Union. In this respect, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2. There, the Left Party, the Social Democrats and the Green Party say that we should be able to do this if there are such needs. Madam President, I would like There is another part of the proposal that I consider to be a missed opportunity. In the proposal, the Government states that the Swedish Armed Forces and civil protection should be exempt from requirements for strategic environmental assessments and requirements for studies of their environmental impact. I think it is unfortunate, in particular that the Swedish Armed Forces should be exempted from these perfectly reasonable environmental requirements that all other activities must comply with in Sweden. The defence is a very large environmental influencer in Sweden. I would say that it is on an industrial scale. It is very important that the defence takes the same environmental considerations and responsibilities as all other activities. I think it is perfectly reasonable that we should therefore demand that the Swedish Armed Forces present the same kind of environmental plans and studies as other activities. We also know that sometimes things can go really wrong when too few people have insight and too few people know what the Swedish Armed Forces are doing. I am thinking, for example, of the scandals of the chemical PFOS, which the Swedish Armed Forces' fleets have used to a large extent for many years in fire-extinguishing foams. Now these scandals have been revealed when the quality of water has been measured, for example, in the area in Kallinge, Blekinge, Tullinge south of Stockholm and in Uppsala. The water contains too high amounts of the hazardous chemical PFOS, which is currently banned, and now we need to spend large amounts of money on cleaning and filtering the water. The inhabitants of these areas near flight fleets are afraid that their children will be affected, as this very dangerous chemical can lead to nerve damage, cancer and so on. I think this may have to do with the fact that we simply have too little insight into the Swedish Armed Forces' activities. The same demands must therefore be placed on the defence as on all other activities. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to raise another important issue which I consider to be a missed opportunity from the government. In the preliminary work on this amendment, a memorandum was produced, which is also called Environmental Assessments. The memorandum suggested that environmental organisations' opportunities for involvement in these activities should be strengthened and that environmental organisations should be able to appeal and take an opinion in matters relating to site protection, such as whether any area should become a nature reserve or whether it should no longer be a protected area. Environmental organisations in Sweden thought this was a very good proposal. It is also fully in line with international conventions on the early involvement of environmental organisations in processes and environmental action. Imagine my surprise, Madam President, when I see that the government in this bill does not strengthen the ability of environmental organisations to engage in various environmental processes. We in the Left Party think that should have been done. That is why we have exercised this motion, and we are also raising it in reservation 4, to which I would like to give my assent.
i-708a3df549660ac2-168	Madam President, I would like Having listened to the representatives of the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party, I am sorry to say that the Red-Green parties seem to turn a blind eye to the fact that Swedish companies, as well as the environment and climate, are actually suffering a great deal because of a disease that is so common in Sweden, namely the over-implementing of common EU law. Karlsson, Nohrén and Holm try to present the Moderates and other alliance parties as brake blocks for a more ambitious environmental and climate policy and a tougher environmental test, something that is completely wrong. The aim of the motion that we four alliance parties have put forward is to ensure that Swedish implementation of EU law does not disadvantage the competitiveness of Swedish companies. I repeat: Swedish implementation of EU law does not put the competitiveness of Swedish companies at a disadvantage. More specifically, it concerns amendments to two EU directives, on the one hand the so-called SMB Directive and, on the other hand, the so-called EIA Directive, which both concern environmental assessments. For us, it is self-evident to safeguard the competitiveness of Swedish companies and the ability to compete on fair terms on the European single market. This presupposes that in Sweden we do not introduce a lot of special legislation or go further in implementation in a way that distorts competition. Madam President, I would like It is therefore about Swedish jobs, about prosperity and well-being but also of course about the environment. Since Swedish companies are generally at the forefront of the environment, safeguarding the competitiveness of Swedish companies is also a protection of our environment. Unfortunately, this is often forgotten, at least by the red-green parties. Sweden should be a leading country in the environment and climate, and this presupposes that we succeed in reconciling a reduced negative environmental impact with economic growth. This in turn requires, among other things, a well-mannered and effective environmental assessment with reasonable demands for environmental assessments. Madam President, I would like To be honest, the European Union is quite grateful to blame us national politicians. For example, when we meet entrepreneurs who raise problems with difficult regulations and unreasonable demands, it is easy and convenient to say that it is the European Union's fault. However, the fact is that many times the problems cannot be blamed at all on the European Union. In fact, the problems are often, perhaps even more often, about how we in Sweden have chosen to implement the regulations that have been jointly negotiated within the EU. Not infrequently, we have complicated or chosen to go further by, for example, adding regulatory requirements that are not required by the common EU directives, by not using exemptions or by retaining Swedish national regulations that are more comprehensive than the EU directive, or we choose to bring forward the introduction of new rules and introduce tougher sanctions than other countries. Of course, Madam President, it is sometimes right and proper to go beyond what European directives require, as well as to have national special requirements. But it must not be done in a simple manner, but it must always be justified, and competitiveness must always be safeguarded. Otherwise we shoot ourselves as a land in the foot, as well as the environment. It is important to remember that a prerequisite for the functioning of the EU internal market is that all 28, soon 27, EU Member States comply with the same rules. When common rules are implemented in very different ways, barriers to trade are created, and freedom of movement is made more difficult. It is against this background, Madam President, that we four alliance parties wrote the motion behind the three announcements that the Committee on Environment and Agriculture now wants to make to the government. It may be a bit technical, but the committee urges the government to ensure 中 that the Swedish regulatory framework for which activities and measures that can or cannot be assumed to have significant environmental impacts should be adapted to the provisions of the EIA Directive 中 that the Swedish regulatory framework on requirements for the content of an environmental impact assessment in the context of the specific environmental assessment should comply with the requirements of the EIA Directive 中 an evaluation of the new legislation. Madam President, I would like I regret that the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party have chosen to reserve their reservations against the first two announcements. These two announcements basically concern that the environmental assessment should focus in particular on those activities that really have a significant impact on the environment. Prioritising the activities with the highest environmental impact naturally provides the greatest environmental benefit but also helps to create better conditions for overall faster processes in terms of environmental permits. Today we have a situation where it takes far too long to obtain environmental permits. Today it takes an average of four years to implement a measure requiring environmental permits. I and the Moderates don't think that's fair. The amendments made to the EIA Directive provide for a simplified EIA procedure. This change is good. It is good that EU directives are being amended in order to reduce red tape and make regulations more accurate, but then it is also important that we in Sweden take advantage of the opportunities that the directive opens up to. In conclusion, Madam President, I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight the announcement made last spring by Parliament that permit procedures should be designed in such a way that they can be simplified and shortened. The notice concerns, among other things, the moderate proposal to introduce a specific green cream file, i.e. a fast track in the permit process for activities that want to take environmental improvement measures. The Moderates and the Alliance protect the environment and the climate. Therefore, we also protect the competitiveness of Swedish companies. That is why we are anxious that common EU rules actually become common in practice.
i-708a3df549660ac2-185	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, the report does not specify the areas in which the proposal by the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats intend that Sweden should not take precedence. It is more a general approach that Sweden should not exceed the EU minimum level. It is unfortunate because it goes from what has been a principle and a tradition in Swedish international environmental policy, namely to be a driving force not only in what we say at international meetings but also in what we actually do at home. The government does not say, and we do not say in our joint reservation, that precisely in these areas Sweden must take precedence. It is important – and it leaves a door open – that in future there may be good reasons to go beyond what the EIA Directive stipulates. But the government will not be able to do so because the bourgeois and the Swedish democrats have said no. Is it not true, Johan Hultberg, that it is good if countries take precedence over the environment? If you think so, why are you preventing the government from doing so in the environmental field?
i-708a3df549660ac2-188	Madam President, I would like Let's begin, Jens Holm, be a bit self-critical. Is it always the case that we have established through history that Sweden's actions by introducing tougher environmental laws and higher taxes have contributed to more countries having followed? No, Jens Holm, it actually hasn't been all the time. Many times Sweden has not become the good country before it, but unfortunately Sweden has in practice become a deterrent. When Sweden has introduced regulations or taxation that have made Swedish companies more difficult to cope with competition from other countries, other countries have not thought that it seems a good idea and that they should do as Sweden. They have seen that the Swedish example has meant fewer jobs, less wealth and less opportunities to invest in the general good. We have to stop and question the trinitarian view that has sometimes existed in Swedish politics, namely that it is always good to go ahead. The point of going ahead is that someone else should follow. Then one must succeed in reconciling the environment with competitiveness. That's what the motion is about. The Moderates and the Alliance do not close the doors so that Sweden can go ahead, but we close the door for the routine. We think it is important for the government to be able to properly justify cases where there is reason to go further. I do not think Mr Holm has read the motion and the report carefully enough; we are not closing all the doors. But it's true that we're closing the door for the routine. Madam President, I would like I wonder why Jens Holm does not.
i-708a3df549660ac2-192	Madam President, I would like The whole basic premise of Johan Hultberg's reasoning is that tougher environmental legislation forces companies and other businesses to move to other countries. As a result, Sweden is losing competitiveness, and there will be fewer jobs. It is usually called carbon leakage, colletage in Swedish. When researchers have tried to find empirical, i.e. concrete cases, because colluding is correct, they have not found a single case. But perhaps Johan Hultberg can tell us about some concrete case that shows that tougher environmental legislation drives operations out of Sweden. Johan Hultberg said we should be self-critical. It is good to have such a general attitude. However, it is a fact that individual Member States, by taking the lead in the environmental field, are in fact a driving force internationally. I am thinking, for example, of the ban on paraquats, a pesticide in agriculture that existed in Sweden. Sweden joined the EU, and we had to release that ban. Then Sweden pushed the issue within the EU, and now there is an EU ban on paraquat. I spoke earlier about PFOS in fire-extinguishing foam. There Sweden has been a driving force, and now it has actually become a ban on PFOS. There are a number of other examples of chemicals and substances where individual Member States, including Sweden, have been proactive, regulated nationally, and then others have followed. It is regrettable, Madam President, that the Moderates, the other bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats no longer seem to be behind the idea that individual Member States should drive and go beyond what the EU and others say is only a minimum level for the environment.
i-708a3df549660ac2-195	Madam President, I would like I tried to be clear in my speech. The Alliance's motion is about ensuring that the implementation of common EU law does not put Swedish competitiveness at a disadvantage. Since Swedish companies are generally at the forefront of the environment and climate, it is an environmental problem if Swedish rules or implementation of common rules in Sweden makes Swedish companies more competitive. We do not close the door for Sweden to go ahead. There are many examples where Sweden has gone ahead successfully, but there are unfortunately many examples where Sweden has not gone ahead successfully and the competitiveness of Swedish companies has deteriorated. Agriculture is unfortunately an area where it has been clear that many farmers have not met the tougher environmental and animal welfare requirements that exist in Sweden. We live in an open market in Europe. In practice, consumers do not always value the tougher requirements that exist in Sweden. We Moderates are often prepared to make tougher demands, but then we want to improve the conditions for business by, for example, reducing taxes or investing in infrastructure. Here again, Madam President, we differ from the Left Party. Not only does the Left want to go ahead with tougher demands, but the Left Party also wants to go ahead with higher taxes on everything that moves, on jobs, entrepreneurship and most of what we consume. This does not lead to increased competitiveness for Swedish companies, but it leads to reduced opportunities for Swedish companies to deliver environmental benefits. The directive opens the way for simplification. We are concerned about – that's what our second announcement is about – that the government does not make a classification that makes companies not eligible for easier handling where there is no need for a full environmental impact assessment. I regret that the Left Party does not share this concern.
i-708a3df549660ac2-200	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats think that the bill is generally well balanced and in an appropriate way update the environmental code in accordance with agreed EU directives. At the same time, it is important to emphasise that the proposal involves significant changes in the field of environmental law. A new sixth chapter is introduced. The proposal will have an impact on all those involved in some form of environmental impact assessment or assessment. This legislation is not only about meeting EU directives, but also about an ambition to streamline the environmental code's provisions on environmental assessments, programmes, measures, plans and so on. The hope is that the environment will be protected while time-consuming bureaucracy and administration will be relaxed. Sweden is late in adopting the directives, which could result in fines. But it does not have to be negative at all if it means better regulation. Combining increased environmental ambitions with cutting red tape and costs for businesses sounds fantastic. I think we all agree on that. We must have high ambitions in the environmental field, and tough and reasonable demands must be made on all activities that have a negative environmental impact. Madam President, I would like While the legislation is based on good ambitions, it is difficult not to be a bit skeptical. Is the rule really going to be reduced? Will the administrative burden really be reduced and not increased, as has so often been the case? For this reason, it is positive that the majority of the committee has agreed on several announcements, because it is a current problem that, for example, licensing processes are incredibly long and costly for our companies. If we are to set an example in the environmental field, we must be clear about combining this with a healthy business environment. It is therefore essential that such a comprehensive new legislation is properly evaluated, which is why it is positive that we should evaluate it after three years. Of course, legislation will need to be evaluated later, as the judicial review takes time, but it is positive if the evaluation process can get under way as quickly as possible. It is also positive that we are now receiving announcements that limit the government's ability to issue further regulations on what environmental impact assessments should contain. If the purpose of the legislation is to clarify, it is risky if the current government gets the impression that it can relatively freely issue new regulations outside the EIA Directive. We are not fundamentally opposed to Sweden being able to adopt its own legislation, but if you do not trust the government to take into account the Swedish business environment, Swedish jobs or Swedish competitiveness, you naturally think that this poses a risk. And unfortunately we do not have a government that protects growth or Swedish jobs today. If that were the case, all these announcements might not be necessary, but today the case is that we have a government that cannot be trusted in terms of growth and jobs. That is why we are calling for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-708a3df549660ac2-209	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Environmentally impacted activities must meet high demands and rules. Processes and permits must be designed with an overall view of the business' environmental impact, both positive and negative. We must have effective and reasonable systems, because that is a competitive advantage in a globalised economy. The Center Party believes that reforms are needed to improve the management and testing of these activities. Basically, the system should be designed so that resources are spent on the right things. The scope of the process must also be based on the risk of the operation. The Center Party therefore has three points that lead us in our work. Firstly, for activities with less risk, such as investment in new purification technologies, a temporary increase in production or various forms of testing or testing, we need to have a process that is simpler and faster. Secondly, the definition of what is classified as different categories of environmentally hazardous activities needs to be reviewed. A person who already has and manages his or her condition should be able to be handled more easily. A minor change should not lead to a review of the entire business. Thirdly, better support and coordination and more effective working methods are needed in order to give priority to the resources of the authorities. The authorities must much more support and help the activities to move forward instead of controlling and having formal structures. Even before you receive a formal application, you must be able to help and make it easy to do right from the start. Few people today feel that we have service-oriented authorities in relation to environmental permits. The authorities must also coordinate much earlier so that they do not appeal against each other's decisions and so we get appeals from other authorities into the court proceedings. With tougher environmental regulations, service-oriented authorities and fast and legally secure processes, we can have more investments and, at the same time, better environment. These three points lead to a number of conclusions on the proposal we are now debating and have also had repercussions in our budget. We will vote in favour of the current proposal, because the ambition is good and simplification is welcomed. At the same time, however, the government is sneaking in on the possibility of amending regulations and extending the requirements, that is, things that do not need to be clubbed by the Riksdag. It creates uncertainty about what environmental assessments will contain and risks making already lengthy processes even longer. That is why we have a follow-up motion from the Alliance that points out the direction of the government. We need more legal certainty and clear requirements. Practices already differ from one county to another. If the government is to be able to float further, we risk having an unsustainable situation. Today's environmental testing system is extensive, lengthy and often expensive. In our neighbouring countries, there are far fewer such investigations. A study a few years ago showed that in Denmark there are about a hundred and in Finland a few dozen. In Finland, the authorities work much more with companies to facilitate their handling. You sit down from the beginning and discuss: how are we going to get these permits... if at all possible? In Sweden we control and regulate. We also see that various activities that we otherwise welcome with open arms are given unsustainable conditions. A wind turbine often takes seven to eight years to build. Then the technology has been much further ahead, so we get a worse wind turbine and need to put up with more to reach the target of 100% renewable. That cannot, of course, be the purpose of the legislation. Hydropower cannot be modernised because you risk getting rid of your entire permit even if you only want to do a minor renovation of your turbines. Not to mention the smaller companies that need to carry out a full environmental impact assessment when the business is to be expanded. There will be such a big obstacle that the expansion will not be possible. We therefore want to limit the possibility of requiring full environmental impact assessments when this is not justified. By putting the resources where they are really useful – in our budget we spend extra money on this – we get a more efficient system, a system where different authorities have to sort out their differences before they come to court, a system where anyone who wants to invest gets the right conditions and a system that protects the environment. This creates growth in Sweden and opportunities for companies to export. It also creates a government structure that can be exported, which other countries want to follow. This means that we get environmental benefits both in Sweden and in the rest of the world.
i-708a3df549660ac2-221	Madam President, I would like In this debate, I would like to turn to the Green Voice of the Alliance, the Center Party. In his speech, Rickard Nordin talked a lot about the application of the legislation. It is of course important to discuss these issues and continue to monitor how the work on simplification and shortening of processing times is proceeding on the basis of the government assignments that have been put in place. But we have also heard Johan Hultberg, with whom Rickard Nordin has joint announcements, saying that Sweden should not go before EU law in environmental legislation. At Johan Hultberg it sounded like he does not completely exclude the possibility of Sweden moving forward, but to go ahead by definition is something that disadvantages Swedish companies' competitiveness. I would like to turn to the Center Party and ask: is it also the principled position of the Center Party that this pre-empting environmental legislation is by definition bad for competitiveness and therefore something that we should not concern ourselves with? ( FIRST VICE TALMANN: I would like to remind you that you address the speaker on whom you reply. )
i-708a3df549660ac2-226	Madam President, I would like If Sara Karlsson had listened properly to Johan Hultberg, she would have heard that he also said that there are opportunities to make tough more demands where it is justified. That's the point of the entire Alliance's exercise. Where this is not justified, we stick to the low standards, which make it quicker and easier to test. Where it is justified, where there are things that are better to do for the environment, it is reasonable to do the greater environmental impact assessment and make the higher demands. It is also stated in the Alliance's motion that this kind of assessment can be made on a case-by-case basis. However, the basic rule must be that we remain at the same level as the rest of the European Union, because at times when it is not justified, we should not do so. This is about freeing up resources so that we can invest in those areas where we need to aim even harder and make it faster and more efficient so that we actually get sensible rules. It cannot be reasonable for the current system to take seven eight years to build a wind turbine. Furthermore, when the Social Democrats agree with the Center Party, the Moderates and a few more parties that we should move towards 100% renewable, we must have systems where we apply it in reality. That is what we lack; that is what makes us see that we need to review this system so that we can put the resources where they are needed, so that we can phase out the toxic substances, so that we can ensure that we have the right rules for our hydropower that we are negotiating at the moment. This is what we should focus on, not to hinder those who want to take steps towards technological development and make environmental improvements. That is what the reality is right now, and then we have to say stop from the Alliance. I wonder what the Social Democrats are doing and what Sara Karlsson thinks. Is it reasonable that we have as long processing times as we have for these activities today? Is it reasonable for us to prevent investment because it is too extensive an impact assessment?
i-708a3df549660ac2-230	Madam President, I would like I also spoke in my speech about the long processing times and things that need to be changed. It is hard to see that we would be particularly divided about what Mr Nordin is talking about. There is really little ground for disagreement if you look at what is actually in the bill and what it aims at, namely to clarify and simplify. There are also no current proposals that would mean that we went beyond EU law. Then one can only conclude that it is a principled position that the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats want to establish: not to go beyond EU law. In fact, there are no such proposals under discussion. This proposal does not aim to do so. This is an attitude that I have not quite understood that the Center Party has had in the past, and I regret that development.
i-708a3df549660ac2-233	Madam President, I would like I think what I and Sara Karlsson disagree on is that this bill also gives the government the opportunity to do something they want – to make regulations that they want. This is the big problem, which means that we are not sure that the government will not act in a way that will give us even more comprehensive guidelines and trials and even more lengthy processes. There we are not united; that is not the way we want to go. It is clear that we should have a high level of environmental protection. If Sara Karlsson agrees on that, we agree on that, because it is the entrance of the Center Party. But we should not have rules that make it harder to run companies and to make environmental improvements in companies. We have such examples today: we want to make a change that would actually mean an improvement but cannot be implemented. That is totally unacceptable to me. This gives us long, expensive and, above all, unnecessary proceedings when authorities sit and appeal each other's decisions in courts. That's not the way I and the Center Party want to go, and that's where we seem to be divorcing.
i-708a3df549660ac2-236	Madam President, I would like I can begin by agreeing with what my alliance colleagues Johan Hultberg and Rickard Nordin have said and by calling for the committee's proposal and rejection of all four reservations. I note that we support the proposal so that there is no misunderstanding about this. As Johan Hultberg points out, it is very important that we should be able to reconcile high environmental standards with effective licensing processes, not least in view of Swedish competitiveness. This proposal is very comprehensive and very technical. It is also linked to an incredible number of changes in other laws, and you can see how the Swedish environmental laws are connected. It is good so far, and as I said, we are behind the bill. The aim of improving the efficiency and clarity of legislation is good, and the implementation of the EIA Directive is also necessary. However, the focus should still be on those activities that can have significant environmental impacts. With regard to environmental impact assessments, it can also be noted that the perspective of the EIA Directive is broadened to include climate change, biodiversity and risks of accidents and disasters. This is a highly relevant point of view in today's discussion on climate change and its adaptation, so it is of course very good. The clarification of environmental assessments, the extent to which they are to be made and how they can be justified for environmental reasons is an extremely good starting point – that, after all, you start in the environment and see what requirements you should make. The proposal then also deals with clarifications in the Environmental Code regarding the assessment of the environmental impact of certain plans and programmes under the so-called SEA Directive. Here too, the focus is on activities that can be assumed to have significant environmental impacts, so it is important that you really do the right things and do not do it routinely, as Johan Hultberg put it. We note that a united committee supports the changes proposed in the legislation. Then the Alliance has a number of further proposals, Madam President, in a follow-up motion. So far in the debate, I think we have talked a little bit past each other. In short, these proposals are aimed at ensuring that the environmental impact assessment requirements are clear and predictable on the basis of the EU Directive. The same applies to the categorisation of activities that can or cannot be assumed to have significant environmental impacts. This is a bit of the essence of it all. You can categorize and make the list very long, and then you get this kind of routine test, which does not really benefit the environment or competitiveness. Finally, they should only be done for administrative reasons. As we write in the motion, it is important that there is an opportunity to make that assessment on a case-by-case basis. If an activity according to the categorisation in the directive is not on the list, we should nevertheless be able to carry out an environmental impact assessment. Then it will not be routinely, but actually an environmental assessment on a case-by-case basis. It is important to be able to do so. This will result in a much better focus on those activities that may have significant environmental impacts. There is no one here who thinks we should investigate for the sake of investigation; we should actually get results from the investigation. Then there is a discussion in the report based on our follow-up motion and dealing with deadlines. This is also an important point that we have highlighted in other legislation. Not least in the Planning and Construction Act, it has been an important point. This is also about predictability: one must be able to predict when a condition can come. Here, both four and seven years and other things have been discussed. For an entrepreneur, these are totally unacceptable times; the reality has to change in the meantime. Finally, I can say that following up legislation may seem self-evident. However, on the Liberal side, we believe that in this case it is so complicated that one may not be able to see the exact outcome, so we think it is good and satisfactory that the whole committee has supported the conclusion that we should look at this within a couple of years.
i-708a3df549660ac2-249	Madam President, I would like There are two things I would like to ask Lars Tysklind about. First of all, Lars Tysklind said that we need predictability when it comes to environmental testing and that it is unreasonable that certain processes can take a really long time. I very much agree with that. But it was Lars Tysklind and his party and former bourgeois government that introduced the so-called municipal veto against wind power installations, which means that many municipalities put a stop to the establishment of wind power. There is no time limit, no formal procedure and no possibility of appeal – no democratic process at all. It is only a veto, and it was then the People's Party and the bourgeois parties that introduced it. Does Lars Tysklind think it's a good order? The second point that Lars Tysklind noted was that important changes are being made to this proposal from the government. We clarify and strengthen the environmental code. These are very important processes – making environmental assessments, making environmental impact assessments, turning and turning all the different states – so that we can really take full account of the environment. Then I would like to ask Lars Tysklind: Why should the Swedish Armed Forces be exempted from this important environmental test? This is the case with this proposal.
i-708a3df549660ac2-253	Madam President, I would like The first question was about wind power. I have always felt that the expression municipal veto is a bit distortive. That is not what this is about; it is about municipal influence. When the legislation on environmental testing of wind power was drawn up, it was discussed that municipalities must in some way still have some kind of influence. Otherwise, this would be one of the few activities that municipalities would not have influence over in terms of land use. In addition, municipalities have a planned monopoly on land use. Then I can agree that the execution in this regard is not entirely successful. In many municipalities this works very well. This is because there is a dialogue between the wind power companies and the municipalities at an early stage, so that we actually agree on what is viable and what is not feasible. However, there are also examples of just driving, which means that the municipalities then have the ready-made proposal to just take a stand on straight up and down. That's when you get this kind of conflict. So it may be that we actually need to look at this, not least with regard to the time limit that will apply. We have also spoken in today's debate about deadlines, and it is reasonable that there should be deadlines for these proposals as well. So you should not just be able to delay a decision so that it does not happen. So there are corrections there. But we from the Liberals do not think it reasonable that the municipalities could not have any influence. The second question on environmental assessments can be answered in the next line.
i-708a3df549660ac2-257	Madam President, I would like I think that a rather large responsibility rests with the parties that introduced the municipal veto against wind power. If you are going to have one, you have to ensure that you introduce a correct legislation that is transparent, that can be appealed, where there are time limits and so on. None of it introduced Lars Tysklind's then government. It is good that the Liberals now think that this needs to be reviewed. As Lars Tysklind well knows, these opportunities for influence for municipalities are very much in the planning and construction law, the environmental code and so on. But I also had another question for Lars Tysklind: Why should we exempt the Swedish Armed Forces from this important legislation that requires environmental assessments and other thorough environmental investigations? In my speech, I raised the major problems with the chemical PFOS which has leaked from several aircraft fleets and training sites that have been under the command of the Swedish Armed Forces. It is about Tullinge south of Stockholm, Ärna in Uppsala, Kallinge in Blekinge and so on. It is a huge problem that the water is now poisoned there and that you have to filter it for hundreds of thousands of crowns. And parents are really scared of what's going to happen to their kids and so on. Lars Tysklind, couldn't it be a good idea to impose requirements on the Swedish Armed Forces to also produce clear environmental assessments for their operations? Why exclude the defense?
i-708a3df549660ac2-261	Madam President, I would like I'll have to do a little follow-up on the municipal veto. That is exactly what we are talking about when we talk about the follow-up to this legislation, namely that we can be a little humble in this context. When you introduce something, you don't know exactly how it will be handled. It might still be wrong. I have no feeling that the Left Party was driving the process, but I think that the Left Party really did not want the municipalities to be involved in it at all. That's where we split up. Of course, we must also be able to impose environmental requirements on defence. It is also done in many ways. We are now discussing Vättern, for example, and requirements for unleaded ammunition have been introduced. It feels like a matter of course. I do not know whether an environmental test would have precipitated the scandals that have been in relation to airport extinguishing agents. It's not sure. Generally speaking, it is quite common for total defence and civil protection to be exempted from these rules in EU directives. This does not mean that we should not be able to impose environmental requirements on defence. I therefore do not believe that there is any direct contradiction with this that the Left Party is trying to paint.
i-708a3df549660ac2-265	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture's report on environmental assessments. We Christian Democrats are therefore in favour of the amendments to the environmental code proposed in the report. With some minor amendments, the committee has adopted the proposal for amendments to the environmental code in a number of so-called sectoral laws. We also agree with the three announcements made in the report to the Government regarding the content of the environmental impact assessment, the clarification of the content of the environmental impact assessment and the evaluation of the law. In the 1960s Sweden had no environmental legislation to talk about, and the need for one became very clear when a number of environmental scandals were discovered, including in Teckomatorp in Skåne. As a result, the Environmental Protection Act entered into force in 1969. It provided for an administrative control system with authorisation and enforcement procedures. At the beginning of the 1980s, the Environmental Protection Act was tightened up, including requirements for consultation with authorities and individuals. Ten years later, environmental impact assessment rules were introduced. Today's decision is about making some more sensible changes to the environmental code. They mean that the legislative text is refreshed so that the aim is to integrate environmental aspects into planning and decision-making and to promote sustainable development. That is what the report says. We on behalf of the Alliance have proposed that the requirements for the content of environmental impact assessments should relate only to those requirements which are necessary for the proper implementation of the EU directives. It is extremely valuable to strive to establish common rules for a better environment in the Member States of the European Union. In today's report, it is about developing common environmental requirements based on EU directives that everyone should comply with. Then we can strive for ambitious environmental objectives without disrupting competition between Member States. On the other hand, if we in Sweden had our own special rules that go partly beyond the common EU rules, we would create less competitive conditions. At the same time, additional bureaucracy and uncertainty are created for the various operators. For this reason, Parliament should approve the committee's proposal, which includes approval of the alliance motion. Madam President, I would like The EU directives also set a clear maximum time limit for the decision to be taken by the responsible authority. The maximum limit specified is 90 days. In order for there to be no doubt that Sweden intends to implement this part of the directive, this time limit should be included in the Swedish law, as proposed by the Alliance. The importance of following up and evaluating the laws we in Parliament decide on cannot be stressed enough. It's really important. Does the law work the way it was supposed to? Does it need to be adjusted? Does it need to be supplemented? Are there loopholes that could not be foreseen when the law was written? Etcetera. The environmental code is no exception; the law, as proposed by the Alliance, needs to be evaluated already after three years. As the report shows, it will probably be that no real practice has been developed after such a short period of time, but it is nevertheless important and has a great value to make an early assessment as far as possible. It is also important that we follow up that the concrete effect of the changes is in line with the stated objective of a simpler and more efficient process. This is also announced by the Riksdag to the Government. Like the government, we believe it is important to strengthen public access to environmental information, judicial review and participation in the decision-making process. At the same time, each measure must be preceded by a careful balance between different interests on the basis of the respective conditions. We are following the work that is going on in the Government Office regarding, among other things, the European Commission's views on how Sweden fulfils international commitments regarding access to justice for environmental organisations. With those words, Madam President, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved and for the four reservations to be rejected.
i-708a3df549660ac2-276	Madam President, I would like Today, in Parliament, we are going to discuss the review of the Commission's discussion paper on globalisation. It is a complicated title, but in fact it contains quite a lot of obvious things. It's a world-wide reflection of what contemporary life looks like – what global competition looks like, where globalisation, urbanisation and digitalisation affect our lives on a daily basis. What distinguishes the present and the future from the past is that time and place are constantly shrinking. Today there is almost no time difference between standing in Sweden and speaking in parliament and listening to the same thing in Auckland, New Zealand. There are no time delays; everything is real time. There are also not very great differences in places, for the place plays a less and less role in modern society. Our ability to communicate with each other in real time makes time and place obsolete. There's always real time, everywhere. This affects our ability to acquire knowledge. It's going a lot faster. It affects our ability to produce. You can do it in many different places – you can do it based on an order on one side of the globe that is quickly executed on the other side of the globe, because the third day is delivered to another place on the globe. Consumption does not take place in the same context as that in which knowledge and production have arisen. Against this is another trend, and it is the locally produced one. There is a need to know where things come from and to feel secure with what is produced to make you feel comfortable as a consumer. Man's role in production is also decreasing. More and more are mechanized, and soon artificial intelligence, which is so far at the laboratory stage but within a short time in many places and in many ways, is likely to prove superior to the human brain's ability to create good forces. What we as people in Europe and the world then have as a challenge is to focus on what machines and computers cannot replace. We need to focus on what human beings are unique. Madam President, I would like The Commission has focused on globalisation and its effects, on the future prospects and on the EU's external action. The Commission believes that existing multilateral institutions such as the UN, the IMF and the WTO need to be strengthened and reformed. The Commission believes that they should be fairer and better served. I think it is important to get a little caught up in the concept of fair and equitable. We eight party representatives in the Swedish Parliament can add a little different meaning to what a fair and fair decision is made. Justice is when it is clear, predictable and logical. When you can see that there is a connection between different values, it is fair, and it is a fair trade based on these conditions that we in Sweden have every reason to be representative of. The Commission is also looking at the EU's internal action. It is a question of making Europe competitive and innovative, and the Commission believes that this also requires a great deal of effort. It is believed that concrete measures need to be taken at EU, Member State and local and regional level and that this should be targeted at the sectors of the future. When I read the Commission's report, I thought a little bit about how the Commission can know what the sectors of the future are. Today, half of the labour force in Sweden works with things that were not on the map 40 years ago. In 20 years' time, half of the workforce is expected to work on things that we know nothing about today. It may then seem a little too ambitious to focus on what are the industries of the future. Maybe we don't even know what they are today. On the other hand, we need to prepare with knowledge, education, technology development and innovative environments – conditions to be able to respond quickly to technology shifts and the shifts that exist in terms of demand and people's needs. It must be possible to do so in a socially and economically sustainable way. That's how we build society. This also requires regional and local investment. This requires that money and capital can flow across borders in a good and healthy way, where tariffs and obstacles do not put a stop to it. Trade has created prosperity, and millions of people have been lifted out of poverty thanks to global trade. Access to capital, innovation and skills has contributed through trade to increased growth – not least in many developing countries. Those who take the step forward are those who affirm business freedom, free enterprise, functioning property rights and financial rules and institutions as the basis for economic and social development. Sweden's journey from poverty to prosperity was based on free trade and free trade. Madam President, I would like Through trade, economies grow, and the citizens of developing countries have a greater opportunity to influence their future. There, as a member of the European Union, we can be a strong driving force through trade as a further development of aid. It starts with aid but often ends with trade, and that is the best aid you can help with. Madam President, I would like I would like to mention something about investment protection and dispute resolution. This is an issue that has been much debated in connection with the TTIP, the Transatlantic Investment and Partnership Agreement between the EU and the US. For many companies investing in another country is a huge step to take. There is uncertainty. A small or medium-sized company in Sweden that will take the step across the Atlantic and establish operations and build factories must feel secure. There must then be assurances that the activity will not be expropriated and that the company's ability to operate will not be limited for other reasons. There must be a dispute settlement mechanism to deal with disputes between states and investors. There has been a system, the so-called ISDS clause, which has proved to be working well but which has received a great deal of criticism in the debate. The Commission has developed a new variant, which has now been included in the CETA agreement with Canada. In this context, I would like to express a certain reservation about throwing the baby out with the bath water. The ISDS Agreement has worked for a long time. Let us implement these reforms in a conservative way, slowly and cautiously. Let us not change what is good, but let us possibly change what may be better. Madam President, I would like With reference to the above, I would like to ask for the committee's proposal to be approved. I would also like to support the reservations on reasons 2 and 4.
i-708a3df549660ac2-293	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. Today we are going to debate the Commission's discussion paper on globalisation. Globalisation brings the countries of the world closer together politically, culturally and economically. This generally generates increased trade and reduced gaps but also major challenges. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are an EU-critical party. We have some differences of opinion with regard to the Commission and other parliamentary parties, and I will mention these in my speech. We believe that the European Union should step back, especially in view of the outcome of the referendum in the United Kingdom. It is important that the EU anchors its visions to the population. From this perspective, we welcome the discussion on the future of the European Union, where the discussion paper on globalisation forms part of it. The EU is often represented as a guarantor of Europe's diversity and culture, but we believe that it is exactly the opposite. The EU is a uniform and slow bureaucracy with the vision that all Member States will develop in the same direction, regardless of their own economic, cultural, infrastructure, energy, social conditions, the labour market, education and so on – the list can be long. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the Swedish Democrats see many advantages with parts of internal free movement, including in terms of goods, capital and competitively neutral services. But letting everything go completely free without regulation is something that we cannot support. Moreover, if EU policies are to be fully adopted at a global level, they can have far-reaching negative effects. We therefore believe that it is of the utmost importance that trade agreements and agreements relating to the labour market and economic and social cooperation are closely monitored regarding the impact on the Swedish labour market and on our taxpayers. We see serious shortcomings with the European Union, such as the fact that the principle of subsidiarity is actively opposed by the Commission and that the democratic deficit and the lack of commitment of ordinary Europeans are striking. The ability to take decisions against the will of individual Member States has led to faster and deeper integration, which, combined with the lack of flexibility in the Treaties, has led to the deepest break that European cooperation has ever suffered, namely the withdrawal of the United Kingdom. We believe that today's Europe is not a sustainable platform for cooperation but is a clear threat to its own greatest success, namely the single market, which is now at risk of fragmentation. Having said that, I would like to be particularly clear: with regard to the Commission's White Paper on the future of Europe, which contains five scenarios, we believe that scenario 2 is the only possible one. In this scenario, the EU is shifting its focus to the single market, which in the long term would allow for a more intergovernmental Europe. We have made this clear in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats generally welcome free and open trade in goods and services. The creation of global trade agreements is generally desirable. We also believe that other interests than purely economic ones should be taken into account in trade policy, such as animal science, corporate social responsibility and environmental aspects. We believe that Sweden and the EU, within the framework of the WTO, the World Trade Organization, should work towards open and free trade and counter protectionism. Few things would harm Sweden's industry more than if the EU and its trading partners were to start restricting or otherwise preventing international trade. In this context, we would therefore like to emphasise the importance of a trade agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union. We welcome the Commission's overall commercial strategy, as it can generate positive effects in selected parts for both the European and Swedish markets. However, taking into account proposals from the Commission in other areas such as energy, infrastructure and growth-generating measures, we see a recurring problem in terms of financial engineering, increased use of structural funds, socio-economic projects, constant cost-driven solutions and the creation of bogus jobs. Although it is often emphasised that proposals from the EU should not generate any cost-driven effects, it is clear that they do. We believe that this means an increased burden for Swedish taxpayers. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats, as I mentioned earlier, are critical of the European Union. However, we believe in a certain level of European cooperation, not least with regard to the single market. In our vision of future European cooperation, there is no need for European Structural and Investment Funds. We have been critical of the funds in the past, not least when we see how the distribution of the funds puts Sweden at a disadvantage. In this context, we would particularly like to underline our view that Sweden should not, as a consequence of Brexit, pay a higher net fee to the common budget – not a single crown! The only option is to reduce the common budget. If it is now not possible to abolish the ESI Funds and allow the Member States themselves to assess their need for action, we would like to stress the importance of using the EU Structural Funds as effectively as possible through more rigorous controls. In some cases, project disbursements will be made when the projects are completed, in order to overcome the problems that we believe exist today. Furthermore, we believe that structural funds should only be used for projects to stimulate growth and not for socio-economic projects. They should also be distributed more fairly among the Member States.
i-708a3df549660ac2-313	Madam President, I would like Johan Nissinen seems to be very pleased that the EU is not feeling very well. He wants the EU to step back, as the EU has indeed done when the UK has chosen to step out of the EU. At the same time, I hear that Johan Nissinen, as a Swedish democrat, speaks well of three of the four freedoms in terms of mobility – the movement of goods, the movement of capital and the movement of services – but not the movement of people. I find that interesting. In my speech, I talked about how global developments make time and place less interesting. Everything's coming together. Today, it does not matter where you produce – it will anyway land on the other side of the world, in the north or in the south. Real time always exists. But what I hear when Johan Nissinen speaks is a step back. It is not just a step backwards for Europe, it is a step backwards for the world. It is a step backwards for what is fundamental to human interaction, namely reciprocity. Today, the movement of goods, capital and services can no longer be restricted and kept separate from the movement of people. I would like to hear Johan Nissinen explain why it is so dangerous for people to move across borders, when it is people who are responsible for the flows of goods, capital flows and service flows. Services cannot be realized if there are no people, and then people must break borders. Why?
i-708a3df549660ac2-318	Madam President, I would like In fact, I do not believe that the Moderates believe in completely free and open borders either, because in that case you would probably have made a different decision on your national act recently. You can't have completely open boundaries. All countries must in some way be able to control who enters the countries, otherwise just anyone can come in and target terrorist threats and other things. Then you cannot have an open society where everyone can come in and take part in the welfare, but you have to have a certain restriction on people who can come in. In fact, I think Mr Rothenberg agrees with that.
i-708a3df549660ac2-321	Madam President, I would like That's a short answer. I understand that it was short, because perhaps it is a bit difficult to put that thought into this context. We are talking about globalisation, about how the world should grow and become more accessible to people, especially people who today do not have the opportunity to assimilate what we in our highly developed Western environment have built up together with other countries of our own strength but in interaction with others. It is a quality of life, a prosperity. Johan Nissinen talks about trade agreements we should have. We shall have CSR agreements, and we shall develop cooperation within the WTO with world trade and counter protectionism. However, I come back to this that one of the greatest protectionist threats is to restrict people's mobility. It is very true that we cannot open all the cranes and all the turning doors. But if it is in something that my moderate friends differ from the Swedish Democrats and Johan Nissinen's friends, it is that we believe in man. We do not believe that all people who want to move across borders are terrorists. We don't think they want anything bad. In fact, we believe that there is a lot of good in people. I think it is appropriate for Johan Nissinen to have a chance to answer the question: why do you talk so well about the free movement of goods, capital and services when you do not want to talk so well about the free movement of people, which is the prerequisite for the first three movements?
i-708a3df549660ac2-325	Madam President, I would like It turned out that neither did the Moderates believe in total freedom of movement, because it does not work. We can't have completely open boundaries. We can have free trade and labour immigration. People should be able to come when there is a need. But we can't just open and say that everyone can come to Sweden because they want to come to Sweden. That is why we do not believe in total freedom of movement. It doesn't work in practice. You cannot maintain a modern society if you have complete freedom of movement. If the whole world had had exactly the same standard, it would have worked, because then it wouldn't have happened that people would want to move just to get better, and if we hadn't had any world terrorism, it wouldn't have been a problem either. It is not possible to have total freedom of movement, but it is possible to have labour immigration and free trade. It is not in contrast to not having complete freedom of movement, and I think Mr Rothenberg actually agrees with that.
i-Kd9mVfoENjgcCGK4q96njW	I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2 by Mr M, Mr C, Mr L and Mr KD in this opinion. Today we are discussing the European Commission's discussion paper on globalisation. Have we always had freedom of movement? Even within Sweden, one could not move freely in the past. Before 1860 you had to bring a passport if you were to travel outside the county. Over a hundred years ago, the folk school teacher was the height of knowledge in the village. The teacher was able to show posters of foreign animals and plants from countries far away, so far away that you could not go there. When my grandfather was young, cars were unusual in Sweden. Later in life, he was also sceptical that someone had actually landed on the moon in 1969. When I was a teenager, half of the EU's 28 countries were dictatorships – Portugal, Spain, Cyprus, Greece and the whole Eastern bloc. When I was young in the 80's, I was a combat pilot in the Swedish Air Force and experienced the end of the Cold War. And the fall of the wall in 1989 came as a surprise to almost all of us. The world took a new turn and dictatorships in Europe became open democracies. We have now become accustomed to living with open borders in Europe, that people, goods, services and capital can move freely, and that has brought peace and prosperity. I insist that nothing was better before. But something is happening in the world right now, not only in Europe but also on other continents. Many Europeans, especially the younger ones, see that life can be improved by links with people in other countries and continents. And that's right. About one third of the EU's national income comes from trade with the rest of the world. But many people are also worried. For them, globalisation means job losses, social injustice, low environmental, health and privacy standards. They see globalisation as an erosion of traditions and identities. This concern, which we perhaps did not take very seriously to begin with, must be taken seriously if we are to keep Europe and Sweden together and not allow the backward nationalist forces to grow stronger, driven by the Kremlin who see their chance of making Russia strong again. In today's situation, more than ever before, local issues are global and global issues are local. While globalisation affects almost all aspects of our lives, the citizens of Europe are experiencing these developments in completely different ways. The world faces increasing cross-border challenges, ranging from unprecedented migratory flows to terrorist threats, financial crises, pandemics and climate change. Even the largest and richest countries have no longer the capacity to deal with the challenges they face on their own. Global cooperation is becoming increasingly important in today's world. Madam President, I would like The openness of global trade has strengthened the EU's economic growth, raising prosperity and contributing to our continued competitiveness. The EU's share of global goods exports is still above 15% and has fallen by only a fraction since the turn of the century, which is a strength in view of China's emerging WTO membership and export engine. Globalisation has had similar positive effects throughout the world. It has helped lift millions of people out of poverty and allowed poor countries to catch up. It has played a role in increasing stability in the world, but also in democracy and peace. The UN Sustainable Development Goals provide a comprehensive framework to address poverty and raise living standards in developing countries, while creating the conditions for future export markets. Prospects for a sustainable future of prosperity in home countries also help to reduce the management of irregular migration flows to Europe. At the same time, globalisation presents challenges. The benefits are unevenly distributed between people, countries and regions, and some are less able to adapt to change and competition than others. The combination of globalisation and technological change has increased the demand for skilled labour but reduced the number of jobs for people with low or no training, especially in manufacturing. The redundant find it difficult to find a new job, especially if it requires further training. Legal immigration has generally strengthened the economy of the beneficiary countries and can provide the EU with the skills needed to overcome labour shortages. If infrastructure and integration efforts do not keep pace locally with increasing migration, this leads to social tensions in society. Especially in countries and regions with high unemployment and social exclusion, the economic and social costs may be high, while in some cases marginalisation of people may lead to radicalisation. Unless Sweden and the EU continue to take effective action, there is a risk that globalisation will have the effects of technological progress and the recent economic crisis interact in a way that is not good and will lead to even more inequality and polarisation in society. Many people worry about lack of influence over their future and feel that their children have worse prospects than they had. This concern is due to the perception that governments have lost control, ability or willingness to shape globalisation and manage its effects in a way that benefits everyone. This is a political challenge for Sweden, the EU and all other countries. Madam President, I would like In the wake of the economic crisis and the setback that has followed in the form of the resistance to globalisation, we have already witnessed steps in the direction of isolationism in a number of places. The multilateral negotiations that would remove barriers to trade have largely halted over the last decade, and protectionism is back on track. Even countries that have supported an open global economy are now looking into how to slow down imports, restrict immigration and promote domestic production. All in all, this development has contributed to the recent marked slowdown in global trade growth. If we close our borders, others will do the same. We're all going to be losers. Protectionism would disrupt production and lead to higher prices and costs for consumers. We must pay particular attention to strengthening the resilience to this, especially in rural communities that are at risk of being left behind by globalisation. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, we agree relatively on our position and positioning, and this includes the Center Party. Nevertheless, I think it is important that we have a more lively debate on how we in Sweden can actively contribute to the development of the EU so that what we have been involved in building can continue to contribute to peace and prosperity in Europe and Sweden.
i-708a3df549660ac2-349	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the effects of globalisation in order to highlight and create debate on current European issues, in this particular case trade and globalisation. On trade issues, the Left Party is a different voice from the other parties. We do not stand with pompons and celebrate all that free trade is called. We are trying to problematise and discuss whether it would not be better to find a different balance point for both Sweden's and the EU's trade policy. Unfortunately, the other parties so far are very ill-heard. While we stand here debating trade, Minister of Trade Ann Linde is travelling in Saudi Arabia of the dictatorship. It is an extremely conservative country where the differences between men's and women's opportunities are enormous. Nevertheless, the government finds it difficult to call the country a dictatorship. We Swedes today have a naive and distorted view of dictatorships that oppress. We are happy to worry when a mosque is to be started, where the funding comes from, if it is extreme conservative wahhabism, which is Saudi Arabia's national religion, which is behind and how it will affect Swedish society. At the same time, we have no criticism that Saudi Arabia is our largest trading partner in the Middle East and that over a thousand Swedish companies operate there, thereby also supporting the power of the dictatorship. The fact that the government also points out Saudi Arabia in its export strategy despite the Saudis' extreme dependence on oil, which should stay on the slopes, shows how backward Swedish trade policy is. It becomes clear that trade and democracy are not automatically linked. I participated this weekend at a nature conservation conference where the criticism was much sharper than what is usually heard in the Swedish debate. It was small farmers who saw the absurdity of being competed out by large farms without environmental considerations and that we in Sweden today produce only every other plate and send food long distance both as imports and exports. They felt that the liberalisation that has taken place and is still taking place could be seriously called into question if we were to achieve what is stated in Objective 2 of the UN Agenda 2030 on the elimination of hunger, the achievement of food security, the achievement of a better diet and the promotion of sustainable agriculture. Madam President, I would like The Left Party's reservation is about the dispute settlement system, which is contained in many international trade and investment agreements, but not all. It was set up after World War II to protect investors in trade agreements with nations that lack stable and functioning legal systems. ISDS protected companies against direct expropriation. Today ISDS has increasingly become a protection against indirect expropriation. It is therefore no longer a matter of protecting assets owned by companies, but of protecting their estimated profits. Thus, companies can sue states if they consider that national legislation prevents them and their ability to make profits. ISDS has thus become an effective means of preventing progressive legislation and, by extension, constitutes a direct threat to democracy. Since both EU Member States and their counterparts in several of the trade agreements currently being negotiated have stable and functioning legal systems, there is no reason to raise disputes in international courts, as can be done with the current system. It is unreasonable that trade agreements negotiated with states with functioning legal systems should contain ISDS clauses. Negotiations are now under way between the EU and Australia, New Zealand and Japan, for example, all of which have such functioning legal systems. I therefore believe that trade agreements negotiated with states with functioning legal systems should not contain ISDS clauses. In May, the so-called Singapore judgment came from the European Court of Justice. It was an advance ruling on the extent to which national parliaments, such as the Swedish Parliament, should be allowed to participate in saying theirs on trade agreements that the EU has negotiated. The judgment was a setback for the European Commission when it clearly stated that national parliaments have the right to decide on all trade agreements if they contain foreign investment other than direct investment and an investor-state dispute settlement mechanism. This means that we should not be able to circumvent the laws and regulations we have, but the European Commission must contact us and not try to circumvent us as a national parliament. Today's report says that Europe should be a strong voice for free and fair trade in the world. This can, among other things, lead to increased prosperity and promote sustainable development. ..................................................... The EU and Sweden are good at highlighting that trade should be free, but the question is whether it is so very fair. The fact that it leads to greater prosperity for all can really be discussed, and that it would lead to sustainable development socially, economically and environmentally, I strongly question. The report says that it should be better at highlighting the positive effects of free trade in order for those who are losers in free trade to understand it better. Perhaps the problem is precisely this: very actively sweeping the negative effects of free trade under the carpet. It is even clear, even in the EU's foundations, that it is never capital that is disadvantaged by free trade. It is always the worker who pays the price of being put against another worker in another country. It is also one of the building blocks that reinforces and spreads racism. It is not just us in the Swedish Parliament who are discussing this. Also, the famous magazine The Economist writes in its latest issue under the heading I believe that inequality is something that we need to be better at discussing in this House. We need to discuss inequality as a result of trade, taxes, welfare and the labour market. We need to think more about that. Large companies should not be allowed to dictate the conditions under which legislation should prevail in individual countries. I believe that trade policy should be changed in a more fair, supportive and environmentally conscious direction. Today, trade is not being conducted on fair terms, and the profits generated by trade are not being distributed fairly. Unfair trade conditions and unequal opportunities to participate in the world economy are one of the main reasons why our world remains unequal and that the gaps between and within countries in large parts of the world continue to grow. I am in favour of reservation 5 and would like to draw attention to the fact that the Left Party has a special opinion.
i-708a3df549660ac2-373	Madam President, I would like Now it's favorite in replay. Now we stand here again and talk about free trade. We are talking about large companies and investment protection, and we have completely different views on this issue. I listened extra carefully to Håkan Svenneling this time. I tried to listen if I heard anything positive about free trade. I do not know if anyone in this House did, I did not. It was a rapsody of the misery of free trade, the negative consequences, people who get sick and people who have less opportunity to influence their lives because of trade. I also noted that Håkan Svenneling questioned that the concepts of trade and democracy are interrelated. I would like to ask Håkan Svenneling something. There are two countries which have been isolated from world trade for a long time. One country is Cuba, and the other is North Korea. Does Håkan Svenneling of the Left Party believe that democracy in these two countries has developed well through the trade boycotts?
i-708a3df549660ac2-377	Madam President, I would like It was deliberately on my part, Mr Rothenberg, that I did not raise anything positive about trade, because you are doing so very well. You are clear that everything is positive, but this makes you miss what is negative. If you listen to this debate, you need to understand that there are two sides. Trade can certainly be good. There may be positive elements in it, and much of the prosperity we have in Sweden is based on trade. But there are also negative effects. We see that free trade advocates like you actively sweep away the negative consequences, worry very little about them and do not see how they contribute to the spread of racism throughout Europe. I think that is the big problem today, and the liberal project needs to think about it. How can you spread the wealth so that everyone gets a share of it? How can you talk about the negative consequences of free trade? And how can you get it to lead to positive development everywhere? This brings us to the issue of trade and democracy. As I was aware, there are plenty of countries that have a well-developed trade and are not democracies, and there are countries that are certainly not democracies but dictatorships, such as Cuba and North Korea. They do not have very extensive trade, but there are trade blockades. Trade can certainly be a means that can be used to achieve democracy in certain situations, but the problem is that it must be connected. For example, this lacks the government led today by social democrats and environmentalists – not by you and me, Hans Rothenberg – entirely tools for. It identifies dictatorships, even oily dictatorships, which lack a strategy to achieve democracy. Iran is an example of such a country. It was said that, following the Iran Nuclear Dismantling Agreement, trade would be developed in order for Iran to be kind. What has happened is to establish trade relations, and then Iran is developing nuclear weapons. Then you've really failed.
i-708a3df549660ac2-384	Madam President, I would like It is precisely this government that your left-wing party supports, Håkan Svenneling. You have supported the Red-Green Government in four budget proposals in a row, and yet here you are criticising the Social Democrats and the Green Party at the heart of their free trade approach. Would it not be a good time to consider whether support for this government should remain? Now there are not many months left of the term of office, but perhaps you should have thought about this a little earlier. When I listen to Håkan Svenneling's speech, I hear that there are problems with big companies. They can sue states; it's the axiom, the basic thesis. But why are states being sued, and why is it only large companies that are the examples? Investment protection is provided for companies entering another market to feel safe in the investment. These are mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, many of which come from Håkan Svenneling's home area in Värmland, which would like to create new jobs at home in Kil and the surrounding area. These companies must feel safe, and they must also have an investment agreement called good. Then it's not good enough just to look for negative effects– it's not better to limit. Today it is actually easier to trade arms and export them from Sweden than to export welfare services. If we are to talk about improving the world, Swedish expertise in welfare services would be a real blessing to be able to contribute and spread across the world. But that's where you put as a welfare enterprise hunter. This is fundamental: if you do not act, how can you talk to them? To travel a famous film on Christmas Eve: How can you make them understand if you don't talk to them?
i-708a3df549660ac2-389	Madam President, I would like If there is anything I would like, Mr Rothenberg, it is making it more difficult to export arms. Unfortunately, we do not really have the Moderates with us on that line, and this means that we in this House have not stopped, for example, arms exports to dictatorships. Investment protection is very much about saying that it is small businesses that benefit from it, but it is very clear that large companies have the resources to do so. There is no evidence that this will lead to more investment. There is a great variation in the agreements that the EU is negotiating now. In some trade agreements, it is clear that they want the dispute settlement mechanism, but in other agreements it is clearly not so important, probably not because of the EU but rather because of the counterpart they talk to. Latin America, which is one of the continents with the most lawsuits, is not interested in having a dispute settlement mechanism when they reach agreements with the EU. In other, much more liberal economies, one goes clearly and says that one should absolutely have a dispute settlement mechanism. There are two different approaches in the world. I note that we support the government but not their trade policy. Every time we come here and debate trade policy, it is clear that it is the Moderates and Hans Rothenberg who are behind the government's trade policy. This will be particularly clear on the day we are going to debate the CETA agreement with Canada in this House. I think we'll do that this spring. The fact that we support the government, even though they have such a bad trade policy, is that in the framework of the budget negotiations we have with the government, which is the body in which we support the government, we are reducing inequality in Sweden. Otherwise, we often vote against the Government's proposal. If you look at the fine graphs in the budget, you can see that those who get the most are those who belong to the lowest income groups, while those who belong to the richest income groups get less. It was exactly the opposite when Hans Rothenberg's moderates sat and ruled in the government. Then it was the rich who won in Sweden, and nothing could be done about this. But we see that capital is still being taxed too little and that the rich are withdrawing.
i-708a3df549660ac2-396	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for the opportunity to participate for the first time in a debate with the Committee on Economic Affairs. The subject is very dear and welcome to me and the Liberals. It is one of our really big future issues, namely the European Union, free trade, globalisation and international cooperation. I am thinking of the previous exchange of views. Let me start with a quote from the world's oldest blogger, Dagny Carlsson, 105. In a TV show – I think it was on TV4 – she was asked if it was better before, whereupon she answered with great emphasis: No, really not, it was a misery. We can all agree that it was not better before, not even the sooner the better. I do not know if Dagny is liberal, but for us liberals, increased trade relations and interdependent countries are a positive development that we have been pursuing from the beginning. This is a liberal signum. Trade between people has been on earth as long as we ourselves, and it has created development and prosperity. Millions of people have been lifted out of poverty and misery thanks to globalisation and trade. That is why we warmly welcome the fact that the European Commission highlights globalisation as one of the five discussion papers in the White Paper on the future of Europe, and I am pleased that we are discussing it today in this House. The Commission notes that globalisation and the related technological change are here to stay. The process is not something that can or should be stopped. Instead, development is likely to be even faster. And that's good, because right-handled globalisation has great potential. When we see today how populism and nationalism are back as political movements, it is particularly important for us who believe in openness to stand up for free trade and globalisation. For never before in human history have we seen such great economic and social improvements. The proportion of people living in extreme poverty has decreased, and although the population is increasing, the number of poor people, as well as child mortality, illiteracy and malnutrition have decreased. Globalisation helps us to spread the knowledge and technology that is being developed around the world so that everyone can benefit from it. Unfortunately, in spite of this positive development, many people feel that they are losers. It's not just black or white. When low-income countries become richer, discontent grows in the Western world and we can see ourselves as losers. But also an EU friend whom I must dare to see and admit that not everyone has been able to take part in growth. Some sectors and tasks have been competed out and replaced by low-wage countries or machinery. In Germany, criticism of the EU's free trade agreements is used to collect domestic political points, and even in Sweden there are opponents of globalisation, as we have heard, who are persistently opposed to greater transparency. Both to the right and to the left of us are people who live by building borders and not by the will to open them. The Commission rightly notes that the EU is still at an early stage of a transition whereby digitisation, robots, artificial intelligence, the internet and 3D printers will revolutionise the way in which they produce, work and consume. It is important here that Sweden and the EU are at the forefront. It is therefore also important to point out clearly the benefits of globalisation and to ensure that the EU is not only a Union of trade but also a Union that stands up for justice and that we ensure that agreements are fair in terms of both workers' conditions and the conditions of animals and nature. It is also important to ensure that the social inequalities that exist within the EU are combated, and that is why the social handshake that the EU Heads of Government have now decided is of great importance for our future. We, and particularly Liberals, need to respond to people's concerns. We need to demonstrate the benefits we have gained from centuries of international trade and transparency. It will therefore be important for the EU to innovate in strategic technology areas and to help workers acquire the right skills to adapt to new situations. Education and transition to other jobs can help those who are lagging behind and can help us all grow. As a country and as a Union, we all benefit from globalisation. Because globalisation is not a zero-sum game. Globalisation has a greater impact on us. We all benefit from an increased exchange of knowledge and from the rapid spread of new research findings around the world. Now more brains are helping to solve our challenges and to build on each other's knowledge. Madam President, I would like Liberals welcome the fact that the European Commission's discussion paper stresses the importance of countering protectionism and isolation policy, as closed borders make everyone losers regardless of the side of the border. Instead, we need to ensure that more people can benefit from an open world where the flow of goods, capital and services is increasing at a faster rate and prosperity is increasing. It in turn creates a common strength to safeguard peace and security, democracy and human rights and the environment through the forces of prosperity, which is crucial for global development. Madam President, I would like In doing so, I would like to express my support for reservation 2 of reasons and for adding the statement to the file.
i-708a3df549660ac2-409	Madam President, I would like Swedish foreign and development policy shall in all stages promote business freedom, free enterprise, functioning property rights and financial rules and institutions. That is the basis for economic and social development. Globalisation has major social consequences, mainly positive ones. Trade has created prosperity, as we have heard several speakers before me tell us, and has helped to lift millions of people out of poverty. Access to capital, innovation and skills has contributed to increased growth, not least in many developing countries. As a result, life expectancy has increased, more have access to healthcare and education, and women's rights and opportunities have been strengthened. Developments in not least many African countries are today examples of the positive social effects of globalisation. Compared to 20 to 30 years ago, we see a sharp decline in the number of people living in extreme poverty, partly due to the Millennium Goals. But the work must continue. We must help more people to have a good toolbox as well as good goals for their own countries and their own opportunities to develop. Madam President, I would like I brought you some props today. This is a small card that I received from industry during Almedalsveckan with a list of the UN's global sustainability goals. These are 17 objectives, and I can mention equality, reduction of inequality, the drinking water directive, decent working conditions, economic growth and so on. These are very good goals, and each country is supposed to have a strategy for achieving them. We Christian Democrats believe that this should permeate all public activities in the first place, so that they are forerunners in this work, but that all other organisations and companies should be encouraged to participate in the work to the extent relevant to their various activities. Madam President, I would like Globalisation affects almost all aspects of today's societies. The exchange and flow of everything from people and goods to energy and capital is increasing and accelerating. It creates new conditions primarily for us humans, because we are not as different as we used to be. It was a story in some newspaper-- I don't remember which--just a few days ago about us getting dumber and dumber. It's kind of interesting. Not everything was better before, we heard here earlier. No, I may not think that the knowledge or intelligence was greater in the past, but technology development does not always make us smarter, but we also become lazier when it comes to searching for the information we need. Especially reading development in children has been affected by this. There are things for us people that must also be counted in global development and seen as risks or dangers to humanity, not least when we talk about these sustainability goals. Increasingly integrated economies are also becoming more knowledge-intensive. We will need more education to enter the labour market, and we need to learn throughout our lives. Then we'll come back to pretty basic things. The right to education and training throughout life is needed in all countries around the world. Here I am afraid that we will see an ever-increasing knowledge gap between the developed countries and the countries that are still at the development stage. Globalisation, for me as a Christian Democrat, is not least about bringing the most vulnerable people with us – all those who are currently unable to take part in the fantastic development that we have seen in the last century or are in the middle of and have not had enough of. It is interesting to see that many of the world's leaders seem to believe that protectionism and the isolation of just one's own country would be the way to success. It never was. Never, ever. Madam President, I would like Today I have additional props. I like shoes. And shoes are produced all over the world. The shoes I'm wearing today are of a special brand. It almost doesn't even feel politically correct to wear these shoes today. For many, they are almost a symbol of precisely restricting trade freedom, competition neutrality and other countries between them, which should be self-evident. What brand is it? You may not want to talk about brands in Parliament's pulpit, but I can say that it can be linked to a close relative of the American President. What is interesting is that we are talking about one of the world's largest countries and one of the most important political leaders. But when you discuss trade, freedom of trade and competition neutrality, you get a different picture of that country, not least in terms of trade agreements, TTIP and so on. If we are to talk about it in an EU context, the whole of European cooperation came about because a coal and steel union was created. You didn't want war. It was clear. And what enabled one to fight with one another? Yes, it was the need for coal and steel. I think it is important to bring it forward, including in this discussion. It is about the further development of the European Union. Let us not forget the basis of that cooperation! We can have different political views on many issues with regard to the European Union. But the foundation is important. It is about trade between countries, about an internal market that must work for us citizens of the European Union. There is the most important thing about globalisation. Nor can Europe be isolated from the rest of the world, but we should extend our hands to those outside who need help.
i-708a3df549660ac2-423	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a small, export-dependent country. We have a long history of producing goods and services, perhaps especially goods, which we export to other countries. We also have great ambitions, not least when it comes to wanting to produce goods and services high up the value chain. We have invested in innovation, research, development and technology development and made sure that we are always at the forefront of what we produce. We invest in the conversion of industries, companies and individuals. We have high ambitions in terms of education, skills development and so on. It's connected. Swedish companies that have highly innovative content in their products or services need a larger market than just Sweden. You need access to a global market. This applies to large but also to small companies. There is talk, for example, of the phenomenon of bon global. We therefore have a not insignificant proportion of companies that need direct access to a larger market than the Swedish one from day one when they are going to produce a product or service that is going to be placed on a market. I therefore welcome the Commission's discussion paper on globalisation. This is an important issue, for Sweden and for Swedish growth. We have built a business policy, an education policy and an innovation policy on being constantly at the forefront and on the need for this asset. It is not least important for what it creates for Sweden and the Swedish population, namely prosperity. Globalisation is under way. And I don't think we can or should stop it, but we should embrace it. It contains an enormous amount of positive things. It means the possibility of increased prosperity, not only in Sweden but in the world. And it means that we can expand and create better conditions for democracy. The fact that goods and services can move is fundamentally positive. But it also presents challenges. In many places around the world, we can see that the growth generated by trade is unevenly distributed. This is where the discussion paper becomes important. It is about the realization that politics makes a difference. Despite the fact that it supports development and thinks it is good, that it basically creates something good – good conditions and growth – it does not mean that politics does not matter. Politics must be an important tool to ensure that the effect is the desired one. In this case, it is about increased but also fair growth. It is about growth that benefits all people – in Sweden, in the EU and in the world. It's not done by itself. This means that, from my point of view, free trade and freedom of movement should be free. That's not to say it should be unregulated. Of course, we should use the tools that policy allows us to ensure that trade is regulated, that it is done in a sustainable way and that it is shared by everyone. I think a lot of people here have been naive. I also believe that it underestimates the importance of what happens when trade is not regulated and does not benefit everyone when it does not gain legitimacy. Perhaps that is the biggest problem we are facing on these issues today. By not making full use of the tools we own ourselves, where we decide what they should be and how they should be used, we risk undermining legitimacy. When people feel that globalisation and trade create growth and prosperity, but for someone else and not for ourselves, when you experience yourself as losers in such a system, it triggers frightening forces. Then Donald Trump can win the election in the United States against all odds. When people or parts of movements are given priority to interpret what it means and putting words on something that everyone may not talk about, something is created quite unpleasant. It will create the conditions for us to stand against them. It is not something we want to see, not anywhere in the world, not in Europe and not in Sweden. Then we'll have Brexit. Against all odds, against what everyone thought, they voted to leave something that has demonstrably created growth for Britain. I do not think any of those who voted in favour of Brexit think that Britain has become poorer because it has been in the European Union, or that Britain has lost as a country to join the European Union. On the other hand, many people wonder where all the good that has become, all the growth that has come from cooperation, has gone and why it has not benefited them. Once again, we were put against them. Too many felt more secure in shrinking borders, limiting what is around them, and finding security in something exclusive rather than something inclusive. This must be taken seriously by all of us politicians. It's a phenomenon that's happened in the United States. It is a phenomenon that has happened in Britain. It is easy to say that support for Europe is great in Sweden, and that we do not need to worry. I don't think it's that simple. Right now we can see a movement all over the world that is protectionist. There are very strong forces playing on us and them, and we must take that seriously. Globalisation, digitalisation, technology development, innovation, open borders, the free movement of goods and services are by far the best basis for growth. But it will not be enough if we do not constantly work to see that growth is distributed fairly. That is why this discussion is both important and good. I am pleased that the EU is raising it as such a clear basis for discussion. These actions have described very well all the opportunities offered by globalisation. The threats and challenges of globalisation that need to be addressed reasonably have also been described. When it comes to trade and investment, it is incredibly important that it is fair and sustainable and that it is perceived as such. We need modern trade agreements and transparent processes for people to understand how trade agreements come about, what they contain, long-term conditions and so on. This also applies to the dispute settlement mechanism. It has been and is strongly debated. It's not a new phenomenon. But modern dispute resolution mechanisms are needed in the same way as modern trade agreements are needed. It should be clear, transparent and simple rules of play. We also need to keep abreast of the debate on what is European competence and what is national competence. It is sometimes perceived as a threat by citizens. One is afraid that the power that one wants nationally will be moved from what one feels to be close and effective to something far away and untouchable. That is why we in this House and in our committee have always been careful to stress the importance of clearly distinguishing between what is best done at European level and what is best done in Sweden, in this House. Nor do I believe that globalisation can be discussed just from a European perspective. The questions are not separate, they are linked. Much of what needs to be done to create good conditions for good development must also be done nationally. It is not a debate for the sake of the debate this time. When it comes to issues such as taxation, for example, how do we ensure that prosperity is shared equally? How do you ensure that the whole country and all parts of a country will live and function? The work from the Swedish perspective must be driven hard nationally and in the EU. Therefore, I am particularly pleased that this week we took home a big profit from a Swedish perspective. In fact, Ylva Johansson managed to bring home the Posting of Workers Directive in a way that makes it clear that we should not compete with harsh conditions or low wages in the guise of wanting trade. It was an important victory for Sweden. It is a good thing to conclude my speech by showing an example that politics can actually make a difference. Having said that, I would like to endorse the committee's proposal in its opinion and note that this report will be added to the dossier.
i-708a3df549660ac2-445	Madam President, I would like I can say that this was a very interesting post by Jennie Nilsson. She noted a lot of interesting things. But it also raises some questions. It is good that Jennie Nilsson says that politics plays a role and that you want some kind of fair growth. You can discuss exactly what it is, but it is good that there is a clear example of justice. It is a question of creating legitimacy for the policies being pursued. It is also very good that Jennie Nilsson lifts up that we should not end up in a us-against-them thinking or we-against-them thinking. When you listen to Jennie Nilsson you think about how Social Democracy in Sweden and also in Europe thinks. It is clear that the Social Democrats have created an axis around a liberal project which makes it clear that free trade is the way forward. All kinds of proposals have been welcomed. Jennie Nilsson himself mentioned the victory, which is nevertheless a victory, with a social protocol that brings a social pillar into European policy. But that could have been demanded sooner. Even when the Treaty of Lisbon was ratified, there was a proposal from the Social Democrats to demand it in order to sign the Treaty of Lisbon. Then the Swedish Social Democrats said no, and now they have to repair it afterwards, almost ten years later. Right now there is a picture on the internet where Stefan Löfven stands a bit cocky. It says: We are in the middle of Swedish politics. We are one party for many, not just for a few. Jonas Sjöstedt was quite quick out and made a parody in the picture where it said: We are on the left in Swedish politics. Only then can one conduct a policy for many, not for a few. That's a bit of what you land in when you hear Jennie Nilsson here. Why are you so interested in going right? You are cooperating with centre parties and liberals when it is so obvious that it is the kind of policy that does not see the reverse of trade policy.
i-2rdmzfz4ywUngnTxyY3yZw	Madam President, I would like Thank you so much for coming, Håkan Svenneling! I think the middle position is a very good position to take. From my perspective, the Social Democrats have always been much in the middle precisely because we affirm what is growth-creating – in this case free trade – while we have a clear agenda for how to divide growth. We have a sense of justice, a sense of sustainability and so on. But if you don't have a growing cake, you don't have much to distribute either. That is why, in this context, I am pleased to be on the right of Svenneling, at least in this debate.
i-708a3df549660ac2-452	Madam President, I would like After all, S. would like politics to spin around the Social Democrats. It's been obvious for a long time. Then you might have the world picture that you're in the middle when politics spins that way. The problem is that there are constantly articles and reports from Europe about how social democratic parties fall apart or lose an extreme number of seats and seats in Parliament. Instead, it will be the guys over there, the racists, who take their place in different parliaments, now most recently in Austria. The problem is that you are not clear about what you want and how to create justice. Instead, we are landing in a liberal project where we do not see where fair growth is. It will be an unclear party that says that it wants a modern dispute resolution, while it is clear that it is big business that will benefit from the dispute resolution mechanism. It is a party whose Minister for Trade travels to Saudi Arabia and Iran while saying that one should have a feminist foreign policy. It is clear that somewhere it boils down to people asking themselves where the Social Democracy is going. Right now in Sweden there are ten months left before the elections. When I hear Jennie Nilsson talking about fair growth and that you need to listen to the negative effects, I can't see if she's heading towards the middle or if she's heading left. That is the big question mark in this debate. You worry a lot, but in political action you step right out. There will always be a difference between right and left in Swedish politics. There needs to be a line of conflict, but the Social Democrats cannot erase ideological differences and believe that you can get what is on the left if you cooperate on the right.
i-708a3df549660ac2-457	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Håkan Svenneling! I did not get a direct question, but it was rather a statement. It is no wonder that the Social Democrats want everything to spin around S, that it wants all parties, that everything should spin around them. What is interesting is that everyone else – not least Håkan Svenneling – in some sense relates to this as if it were a truth, which in itself would be grateful. Of course, I do not share the analysis that Håkan Svenneling is doing. I believe that one of the major success factors that Sweden has had with a long social democratic rule is that we have managed to balance between the right and the left, if you make it that kind of question. I do not think that the positioning at the moment is about taking a clear position in one direction or the other, but about taking a clear position for something that is forward-looking. What distinguishes Swedish politics in the right – left – scale, if you are going to make an ideological exposé about this, is the view of whether growth is in contrast to, for example, justice. We have never considered it to be, but have pursued factors that create growth. But we have not done so unreservedly, but at the same time have always believed in politics, which is perhaps the greatest weakness in parts of the bourgeois alliance, as I see it. You do not believe in politics and in the ability of politics to deal with things that you do not want with the growth that you create. Nor do I and the Social Democrats believe in the way in which the Left wants to fix the political conditions by subjecting, for example, the Treaty of Lisbon or other conditions in the negotiating situation and thus risk leaving itself out. We have always been anxious to be progressive, make sure that we are at the negotiating table and have a toolbox to move matters forward. We will continue to do so.
i-708a3df549660ac2-463	Madam President, I would like First of all, we can see that many have been better off. Prosperity is spreading, and life expectancy is increasing while child mortality is decreasing in the world. In material terms, many people in what has previously been described as developing countries are rising out of poverty. I think it is important that we include this in the debate. At the same time, we are facing new challenges in the form of over-exploited natural resources and environmental threats. Starvation and oppression are still a reality for many. Most of the world's poor and most vulnerable are women and children. It is also those most affected by natural disasters and armed conflicts. The Green Movement and the Green Party always strive to put a global perspective on politics. The Green Party is striving for a world in balance, where solidarity and respect for human rights are combined with sustainable development and climate justice across the globe. Within the Green Movement there is broad support for the view that we need to strengthen international cooperation on the environment, peace and development while at the same time finding ways to strengthen inclusive global economic development. We are very much in favour of international cooperation. We see Europe as part of a world of democracies where people move freely across borders and where peoples and countries act and cooperate with each other. We are in favour of intergovernmental cooperation where countries voluntarily participate in decisions. There are strong reasons for supranational decisions on issues of a global nature. This applies in particular to issues that are cross-border, not least environmental issues and fundamental human rights. This is something that is clearly highlighted in the discussion paper. We believe that international trade increases the opportunity for global development. That is a fundamental position for us. More trade generally means more investment, stronger competitiveness and better living standards. Closer trade contacts contribute to technology transfer from rich to poor countries, and this is a key if we are to cope with climate change. The Green Party wants Sweden to play an active and constructive role in international cooperation by acting and cooperating with our surrounding world. Independent and democratic participation, both globally and locally, is the basis of the intergovernmental cooperation advocated by the Green Party. Free trade and cooperation agreements are a good basis for this. We are in favour of a better trade policy that takes account of social, economic and environmental aspects. As I mentioned earlier, this is also a basis for us to be better able to deal with the technological developments that will be required when we deal with climate change. This applies, of course, to both emission reductions and how we are to adapt to the climate change that is already taking place. We welcome the Commission's focus on the fact that cross-border challenges, such as climate change and inclusive economic development, are best addressed at European level. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that EU cooperation must continue to develop and improve in a way that respects the principle of subsidiarity so that Member States' national budgetary, fiscal, labour market and social competences are not eroded. This is particularly important in these times of Brexit and other scepticism towards EU cooperation. We very much welcome the fact that the Commission specifically highlights Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development as a common reference point on how future efforts should be prioritised in order to best benefit economic development, the planet and people around the world, especially in developing countries. Fair trade has been given a more prominent role in the Commission's new trade strategy than in previous trade strategies, which is an important step in the right direction. The fact that the Swedish policy for global development states that all political decisions must take into account human rights, people's democratic participation, the fight against poverty and environmental sustainability is very important to us. I would also like to stress the importance of free trade agreements not leading to reduced levels of health, the environment, animal welfare and safety. Free trade agreements must not undermine social, trade union and economic rights in Sweden or the EU. In Sweden there has long been broad support in the Riksdag for the view that free trade is fundamentally a positive thing that can lead to increased prosperity. It is therefore an important principle to protect. For this reason, however, when listening to this debate and reading the background, it is strange and remarkable that the opposition does not mention in its reservations anything about the sustainability objectives of Agenda 2030 or about decent working conditions and inclusive economic development. I had hoped to find a common line there too, because these are, in fact, issues that affect us all and are directly related to each other in a global and trade policy context. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal to add the opinion to the file.
i-708a3df549660ac2-477	Madam President, I would like Today, as many have already said, we are debating NU8 Review of the Commission's discussion paper on globalisation. My party colleague, Johan Nissinen, has already asked for our motivational reservation No 1, which I would like to agree with. Madam President, I would like We in the Swedish Democrats stand for another Europe. Our vision is to restore a Europe of diversity, a Europe of free independent nation states, in which we all share our common heritage and give our children all the good that we have received from our ancestors. Our vision of Europe preserves and thrives the specificity and culture of the nations. We thus reject utopian fantasies about a multicultural world without borders and a collection of guardians in distant lands who will decide the fate of our people on more and more issues. Globalisation brings the world's countries closer together, not least through trade and global value chains. In the era of globalisation, it is becoming increasingly important to protect one's own. The Swedes have but one land on this earth. What I want to be extremely clear, however, is that we Swedish democrats want to protect the single market in Europe. With this, we also accept certain supranational elements. A number of rules and institutions would have to remain or be replaced in our version of Europe as well. I believe, for example, that there is a need for an arbitration panel on trade-related issues as well as clear regulations for state aid. There may be very good reasons for creating or maintaining institutions that set common standards, such as the Agency. Of course, there are more things like this. Patent and intellectual property are also issues on which we need to cooperate for free trade reasons. Madam President, I would like However, I firmly believe that a free trade union does not need a parliament or a flag, nor structural funds and, in principle, no budget. Nor is there a need for a single currency, although from my point of view, of course, the nations that want it are free to obtain it. Similarly, countries wishing to cooperate, for example, on energy security can do so. But why force 28 countries into a rigid regulatory framework for misbehavior by a few countries? It is true that countries can cooperate on cross-border crime, environmental issues, migration and border protection. But why should all this be linked to the free trade union and the single market? To this I would like to draw a small anecdote. It concerns the Structural Funds. I visited a company at home in my own party district, Skaraborg. The company manufactures furniture. It has been built up during the year is 100 years and is today the leader in its niche. In three years, the EU pumped in money and funded a competitor of this company. 50% of the investment was paid, or even more than that, and it built up an equally competitive production capacity in a country not very far from us. It can never be right for us to pay for competition. As everyone knows, we are paying around 20 billion a year or something like that in the form of a net levy to the EU – to finance our own destruction, if you have to tighten it a little bit. I find it hard to understand why you other parties think you need guardians who decide everything between heaven and earth for you. Don't you trust your own and the Swedish people's judgment? Why do you want leaders that the Swedish people have not chosen and cannot remove to bear responsibility for the fate of our nation? No, let us instead aim for a free Europe of democratic independent nation states, in which today's Europe is replaced by a pure free trade union in accordance with the Commission's second scenario in its White Paper on the future of Europe. I note that no one has yet requested a reply. I would have liked to have spoken a little with the Moderate Hans Rothenberg, who previously took a line on my colleague Johan Nissinen. It feels a little strange: we Swedish democrats have been pursuing a slightly different line on migration issues, free movement and such things for about seven years. Most recently, the Moderates voted in favour of a national begging ban, and they now claim to stand for a tight migration policy. But Rothenberg lives in the old, in Reinfeldt's Moderates, and attacks with that rhetoric the Swedish Democrats. My question to Rothenberg is, didn't you get a memo?
i-708a3df549660ac2-488	Madam President, I would like After this adrenalinelike invitation to debate, I throw back the glove. I have now heard Josef Fransson talk about a lot of misery. We should have free trade, but we should not have any structures that make free trade easier. Out of misgivings, we should not pay money for others to compete with us. But this is the reciprocity that the Swedish Democrats have not understood. The reciprocity of the Swedish Democrats is when you are mutual with yourself and your own interests and do not care about anyone else. In this debate, I have taken the lines of three people representing two parties, the Left and the Swedish Democrats. There are reasons for this – on the one hand you have reserved, and on the other hand you are the ones who stand for the extremes. You want the good but never give anything to get something good. I will not go into every detail that Josef Fransson has poured out. But there was one thing I was a little perplexed about and would like to have an explanation for. Josef Fransson said that the Swedish Democrats want to recreate a Europe. What Europe? Is it Europe before 1989 – when the wall fell – when half of Europe was weighed under Communist yoke? Is it Europe before 1945, which was weighed under the yoke of fascism? Is that the 19th century Prussian Europe? Is it Europe in Viking times? What Europe does Josef Fransson want to recreate?
i-708a3df549660ac2-492	Madam President, I would like It is not uncommon to get this childish rhetoric thrown away from Hans Rothenberg. I do not think there is any doubt whatsoever that Mr Rothenberg very well understands what I mean. Europe has certainly had a very long and bloody history in many epochs. In the end, however, it led to, for example, the fall of the Berlin Wall and the fact that we have a wide range of national states in Europe with specific characteristics and cultures worth preserving. Mrs Rothenberg seems to me to be an internationalist who wants to be similar to the bureaucrats down in the EU, but he will have to correct me if I am wrong. I think this is just a childish attack. I believe that Mr Rothenberg knows very well what I mean by the fact that we want to re-create a Europe of independent nation states. I don't know how to misunderstand that.
i-708a3df549660ac2-494	Madam President, I would like Josef Fransson begged for a reply. When he gets the line, it's an excuse to send me words of impoverishment as a debater instead of criticizing the party and what I represent. It was more important to say that Hans Rothenberg is childish. If you're being really childish, you can say, whoever said it was. In fact, I wonder what kind of Europe Josef Fransson wants to recreate. It was not a childish question, but a serious question. If any continent has a bloody past, with dictatorships, oppression and extermination, it is Europe. This applies not only to Jews but to many peoples, and it is still going on in Europe and its vicinity. Instead, Josef Fransson chooses to go after an individual member. We can do that in other contexts where television is not broadcast – it might be more appetizing to take such a fight. But in his eagerness to do this, Josef Fransson obscures his own ideas and thoughts and does not want to give answers. Europe is a continent of nation states. The EU is so far composed of 28 nation states, which have their own peculiarities and peculiarities. Nothing really prevents them from developing these peculiarities. Go around Europe and visit other countries and see that there are special features! Take the opportunity to do this while there is still freedom of movement for people! Take the opportunity to go to Britain and see that there is free movement there! I still wonder what Europe it is Josef Fransson longs for. Is it a future Europe under another oppression?
i-708a3df549660ac2-499	Madam President, I would like Again, what I asked for in my speech and in the turn of the line is a Europe of independent nation states in which each nation determines its own destiny. Why should we not be able to do this in Sweden? Why do we need guardians down in Brussels who make the decisions for us, Hans Rothenberg? Aren't you and me and our constituents wise enough to decide what energy policy we should have, what climate policy we should have and whether we should have one with the other? We have a lively debate in Sweden. We do not need socialist bureaucrats down in Brussels to tell us this. There is talk of peace in Europe. Europe may be slightly worse than some others. But the same problems exist well in Asia, the former Soviet Union and things that may even exceed Europe's bloodiness or at least correspond to it. I do not believe that it was the European Union that brought peace to Europe. On the other hand, I buy directly from the fact that trade is something that binds countries together. I mean it's quite enough. It was some liberal debater who at some point said that it never happened in the history of the world that one democratic state has attacked another democratic state. I don't know if that's exactly 100% true. I'm afraid to say. But surely they are democratic states in Europe.
