i-94083c28b6fa802a-3	Mr President, I would like to We shall begin this day by debating the Social Affairs Committee's report No 8, Support for people with disabilities. It is a report which deals with some 70 requests from the general period of exercise, and it is a report which contains an announcement to the government. This is about people who are in many ways vulnerable. They are because they need the support and help of others to live a life like others. It is an area where Sweden has high ambitions and should have high ambitions. A welfare society that has so much resources should also be assessed on the basis of how those resources come to those who have the greatest needs. This report contains many different proposals that highlight shortcomings in the high ambitions that we have. There are shortcomings which mean that the person who needs the support of society does not actually receive it fully. Mr President, I would like to I would like to start with the announcement contained in the report. We all have, I believe, some ambition that anyone in need of support should still have a great influence on how everyday life works. When we adopted legislation that will give the person in need of personal assistance the opportunity to control how the assistance should be designed, the idea from the beginning was that you should have a great influence. That is why the legislation was designed as it did. You should be able to hand-pick the people who should be there in your life and do what you can with your own abilities not do. It's about everyday things that we when we're healthy and have our functions don't really think about it being done all the time, things that are the most intimate, for example, to go to the toilet. In order for you to have this opportunity to decide for yourself, it is important that there is freedom of choice. Freedom of choice exists in our legislation, but in practice it does not always work. That is what we in the alliance parties have pointed out. In practice, there are situations where you need assistance and get it done by the municipality, and then you cannot choose the performer. The reason is that municipalities often add a lower compensation to the person who will perform the assistance than the lump sum available when you have the assistance from the Social Insurance Agency. The amount is set at such a low level that there is no one to be able to get the business going. This also eliminates freedom of choice. I am therefore pleased that a majority in the committee has now been able to agree on an announcement that this freedom of choice will also work in practice and that the government must take responsibility for ensuring that it does. We Christian Democrats have a number of other issues that we highlight among these motions. It is about the two-year trials that are being carried out, and we agree with a reservation on this. When the situation does not actually change, and although there should always be hope that you are getting better, there will be no difference from time to time, many people today are still afraid. For the two-year trial, you are afraid that there will be a deterioration and that someone else will make a judgment that you do not need the help you have today. It is also a burden on the resources available to make a thorough and thorough assessment of who is in need of support if new assessments are also to be made every two years for people for whom we know there will be no difference or improvement. We believe that this should be reviewed. We also see that there are serious reasons to look at the amounts given to those who have the greatest needs. All of this concerns people with a great need for social support, but in the case of those who have the greatest needs, there is differentiation today. We also see that it may not really work and that some do not get the needs covered. It costs too much. This is something that affects all the performers, whether it is a private performer or whether it is the municipality that is the performer. If the actual cost exceeds the compensation paid, it will be a problem that risks affecting them in the long run with the greatest needs. We have a joint reservation from the alliance parties on this, and I can say right now that this is the one I am calling for, that is, Amendment No 15. In this context, too, when we talk about the people who are the most vulnerable, I would like to come back to the issues that are perhaps the most urgent right now in terms of the support that we provide in society: that there are so many people who today do not have their needs met, that there are withdrawals and cuts and that statistics that we received from the Social Insurance Agency just a few weeks ago show that it has now become increasingly difficult to actually get assistance granted to the Social Insurance Agency. If we go back only a few years, we can see that of those who applied for personal assistance – assistance compensation via Försäkringskassan – about 80 percent of those who applied for a yes. The share of applicants has not been significantly affected in recent years, but gradually the share of applicants granted has fallen. This last year has seen a drastic change. In 2016, 80 per cent were rejected. Only 20% of applicants are therefore granted assistance. Just a few minutes after I saw those figures, I took the opportunity to ask the Prime Minister a question about this. I can understand that the Prime Minister is not fully aware of all the figures, but it was pointed out that there is a greater chance that you will have your application granted if you apply again. I have tried to get such figures from Försäkringskassan but cannot see it for 2016. It is also a problem if we have a legal system that says that if you are looking for you once there is little chance that you will get yes, but if you are looking again you increase the chance that you get yes. Then it is not a legal test in the first line. If that is what the Prime Minister pointed out, it is worrying, and I hope that the government will do everything it can to correct this situation, in other words that you do not get a fair trial for the first time, but risk being rejected just because it was the first time you were looking for it, but if you are in a need enough, you might look again, and perhaps there will be a more thorough examination. I hope that's not the case. We have seen some trends in the past in figures showing such an indication, but to a large extent that is worrying. What the Prime Minister may have actually referred to may be that it is not a majority that is rejected in the event of a review, that is, in the two-year assessment. Yes, but it is well too well that not more than half of those who previously have an assessed need are suddenly judged not to have it at all. That, of course, should not be the case either. And there is no doubt about that. I am concerned that today we have a situation in which many get rid of the support that has previously been deemed necessary. You get a reduction in the number of hours and are therefore judged to have a smaller need. But the new thing also worries me, that only 20% are granted when they apply – despite the fact that there has been no big difference. It's one thing if it's a whole new category of people who are looking for, who don't have the assessed needs at all. But nothing in the evidence shows that that would be the reason, that it is new applicants and that it would be unwieldy applications. There are no such indications at all. When the committee for the preparation of the matter had a hearing, the Social Insurance Agency clearly said that it does not know exactly what this development is due to. But even more worrying is that we do not know what happens to those who do not have their needs met by the assistance allowance. The fact that the present government does not take responsibility for this is a major problem for our welfare country.
i-Pcka2GyvDcnjXiCv9upTpj	Mr President, I would like to Good morning, others! Today we are debating a large area. This is about support for people with disabilities. As in previous debates that I have been involved in, much is about LSS, the law on support and service for certain disabled people. LSS is an important right law. It represents a reform of freedom for many. The law has revolutionized everyday life, in a positive sense, for people with disabilities. But the application of the law has also been lined with shortcomings and challenges. In particular, we already saw in 2006 and 2009 a number of precedents that have led to a change in the application of the law. Mr President, I would like to The debate has been rather tough at times over the past year. I would therefore like to emphasise in this House that the government and the Social Democratic Party are committed to the reform of the LSS. We are behind the intentions of this. I would like to quote the decision taken by the Party Congress last week: The intentions behind the LSS legislation shall apply. For many people with a disability, the right to assistance and other contributions within the LSS means that they can live an independent life. Discrimination against persons with disabilities shall cease. Accessibility should be improved. Working and being a parent should also be possible for those who have children with disabilities. ..................................................... In order for everyday life to work, it is much more than just LSS that matters. Sometimes it sounds like LSS is the only support society can offer. As I said, LSS naturally provides basic support for you to have a functional everyday life. However, as far as our whole social policy approach is concerned, I think we need to look much more at universal solutions. For us to achieve sustainable and sustainable solutions, there must be much better cooperation between, for example, the labour market, school, care and health care. Today, many people with functional variations are being squeezed or run-off in various activities. It is gratifying that the government is now working on this very line, introducing general solutions and providing decentralised decisions in the activities. For example, the employment agency is undergoing quite a major restructuring. You have to work much more with overall solutions, much more with the local community and have a much larger mandate. Such measures will, of course, also improve for people with disabilities. The government has also contributed and will provide a lot of resources in welfare and strengthen educational opportunities. It benefits everyone, including the disabled group. Pay subsidies are also being increased, among other things, to make it easier to get a job. Living with a disability poses challenges in life and for relatives. What has improved in recent years is the availability of the media. The accessibility of public transport has increased. The level of education has also increased to some extent. In a ten-year perspective, however, we can unfortunately see that as a group people with disabilities generally have less living conditions and less opportunity to participate in society than the rest of the population. Women generally have worse living conditions. The level of education is lower, although it has improved. As far as job opportunities are concerned, 63% of people with disabilities are occupational. This compares with 84 per cent of the rest of the population. Economic conditions are also worse. While freedom of choice and individual efforts are important, they do not solve all the challenges. We need to see more of the general than the individual. Disability policy is based, among other things, on the UN Convention and on human rights. We shall have a society in which everyone has the opportunity to participate, just as we in this House do. Mr President, I would like to Since most of the movements are about LSS, I intend to focus on it in the rest of my speech. The aim of the ten actions under the LSS shall be to promote people's equality in living conditions and full participation in society. The Social Insurance Agency's report shows that around 16 000 people currently have state assistance payments. That figure has been more or less constant for ten years. Over the last ten years, the cost of assistance compensation has increased by 1.3 billion per year. This is mainly explained by an increased number of hours. In total, the LSS reform costs approximately SEK 30 billion annually. However, just as Emma Henriksson referred to, we see a change in 2016. What I can read from Försäkringskassan's report is that last year there was a 3% reduction in assistance recipients. You also see an hourly development that seems to be decreasing. Unfortunately, I have not been able to take note of the other figures. According to Försäkringskassan, the increase in costs is due to the emergence of standards and case law since 2006. It has nothing to do with how the government has acted or not. The government has not changed a comma in the legislation. This has been known, even during the alliance period. So we need, each one of us, to think about and examine ourselves about what we could have done or what we should do. Now there's a huge investigation into the entire LSS. It was established in May 2006 and is due to be completed by 2018. The aim is to create long-term sustainable development and to achieve more effective efforts to promote equality in living conditions and full participation in society. The reasons for the review include what has emerged, that there is a lack of intervention, a lack of assessment, a lack of link between daily activities and job opportunities and so on. Hopefully, if we agree, many of the proposals for measures that the claims suggest will be resolved through the investigation. However, this legislation has been subject to review quite a few times over the last ten years, but unfortunately measures have not been taken at that time. In parallel, other investigations are also ongoing, such as the Welfare Investigation, which in some form will also affect LSS. Mr President, I would like to Finally, the government has taken further action. Only a few months ago, the regulations were changed to Försäkringskassan. It has commissioned Försäkringskassan and the National Board of Health and Welfare to analyse and also propose changes resulting from changes in case law. In the report, there is an announcement to the government under paragraph 1 on freedom of choice, and I would like to report that we have reservations about it. Our written reservation states that when it comes to freedom of choice in welfare, we consider it valuable that the individual should be able to choose the performer. I would like to emphasise that the law today gives full support to choosing its own help. We do not intend to change this case law. We think the announcement is a bit of a game for the gallery. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-46	Mr President, I would like to Four or five years ago, the debate in this area was about as bitter, although it was then another minister. Those who were then upset realize that the reasons for being upset are hugely greater now. At the time it was not thought that progress was progressing fast enough. Today, the trend is going backwards. It is trying to give the impression that the government has done nothing that could have put the country in this situation because it has not changed the legislation. No, the government does not, it is the parliament that changes the legislation. But that is the problem. The government is making sure that the stealth route worsens for those who are some of the country's most vulnerable. Mr President, I would like to I have read in Försäkringskassan's latest forecast for operations from 2017 onwards. On p. 31, the forecast for 2017 compares with the latest forecast. In Försäkringskassan's regulation letter for 2016 they said: Break the number of hours! Make sure to stop the cost increases when it comes to LSS! It's had an effect. From one forecast to the next forecast, costs have been reduced by half a billion, and this has been achieved by the heavy braking of the LSS. My question to Mikael Dahlqvist, who represents the government parties here today, is: Are you not concerned? Yesterday we heard the Minister of Finance say: Never before have so few been dependent on the support of society. No, because you have withdrawn the support of society. Is it something to be proud of or is it something to be worried about?
i-RziSAcizNwXUJGKmaZScNq	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Emma Henriksson, for your question! I share your concerns and those of many. As I said in my speech, this development began in 2006. Then we see that it decreases with assistance hours and reception. But I'm not as sure as you, Emma Henriksson, of what it depends. Rather, I believe that it is due to precedents, i.e. the amended case-law of the Supreme Administrative Court. It started back in 2006 and went on throughout the entire period of alliance government. What has been said earlier in the debate between opposition and majority, that is what those who have been involved in referring to. But let me just say: let's see what we can do now. Mr President, I would like to The Government, with Minister for Social Affairs Åsa Regnér at the head, has now taken a number of measures to show what this is due to and propose legislative changes to the Riksdag. Let us calmly analyse and think about how this can be handled and what the consequences are. Then I hope and believe that we can find a common solution. I have a question for you, Emma Henriksson. You're clear in your reservation, but I'm still a little puzzled. The legislation today provides support for the right to choose the performers. Then I wonder what the purpose of your joint reservation is.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-55	Mr President, I would like to I thought the lines were for me to ask questions. However, I have no objection to defending the position of the majority of the committee. So it is not a reservation. We want it not to work just according to the letter of the law. We want it to work in people's reality. This is not a problem everywhere, but it is a major problem for the people who are affected, who in practice do not have the opportunity to make use of the right to choose the performers provided for in the legislation. When legislation does not work in practice, we have a responsibility to make it work. Mr President, I would like to I want to go back to the questions I asked Mikael Dahlqvist. Since you took over government power, the situation has deteriorated considerably month after month, and we can follow that trend. In my speech, I mentioned that 80% are now being refused new applications. If that figure is broken down in six months, it can be seen that the first half of the year was 78 per cent that was rejected. The second half of 2016 was 82 per cent rejected. This trend continues at a pace which makes it more difficult to obtain personal assistance on a day-by-day basis as we debate this issue in this House. Yes, the government has set up an investigation to be completed in 2018, but it does not focus on the changes that have taken place because the court has given preliminary rulings. Several years later, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has changed its application. The situation is acute, and the government should do something now. So the question remains: what is the government doing right here and now?
i-HVUcgC6RFGeHXYsGJg6xfZ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Emma Henriksson, for your question! The government is doing exactly what I referred to earlier. Among other things, the regulation letter to Försäkringskassan has been clarified for this year. The Social Insurance Agency, the National Board of Health and Welfare and also the Social Security Inspection have been asked to carry out a rapid analysis of the consequences of these judgments. Why is that? What happens to the people who are rejected? Are they getting any other help, or what? I'm just as concerned as you are. Even if you get rejected, it's important to get help. This analysis will be presented in the autumn. Then we will see what measures the government is taking and what proposals it makes to the Riksdag. That is my answer to that question. We'll see what happens and what happens. This may be because I'm sloppy or because I don't see well enough, Emma Henriksson, but I haven't seen the figure of over 80 percent for rejection. However, I have clearly seen in Försäkringskassan's report that 2006 decreases the hours and that some fewer people get decisions. But I guess we'll have to analyze that. It goes without saying that if it has such serious consequences, it is clear that we will take action.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-64	Mr President, I would like to Over the years, in my hometown of Falun in Dalarna, I have followed three girls who were all born with some kind of disability. Over the years, they have needed assistance in various forms to manage their daily lives both at home and at school. They are wheelchair users and have experienced the problems involved: entering the school gate that has three steps outside or being allowed to change school because it was too difficult to put a ramp or lift in order to get into the building. At the age of 16, one of the girls received a letter in the mailbox saying that she would become an early pensioner. Another received similar information a few years later. They wanted to go to high school and educate themselves. Why wouldn't they? They wanted to go to work. The girls grew up wanting children. But how would they manage when they couldn't even take care of themselves? Society has many fears and prejudices about how a disabled mother can care for children. But, Mr President, it is precisely then that society should come in and set up so that these young people can live as normal a life as possible, despite their disabilities. In my moderate world, Sweden will be a country where everyone is seen and feels needed. A disability should not mean that you are suddenly seen as a collective with exactly the same need for support and service. Everyone with a disability should be able to participate in society on as equal terms as possible, and the support should be jointly and severally financed as necessary. In addition, it should be accessible to everyone, regardless of the ability to pay the individual or where in the country he or she lives. We are committed to freedom of choice and freedom of establishment. And we welcome the announcement made by the committee that all persons who have been granted an operation should be given the opportunity to choose their own performers. Mr President, I would like to Personal assistance is a reform of freedom that we are proud to have introduced. It is a reform for greater freedom in its very best sense. However, there are also shortcomings in the reform in terms of both structure and design. There is a need to review elements and the allocation of responsibilities and powers in order to develop a higher quality. Order and order in welfare are crucial. It is basically a question of what approach you have and from what point of view personal assistance issues are considered. We Moderates protect the right of all people to a more mobile life. Freedom of choice and diversity provide a solid basis for high quality. Evaluation and follow-up, together with authorisation, supervision and sanctioning, are key elements to ensure the continued legitimacy of personal assistance. A challenge that we Moderates see in this area is: How can we create the best conditions for higher quality personal assistance throughout the country? There are currently no detailed measurements and follow-up of the quality of personal assistance. This is a major deficiency in the conditions for developing higher quality. It would be a positive development in which open comparisons are also carried out in the area of personal assistance. We also want to see a clear and focused development work aimed at achieving competitively neutral conditions between public and independent alternative providers of personal assistance to safeguard the freedom of choice of all users and ensure a diversity of performers. Mr President, I would like to Another challenge is the future supply of human resources. Nearly 100 000 people today work as personal assistants. It is important to be able to meet different skills requirements and a reasonable working environment. Authorising officers shall be able to assess the impact of existing compensation schemes and costs. It is the municipalities that are responsible for most of these efforts, but so are the regions and county councils in terms of advice and other personal support. In addition, we have Försäkringskassan who is responsible for the assistance allowance granted. Many different actors are involved, and therefore the need to achieve a satisfactory supply of skills is broad and complex. An unclear division of responsibilities means that the system needs to be improved. We need to develop a national strategy to secure the supply of skills. A further challenge is getting more people with disabilities into work. Being told at the age of 16 that you are going to be retired early is not what you want. Instead, you want the question: What can you do? What kind of work suits you and your disability? Take care of the health instead of the disease! Minimum work capacity shall cause all forces to strengthen the work line. It benefits both the individual, who is given the opportunity to feel the working community and the joy of developing, and society as a whole to counteract the new exclusion. We want to implement a strategy programme aimed at strengthening efforts for more people with disabilities to be able to get to work according to their own work capacity. The years have passed for the three girls who grew up in the '80s and '90s Falun. What happened to them? Anna is now an economist and has worked both at the accounting firm and as CFO at a company. She now runs her own accounting and consulting firm. She's married and has children. Jenni, who was to be retired early at the age of 16, is an investigative secretary in public service. And Veronica, who has 24/7 assistance, has started and runs a multimillion-dollar assistance company. Against all odds, she has given birth to a little son who has turned two days old. All three brought out the health that they had inside. It is important that we here in Parliament take the necessary decisions to get the right conditions for these children, young people and adults to live as life as equal as the rest of us. Many are the stories I've been told over the years about how to be questioned when you need support. This is a fragile group, and we shouldn't let them down. We should ensure quality but also prevent cheating and abuse. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates support all moderate reservations, but for time winning I only ask for reservation 15.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-79	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for you, Ann-Britt Ann-Britt. It is because of the common reservation with the announcement that you are making, which is about freedom of choice within the LSS. It would be interesting for me to take part in the input of the Moderates on this issue, because the law today gives such a right. We are not going to change that practice, but we are also looking after freedom of choice. My question is: what is your purpose behind the reservation?
i-94083c28b6fa802a-81	Mr President, I would like to Now this is not a reservation in the report; it is an announcement. The majority of the committee therefore takes this view. I think it is important to point out the difference between an announcement and a reservation. If you read the Social Democrats' reservation – reservation – about this announcement, you are naturally a little afraid of the dark. A more Soviet – unfortunately I can't use any other word – spirit you have to look for. You say there that this is absolutely impossible and that it is impossible. It's a little weird. I understand that the questioner wants to ask where the different parties stand on this issue, but I also think that one should look at one's own reservation and what it would mean for those who use and receive assistance.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-83	Mr President, I would like to I thank Ann-Britt Ann-Britt for the answer, how I should interpret it now. I would like to make it clear that when I say that I mean reservation, I mean reservation against the government's proposal. I know you have a majority for an announcement. In your previous motion request, you are calling for the law on freedom of choice, LOV, to be implemented within the LSS as well. So you have different approaches to the question of freedom of choice within the Alliance. That's why I'm asking the question. Since the law gives this opportunity and the user today has the full right to choose the performer, it is in that case, first and foremost, the law that needs to be changed. It is not in this House that we need to try to change something, but rather that we should go to the authorities, or in this case the municipalities, which in some cases obviously make it difficult for some to choose the performers with the application of flat-rate compensation and so on. That is the point I wanted to make. But it is very interesting to hear what different angles of entry you have in your question about freedom of choice.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-87	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to hear Mikael Dahlqvist's entrance to why he wants to hear the different attitudes to freedom of choice. In my moderate world, it is of course very important, as I said in my main speech, that those in need of assistance should also be involved in choosing their own performer and developing. In my moderate world, it is a fundamental portal that diversity and freedom of choice are very important.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-88	Mr President, I would like to Then we stand here again and debate a very important issue, namely support for people with disabilities. This is now about the SoU8 report. As I said, today's debate is a little different, because it is not based on any bill or any other proposal from the government. Today we are debating motions from the general period of exercise, motions from parties and individual Members. The answer to many of these motions is that there is already an investigation in progress or that there is a report that is related makes it a slightly different debate. A number of motions may be supported, but they may not be accepted for the reason that something is going on. However, Mr President, today's debate does not make it any less important, quite the contrary. This is an important topic to discuss, especially in the light of recent debates and discussions and developments on personal assistance and LSS. It is a debate that has probably not been able to escape many. Not only is this an important issue, but it is also of personal concern to me. As I have said before, I am a personal assistant, currently on leave of absence, so I have seen in real life at close range how the right support can be vital for people in many different ways. I have also seen at close range the struggle that people are allowed to wage. I have a cousin who had children at the same time as I, and I have seen how her daughter, who was born with a disability, has struggled and how she as a parent has struggled. I also have a mother who works with personal assistance and has a company that does. So I have seen these issues at close range and from different angles. When people are prevented from making their own choices, ill health is created, which in many ways affects not only the individual and its loved ones, but also society. The Swedish Democrats believe that a country's most important task is to ensure good welfare and to take care of its citizens, primarily citizens who are in extra need of support and help. It is one of the cornerstones of prosperity. The law on support and service, LSS, was an incredibly important reform that we want to protect, maintain and improve. LSS is a law of rights, which it is incredibly important that we remember and do not forget. This means that it is not possible to compromise with the rights that LSS gives disabled people just because the state or municipality's budget is a bit worse at the moment. In other words, it is not a law that is dispositive and that can be dismantled, but the rights set out there should apply until we decide otherwise here in this Parliament. Unfortunately, there are many indications that a limited case law has eroded the LSS reform. Persons who, in accordance with the original intentions of the reform, have previously been considered eligible for aid are now not entitled to this aid as a result of interpretations of existing legislative practice. Let me make one thing clear! To provide support to people who need the support of society, such as people with disabilities, we consider our duty as fellow human beings. It is our duty as politicians and legislators to ensure that this is maintained. It is important that we ensure that the original intentions are protected and maintained. If we begin to compromise with the original intentions of the law, we also endanger people's ability to live a life like others, which was the intention from the very beginning. Against this background, we have supported a number of reservations. One of them, reservation no. 4, concerns the assessment of personal assistance needs, something I have personally exercised about since my parliamentary session. We want to defend and preserve the rights of the LSS and the right to personal assistance. One problem that exists today with regard to personal assistance is the Social Insurance Agency's assessment of the concept. This term includes help with personal hygiene, help with meals, help to undress, and help to communicate with others. In order to be entitled to this remuneration from the Social Insurance Agency, these basic needs must be assessed as requiring assistance at least 20 hours per week. However, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's now tough, almost inhuman assessments often lead to people who cannot even dress themselves, eat, communicate, wash their hair and so on no longer meet the basic requirements. There are, as we have heard here before, a number of legal cases that have become a precedent, that is to say, have become guiding for Försäkringskassan's assessments before decisions, and which have limited the right to personal assistance. Above all, what I said is the concept of a basic need, which has been interpreted far too restrictively, and it is very fuzzy. Of course, this has led to personal tragedies. As we have heard here, assistance has sometimes been restricted or withdrawn completely. These people have then had their lives and their living space significantly limited and lost the possibility of inclusion and participation in society. What happens then is that relatives have to take a very big responsibility. These are people who for a long time have already acted as personal assistants, but on a non-profit basis, something they have done beyond their normal parental responsibility. They have taken responsibility throughout the child's childhood, which of course is very stressful. Many of them are already on their knees today. The price is not only paid by the people who get assistance withdrawn and people in their vicinity, but society also pays a huge price. We therefore look with great concern at how the original intentions of the law on personal assistance appear to have been eroded by the restrictive judgments, which we believe have far too narrow interpretations and are not compatible with the original intentions. We believe that it needs to be clarified more clearly what the basic needs are. It's way too unclear. We have seen that it leads to different assessments. The risk is that different assessments are made, and this leads to unequal care. It is certainly positive that the Government has commissioned Försäkringskassan in its regulation letter to Försäkringskassan 2017 to investigate the consequences of the judgments that have come to the Supreme Administrative Court. But I do not think that is enough. We need to stop the ongoing dismantling now. We can't wait for an investigation. Already in 2014, the Social Democrats in this pulpit said: If courts in their judgments change decisively the previous practice of the LSS assessment, it must be clarified by the political side. That's exactly what we want right now. We want clarification. This was said in 2014. It is now 2017, and only now are you asked to look at it. We believe that we must move forward more quickly. Mr President, I would like to express my support for reservation 4. Another reservation linked to the assessment of the right to personal assistance is reservation 17 which concerns two years' review, as someone else here has already talked about. There we have the same attitude. If people have a disability that is more of a chronic nature where unfortunately no improvement can be seen, they should not have to undergo the two-year trial. We think it should be reviewed. Another thing that we also think should be looked at is that children with disabilities should be helped with a coordinator for their parents. That is why I am also in favour of reservation 10. That is an important issue. As I have mentioned before, parents often have a huge responsibility with all these contacts they have with various authorities that are increasing. I know that coordination on this issue is being reviewed. But a coordinator could be very helpful to these parents. Of course, we also support the announcement for which there is a majority in committee that the government should come back with proposals that will give all disabled people who have been granted an operation the opportunity to choose practitioners. We do so with the same motivation as the others have had, so it does not need to be said again. Mr President, I would like to In doing so, I am in favour of reservations 4 and 10, as I have said, but I am, of course, also in favour of our other reservations.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-109	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating areas that are very important to many people. The basis for the LSS reform is that people with disabilities should be able to live like others. The reform, introduced over 20 years ago, brought about a dramatic change for thousands of people with disabilities. It also meant a very big positive change for many relatives who had previously been forced to take an unreasonable responsibility. Through the LSS and the Social Services Act, people with disabilities should be able to have freedom and flexibility in their everyday lives. But disability policy is about much more than caring in everyday life. In practice, it covers all policy areas. It deals with jobs and schools, health care and how we plan and build society so that it is accessible to all. It's about everyone having full participation in society. The area where Sweden still has perhaps the biggest challenge is the possibility of work. The unemployment rate for people with disabilities is far too high. I know that all parties think this is a very important issue. Work is important in so many ways. In addition to economics, increased participation in work also gives a greater sense of need and a social dimension. In a sustainable and inclusive society, everyone who can. Unfortunately, however, a great deal is still missing in order for us to get there. According to Arbetsförmedlingen, approximately one third of the job seekers are people with some form of disability. That is naturally not acceptable at all. Anyone who can have the opportunity to work. To achieve this, we need more flexibility in the labour market than we do today. We need to be better at designing community support so that as many as possible can have a place in a workplace. Among other things, the number of hours a person works needs to be much more adapted to the capacity to work. It is about being able to work a smaller number of hours a week and to adapt the work when the work capacity varies over time. It is therefore important that more flexible efforts are made to help people get started in work or to keep the job they have. We also need to review more opportunities for pay support for people to employers who have employees with disabilities. During its term of office, the Government has been working to improve labour market matching to ensure that everyone's skills are fully exploited. One form of enterprise that the Green Party particularly wants to facilitate is work integration social enterprises. In a three-year investment, the government has contributed money to support individually designed solutions within such companies. For people who are far from the labour market, they can often offer a way to work. Perhaps it is particularly important that young people with disabilities are taken into account. By appointing the Delegation for Youth and Newcomers to work, the government has strengthened labour market policy efforts at local level. The first years of a person's working life are crucial for future opportunities in the labour market. Young people with disabilities are a very large proportion of the young unemployed, and it is a priority group for the Green Party and the government. Participation and work are very much about education. Schools often lack special support and provide teachers with the right skills and opportunities to provide it. The Government has therefore prioritised early interventions and more special educators so that teachers can provide the support that each student needs. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, every person should have the right to be just who he is, and everyone should receive the support they need for participation in society. It is about care according to LSS and the Social Services Act to all who need. It is about tailor-made interventions in schools and individualised interventions in working life. It is also about adaptations in buildings and the physical environment so that they are accessible. Society should be inclusive for all. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reservation No 1.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-119	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put a question to the representatives of the Green Party, who are also responsible for the policy of the government, even if the government responsible is from the Social Democrats. How does the Green Party see that we have a development that means that fewer and fewer people today receive assistance compensation from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency? This is happening in a situation where, during the hearing we had, we in committee do not know what is happening to those who are rejected. You can go back and look at the numbers. In 2010 – 2014, the number of applications granted was around 40 per cent. The bottom notation was 41.3 and the top notation was 45. 6. In 2014, when you took over government power, it was 42, 7. Then came the letter of regulation. It was the regulatory letter that said that it would stop the number of hours and focus in particular on new applications. We've seen how more people have had their assistance withdrawn. In 2015, the share of granted loans fell. For several consecutive years it had been commuting a little about 40, 45 percent. In 2015, 33 per cent received their application. In 2016, it fell to 20.1 per cent. If you break down the figures in six months, it was 22% in the first six months and 18% in the second six months. Is the Green Party concerned about this development? If the answer is yes, what are you now doing urgently for people today to get all the help they need?
i-94083c28b6fa802a-125	Mr President, I would like to Many of the decisions are linked to a couple of judgments in the Supreme Administrative Court. It is not easy to know exactly how much depends on these judgments. The government is working on trying to change this so that self-care, for example, can be included in a natural way, as before, for personal assistance. The government has also changed the regulation letter for 2017, so it's a different writing. We have only come three months into the year, so we will see what the development looks like. However, the fact that fewer are granted assistance does not in itself mean that all the increased refusals are wrong. The government focuses in particular on the two judgments that have had major negative consequences for many parents and children. This applies to children in need of self-care, and this no longer counts in the same way. We are looking at this and the government will come back on this.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-128	Mr President, I would like to I do not really know how to interpret the answer, because it sounded almost like the Green Party is making the assessment that this may well be correct. We are talking about the fact that in 2016 471 people were granted assistance. These are figures that for many years have been well over 1,000 people. So many have received assistance. We know what the development is like in our country thanks to the great advances we are making in medical treatment: we save more lives, but more children are also born who have great needs from the beginning. Investigations have been set up to look at developments. What needs do people have that make them entitled to the community support that we have jointly decided in this Parliament to have? There is nothing in these investigations that says that people are getting so much healthier. On the contrary, development has led to a gradual increase in the number of people in need of assistance. Things happen to people. Some are born with great needs, and some suffer from things during life that give them great needs. Now the number has more than halved in just a few years under your leadership. If the government thinks that this is a development that may well be justified, I understand that the government is doing nothing urgent. But we have people today for whom you stand and falter in the hospitals and don't know what to do. Families have their children left in the hospital. This is not because the children need to remain there, but because the government does not take responsibility for resolving a situation that is urgent. There have indeed been a number of precedents where it took several years before anyone started using the judgment in a different way. It was done after the government's letter of regulation. It was too well that the government backed away from this letter of regulation and wrote a new one, which is always done every year. So is the Green Party comfortable with the situation we have today?
i-94083c28b6fa802a-133	Mr President, I would like to No, we are not comfortable with this situation, especially with regard to the judgments to which I referred. These include self - care cases, for example, where many parents have to stop working because they do not have enough hours for their child. As Emma Henriksson said, the government has a different wording for 2016 in the regulation letter to Försäkringskassan. We'll see how things get a little bit further ahead, but I'd think the assessments will look a little different for this year and the future. Above all, I fully agree that certain judgments have been carried out too harshly. A government cannot just go in and say that it cancels a judgment; it requires some form of legislation. I therefore assume that some sort of proposal will come out in this regard, especially when it comes to self-care. But as I said, it is a process, and we will see what the government will propose. I fully share Emma Henriksson's view of the judgments in the Administrative Court, and I also agree that the wording contained in the 2016 regulatory letter was not good. I think we have a perfectly good wording for 2017, and it should influence the assessments.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-137	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that I support all the reservations supported by the Center Party, but I choose here to apply only for reservation 15. Mr President, I would like to During the special debate on assistance held here in Parliament last autumn, I began my speech with a poem by Lena Eldståhl. Lena needs assistance herself, but for some time now her assistance hours have been greatly reduced – this despite the fact that nothing has changed significantly in her disability. Lena wants to show with her poem the importance of the sense of context and participation. It is a society where everyone can take place, be seen and operate. It's a society that seems to be getting further and further away. Involvement is important for the development of the individual, and it is important for the development of our society. We can't afford to put individuals outside. Instead, we must put man in the forefront. But in order to be involved, you also need to have the conditions for doing so. The basic intention of the Act on Support and Service is that it should be a law of rights that allows people with large disabilities to live like everyone else. The LSS, and above all the assistance reform, has become a freedom reform for people with extensive disabilities. It has become a prerequisite for freedom, but it has also meant freedom of choice. It is about being able to control the assistance yourself and to be free to choose the performer. It is about the principle that the person who needs assistance should have the power to decide for himself who will provide assistance and how it will be carried out. Persons with a need for assistance of more than 20 hours per week for basic needs are today entitled to assistance compensation from Försäkringskassan. Here the individual user has the opportunity to control their assistance to a large extent, as there is a variety of performers to choose from. However, in the case of persons who need 20 hours of assistance per week or less, it is the municipality that is responsible. This often means that you no longer have the same freedom of choice. The possibility to choose an alternative executioner exists, but the hourly remuneration is often so low that it is not sufficient to use any assistance other than that offered by the municipality. In practice, this means that a person who is granted 20 hours or less after re-examination may go from having been able to choose freely to a virtually non-existent choice. This isn't good enough. For the Center Party, it is obvious that all users should be given equal opportunities to control their assistance. Mr President, I would like to There are children with high needs for assistance, such as children who need advanced care at home. These children are no longer guaranteed assistance compensation from Försäkringskassan and are referred to health care. Assistance is according to law personally designed support for those who, due to large and lasting disabilities, need help with such things as their personal hygiene, meals and dressing as well as communicating with others. When we then get reports of how assistance has been withdrawn for basic needs such as breathing and where instead parents and relatives are expected to take an even greater responsibility, one is quite far from the intention of the law. In addition, both the disability movement and the Swedish National Audit Office have pointed out that several families where one or more children have disabilities or special needs are often also weighted by the amount of contacts with different authorities. We see that there is a great need for improved support for the families concerned. It is therefore important to review the question of coordinators of parents with children with disabilities. Mr President, I would like to Today, a decision on assistance compensation is to be reviewed after two years to determine whether needs still exist. The reasons for reconsideration are based on the fact that needs can change over time. However, for some persons with assistance, it is highly unlikely that the state of health and the need for assistance would change. Since the two-year trials are often a mentally stressful process for those concerned, we in the Center Party believe that the system needs to be simplified. In this context, the government must review the question of abolishing the two-year review of decisions on assistance compensation for persons with an unchanged disability since the previous review. It is an important issue of human value. Mr President, I would like to The centre party's starting point is that all people can grow, want to support themselves and be fully involved in society. Therefore, it is self-evident for the Center Party to protect assistance and LSS as well as the freedom of choice for those who need assistance. All of this is with the aim of being able to live like others and with it be part of society and social development – regardless of who you are or what functional conditions you have. Lena Eldståhl – whom I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate on her birthday; I think she is watching the debate – expresses in her poem: As water droplets that meet cheek to cheek before they float together and converse through the different unique body languages that signal between the strokes of hearts and provoke an equal flow of value of joy
i-94083c28b6fa802a-150	Mr President, I would like to I shall continue to put the same question to the representative of the Centre Party, Per Lodenius. What is your purpose behind the announcement to the government regarding freedom of choice in assistance? That possibility is already supported in the legislative text today, and I have made it clear that the government will not change that intention. The background is that within the Alliance you have different justifications, and I want to hear what the Center's explanatory statement is.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-152	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I think I was clear in my speech. It is a matter of freedom of choice regardless of how many hours of assistance you have been granted. It is about every person's freedom of choice, that is, the ability to control their own support and assistance. That is the simple explanation and answer to the announcement. It is good and clear that several parties see the need for freedom of choice and opportunity for each individual to control their own assistance and support.
i-Kdn1kgkGH2eptXLd5NLt6E	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Per Lodenius! I assume that the Center Party is committed to local self-determination. This means that in the flow of exercise from your alliance colleagues there are different angles of entry to freedom of choice. One is the LOV, the Freedom of Choice Act, which means that it systematically removes the whole of municipal self-determination. It would therefore be interesting to hear how the Center Party views this issue. I don't think your comrades in the municipalities are very happy if they don't get to decide over their own municipalities. I say once again that we have no intention of amending the legislation on freedom of choice. Rather, it is a system error. I've heard it works well in many municipalities to choose the performers. Then it is not the flat rate but the party colleagues in the municipalities that we should influence. Perhaps it is not in this House that we should make the decision.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-156	Mr President, I would like to Of course, in the Center Party, we protect the autonomy of municipalities, but we also protect the freedom of each individual and the ability to control his or her own life and control the support he or she needs. I refer once again to my speech in this House. There are, of course, different parties who have called for approval of the announcement, and we have different approaches. But for the Center Party, it is again important for the individual to be able to influence the support you need from society during different parts of life. So simple is our explanation that we support and support the announcement.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-159	Mr President, I would like to Disability policy is an area that has been extensively debated for a long time. It is an issue that has aroused strong feelings, sometimes without politics seeming to understand why. The reason the issue has aroused strong feelings is that it is about something as fundamental as the right to live our lives, the right of each of us to be an active citizen of society and to have our human rights met. These are big words that can be difficult to concretise and actually understand but easy to distance themselves from, to think that this is not about me or about us but about them. Most people never have to think. Living like everyone else is a matter of course. I've been thinking about these questions, about how much of my life I actually take for granted. I wake up in the morning, have breakfast, maybe go to practice, go to work, can be with my children and can go to the movies if I want. In the evening I can even attend a political meeting, and I can make my voice heard. Not once during the day do I calculate my toilet visits or how long it takes me to shower. I haven't once thought about my chewing process or whether that process should be crucial to whether I can participate in society. Not once have I calculated the cost of what I do. I have never had to bear in mind that my civil rights and freedoms have a price tag. But that is not the case for everyone. One day it can come when it's no longer like that for me. Many people are sitting right now worrying about whether they are going to be able to keep their jobs, take care of their children or whether the time it takes for them to shower is enough for them to be entitled to what I take for granted. That is why this is such a hot question. It is about our fundamental rights being assessed differently. In 1997, however, the will was different. Then the law came into force whose purpose was to ensure that no matter what happens to us in life, we shall have the right to live. LSS is a fantastic reform of freedom and an indispensable part of our social safety net. It is an insurance policy for all those who have had their lives overturned or will have it in the future. LSS is a guarantor of everyone's right to live our lives, be citizens and be able to participate in society on equal terms regardless of the turn of life. We'll get help when we need it. But that right is rocked. It did not take very long for politics to realise that there is a reverse to standing up for the equal value of all people. It costs money. That is why this is such a hot question. It is about our freedom and participation having a price. Mr President, I would like to There is no politician who thinks that it would be a way forward to go out to the people and say: Your security we cannot afford; if anything happens to you, it may mean that you may only exist. Then one must first demonise the people involved, make it appear that their rights are too expensive. Then one must have a rhetoric that makes the people think that cheating is the reason why freedom costs, not people's needs. The bourgeois government was experts at talking about cheating, crime and exploitation, putting human rights against costs but distorted in other words. From my point of view, it may not have been surprising that they did so, but when a red - green government takes on and even goes further, I am really dismayed. That is why this is such a hot question. People's lives are at stake, but those affected feel that they are considered criminals. Mr President, I would like to People are rightly angry that every day they feel that their rights are being taken away from them. We are angry that the legislation that has involved a freedom revolution is rocking, but the government nevertheless focuses more on the crowns and the ring than the importance of seriously securing the LSS. From 2007, when the new guidelines for basic needs were introduced, politics has crossed its arms and watched after the Supreme Administrative Court judgment have generated a comprehensive reduction process in assistance. The consequences have been that assessments to obtain assistance have become increasingly harsh and, moreover, increasingly offensive. More and more people have had their rights limited. That is why, for many years, we have been calling for a review of the judges to see how, not if, the legislation needs to be amended to live up to its intention. That is what we wanted the LSS review to be about, not one-sidedly focusing on costs. Now we have a rather one-sided investigation, but the government can still take the helm and go to action when it comes to the words of protecting LSS. This requires the government to review the judgments that have been handed down in their entirety, not just the one about the fifth basic need, and to stop the erosion of the law. This would be a major step towards restoring confidence in these issues. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I should like to clarify one point concerning our reservation. We are opposed to the committee's announcement to introduce LOV but, of course, do not want to change the part of the LSS that already today gives people the right to choose their performer. In other words, we want it to be what it looks like today. Having said that, I would like to conclude by saying that, of course, we support all our reservations, but in order to save some time, I choose only to endorse reservation 18.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-174	Mr President, I would like to I know that Maj Karlsson and many other representatives of the Left Party are very concerned about the situation we have and about the regulatory letter that said that Försäkringskassan's first assignment during the year would be to work to break the trend in the number of hours. This was far from the formulations contained in the regulatory letters during the alliance-led period, with a Christian Democrat as head of the Ministry. Unfortunately, the Left Party cannot, on this basis alone, swear free of responsibility for the situation we find ourselves in today. We know clearly, on the basis of how this government has so far acted, that this is ultimately governed by the fact that it is a budgetary issue. We want to stop the number of hours because this costs so much. We have now received a forecast from Försäkringskassan where since the previous forecast – not since the start of the term or since a decade back – it is estimated that only in this year, 2017, has managed to achieve a saving of half a billion. Looking at the following year, it is also about a quarter of a billion per year, according to the current forecast; it can of course be additional money you expect to save. So we are talking about a multi-billion-dollar saving on the most vulnerable in society, and this is a budget that the Left Party supports. So my questions to the Left Party are: What has the Left Party done to put hard on the government? How much have you prioritised this in the budget negotiations and ensured that it is stopped and that the government takes steps to ensure that people's rights are guaranteed? A loud tone is not enough. What are you doing in practice?
i-94083c28b6fa802a-178	Mr President, I would like to It is good that you are asking for a reply, because it feels like we are in complete agreement on these issues in the debate. First of all, I would like to say that we are not in the government – we are negotiating the budget. I think you're well aware that we were running a hard fight on these issues while we were negotiating. No cuts have actually been made. However, we agreed to some things where we would have liked it to look different, such as the flat rate. But I think you're well aware that, unfortunately, the situation would have been even worse if we hadn't sat down. I believe that we have an extremely important role to play in these budget negotiations, and I think that the government also knows what our entry is when we sit at that table. We have been pushing these issues for many years with clarity, and these have not only been words; I think you have also seen that in our actions. But certainly we have a role to play, not just with words.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-181	Mr President, I would like to If the rumours I have heard about the government's ambitions are true, it was not just to make a very low estimate of the amount but to freeze it completely. So it is clear that there have been ambitions of the current government to make further savings on the most vulnerable. The question is whether it was forces within the Green Party or within the Social Democrats or whether it was the Left Party that was most contributing to saving not so much but less. However, in the course of the current year, a half-billion of savings will still be made. That's a lot compared to what you trumpet out as big bets. And during the budget debate yesterday, the Minister of Finance also stood in the speaker's seat, beating his chest and saying that there had never been so many people who could do without the support of society. It's not about making it without it. The responsible authorities say that they do not really know what happens to those who receive their assistance. You don't know if they'll have their needs met in any other way. But we know that this saves the treasury half a billion only in 2017 and additional money in the future. The Left Party is behind the budget that makes this a fact, for the Treasury, but also for the people affected. So I would still like to hear not only what the Left Party has done to ensure that there have not been other, additional savings, but what one does for this situation. What is the government's demand to actually come back here and now, not in six months' time or in one or two years' time, with something that might improve the situation of those who today have their decisions withdrawn or rejected? What's the Left Party doing now?
i-94083c28b6fa802a-185	Mr President, I would like to As far as the extreme developments in personal assistance are concerned, I share your concerns 100% and really believe that the government must act decisively – no talk about it. But what is a bit tricky is that this is not something that has happened in the budget negotiations. The budget has not saved it; for example, what is at the heart of the regulation letter. We were really driving to get it changed, so there we were doing what we were supposed to do. That was one of the reasons. Then there are the judges who need to be reviewed. We have been doing this for years, and we will continue to do so. I believe that this is a fundamental element of the development we are seeing. As you said, some of them began to be used after this government took office. This is indeed worrying, and I think that we should jointly put extreme pressure on us to ensure that we get a proper review, not just of a judgment but of the whole, so that we can get to grips with this. If we want to protect LSS seriously, we must also ensure that it is not eroded.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-187	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that I naturally support all the reservations expressed by the Liberals, but for time, I only call for the joint alliance reservation 15 under paragraph 17 to be approved. Mr President, I would like to For decades Swedish disability policy has had very high ambitions. People with disabilities should have good living conditions and be able to live like everyone else. It has given freedom to people to live their lives, not just survive. Unfortunately, this freedom must now be defended. This social contract, as you might call it, with those who need the most support in order to participate fully in society according to their conditions, has been an agreement between all parties in this House and has worked since the late 1980s. Yesterday, the government's Spring Bill was debated in this House. I would like to quote the part of the text that concerns this area with a single sentence: This one sentence seems to describe that the social contract I am talking about is still valid. Mikael Dahlqvist quoted his party congress earlier, and it just sounds very good. But the question is what it looks like in real life. Yes, reality is quite different. The number of persons with assistance compensation has declined for the first time since the Act was introduced in 1994, from 16 152 persons in 2015 to 15 931 persons in 2016, and in its projections, the government is expecting this to continue. In addition, Försäkringskassan's figures are not consistent with the figures in the spring bill. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency's own figures and follow-up are even worse than the government's figures. But if we stick to the government's figures: there is a slight decrease, it may seem, but it ignores the fact that every one stands for a life that has been set aside. Then the reduction is catastrophic. On the 142 A4 pages of the report, 70 requests have been made. There are 70 proposals for changes and improvements from all parties in Parliament. The government parties choose not to take in any of these. All of this shows a policy that has actually broken down – a social contract that has now been actively broken by the current government. This debate is interesting and clarifying. We have government representatives, those in the Riksdag who are most responsible for disability policy, who now admit that they are not updated on their own authority's latest figures, and explain that the regulation letter for 2016 was bad and a mistake but that it is all improved by 2017. But the 2017 Regulatory Letter contains exactly the same thing, but with more words and something kinder to write! Reality hasn't changed. Many are the testimonials of how municipalities, county councils and regions, as well as the Social Insurance Agency, systematically examine the lowest possible interpretations of the regulations. You don't choose, you reject and you cut the number of bets. And we are increasingly going to court and pursuing cases against our citizens. In fact, all this is done with the good memory of the government. Yes, Mr President, it is even done at the obvious request of the government. Mr President, I would like to One in four Swedish states that they have some form of disability. Persons with disabilities are available in all ages, classes and occupational groups. They live in the city and in the country, alone and in families. They work, study, are unemployed and are retired. They have different values and interests – that is, they are just like everyone else. When talking about people with disabilities, it is not about a homogeneous group of individuals that is sorry about, who are outside, to be taken care of or who are particularly vulnerable. It's about people everywhere, here and now, with ambitions and life dreams. It is people with preconditions who differ in some respects from the majority but who are an important part of the community and have the right to participate in it. Disability policy is ultimately about freedom and the right to participation, independence and self-determination. Liberal policy means defending freedom. It is about creating the conditions for everyone to be their best self also if you have disabilities, contrary to the government's policy of putting aside, leaving out and reducing people with the greatest needs. What I think the government does not realize in its recession is that the parts of disability policy are communication vessels. Let me take some examples. If county councils and regions skimp with rehabilitation and assistive devices while the Social Insurance Agency removes LSS interventions, it automatically leads to lock-in and less independence for those concerned. Instead, someone who had been able to work and pay taxes becomes dependent on sickness benefits. Another may become completely dependent on his parents, his loved ones, or on the home service of social services. A third cannot be active and care for its health and therefore needs more health care. A fourth doesn't come home from the hospital at all. Short-term non-investment in people automatically leads to higher costs in the long term. The government's policy in this area is clear: the construction of the system takes precedence over the individual's possibility of life. All the talk about the construction of society, that everyone should be included, the preservation of the Swedish model and security in a new time obviously does not apply to everyone. Freedom should be pruned or removed. Mr President, I would like to Försäkringskassan's own figures for 2016 speak very clearly. It is becoming increasingly difficult to obtain assistance compensation. The government's signal policy from autumn 2014 has now had its total and quite ruthless effect. A record high of 79.9 per cent of those seeking assistance were rejected in 2016. Mr President, I would like to As I said, the 142 A4 pages of the report cover more than 70 requests – 70 proposals for changes and improvements from all parties in Parliament. Government parties and government support parties choose not to take in any of them. They've made up their minds. The route of cutbacks for vulnerable persons must be completed. In the case of disability policy, the motto of security in a new era should probably be replaced by insecurity in the present time. Mr President, I would like to Freedom must be defended.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-203	Mr President, I would like to These were very strong words Bengt Eliasson used in his speech. Like me, he knows the story of the LSS very well. This is a process that has been going on for many years and of which his predecessors are equally guilty. It was only a few months ago that we got figures on what the Supreme Administrative Court case law means. This means that Försäkringskassan must comply with these judgments. You know very well, Bengt Eliasson, that the government cannot go into the current legislation. That is why it is wise that the government should now quickly analyse what the consequences are in practice and come back in this House this autumn with proposals for action. We're just as worried about developments as you and your party are. It was only a few weeks ago that we received the figures. But do not claim that this is a conscious strategy when the Social Insurance Agency itself says that you are not sure what the development depends on! My question to you is: how do the Liberals think we should have done differently? We have recently received figures and take on this and do an investigation and an analysis. This is the way we have to work before we take action, isn't it?
i-94083c28b6fa802a-208	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would just like to comment on the judgments that Mikael Dahlqvist has returned to throughout this debate. True, the judges are there. They can't be overlooked. But the latest judgment that has had devastating consequences is from 2012. For some inscrutable reason it was not implemented by Försäkringskassan until 2016. Before that, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency felt that it was not possible to use it, precisely because it would have too great consequences. This is Försäkringskassan's own quotes. This is a concern. This means that when the government opens the lock gates in its regulatory letter, it will be possible to use the judges to effect the policy. That is not reasonable, in my opinion. Then we come to the other parts about taking responsibility for politics. I think Emma Henriksson has had very good lines in this speaker's chair. She shows the possibilities for people who are now being rejected. More and more work is now focused on describing people in assistance as rogue and more or less criminals. Eligible persons are portrayed as potential cheaters and assistance providers as criminal benefit dependants. That's a problem. That is what makes it possible to pursue this policy now, in which, in fact, it is very effective to reduce rather than increase and make more people able to provide assistance. I would like to put a counter-question to Mikael Dahlqvist: What exactly is Mikael Dahlqvist doing with his fair speech from the Party Congress?
i-94083c28b6fa802a-212	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, the spokesperson of the Liberals on these issues knows very well that we do not have a penny in budget savings in the area of disability, but it will be decided when the year ends and when we get the bill for the decisions. It is still, and will be, a law of rights. I think that the right terminology should be used when debating. Secondly, I do not like your speculation that the government would deliberately instruct the Social Insurance Agency to execute judgments. The Social Insurance Agency itself says that it has not had the resources or procedures to establish this. Then, unfortunately, it took a number of years. I agree. It may be necessary to act against the authority: why is there such a long delay when it comes to judgments? I repeat what we intend to do. We intend to come back when we have carried out a thorough analysis of our authorities. What does this mean? What are the consequences? Does anyone end up outside? And, in such cases, what measures should be taken? I repeat: we have recently received the figures from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. It is quite difficult to act faster. Until 2016 this was constant – you know very well, Bengt Eliasson. My counter-question, to which you do not answer, I ask you once again: what do you liberals think we would have done differently without having an analysis at the bottom?
i-94083c28b6fa802a-216	Mr President, I would like to The state budget is based on a number of assumptions. That became very clear in the spring bill yesterday. The budget is based on a reduction in this area. In this area, it is estimated to be coldly reduced expenditure of between 1⁄2 and 1 billion in order to bring it together in the last row. It became very clear yesterday. What are the social effects? Yes, SKL bears witness to a clear overwhelming of municipal budgets right now in this area. On point after point – it concerns action after action – municipalities, county councils and regions testify that costs are now rapidly being passed on to them instead. You can ignore the costs and look after people. People are being set aside. What could the government do? Yes, of course the government has to do half as far as these measures are concerned. You can immediately see to it that it is slowed down to make an analysis. It was no problem to close the Öresund Bridge in a few months and make decisions here in Parliament. It took a very short time, barely a year ago, to produce that legislation. We have produced legislation in a very short time during the autumn holidays as well. However, long-term analyses and an investigation are needed to ensure that, at best, legislation is in place in 2019 to change this area. This is not reasonable government policy, Mikael Dahlqvist. This is a reduction, and it is a severe withdrawal of people's freedoms. Freedom must be defended.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-220	Mr President, I would like to I will not always make two speeches on one and the same report, but there were reasons for doing so this time. In fact, there were a number of points in the debate that are worth coming back to. Today we have heard the representatives of the government say: now we have changed the regulation letter. Now we can see an improved situation. We heard most clearly from the Green Party: as long as you see the figures from this year, you will see that this has probably turned around. I took the opportunity to run out and contact Försäkringskassan's statistical unit to ask: Can you get figures on what the trend is this year and on the rate of rejection? I could get an answer. It should be said that it is with the reservation that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency usually has. The statistics are usually produced with three months' lag, because then you usually know that it is completely secured. It's April 19th today. So there are a few more days left before it has been three months. But for January you can get figures that could possibly change as something. In 2016, 20 per cent were granted this grant. In January it was 12 per cent. That was 22% in the first half of last year and 18% in the second half of the year. In January this year it was 12 per cent. It is a development that is moving in one direction at high speed. If I were a government, I would feel that it is so urgent that action should be taken here and now. As we have just heard in the line shift, it is possible to act quickly, but it requires that you have the will. The question is: do the government parties have that will, or do they turn a blind eye to these figures? Do you choose not to find out because you do not want to face the truth?
i-94083c28b6fa802a-228	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation No 1. This report deals with commercial transport and taxis. It is in many ways about what conditions we should have for different companies. This applies to different companies in the haulage and commercial transport sectors, but also to different modes of transport. In the cooperation government, we see professional traffic in a broader perspective. Of course, it is about goods and goods coming out efficiently. The needs of business and society must be met. But it should also be done within the limits of nature. Unfortunately, this is not the case today, because we are heavily dependent on imported fossil oil, which has a negative impact on the climate. Then we want to see rules for the different modes of transport that allow you to use as little energy as you need to produce the necessary transport. There is a need for different rules than there are now. But what has been at the heart of the debate on this report is: do we provide fair conditions for hauliers? This government began at a high speed to address the issues that were partly prepared during the previous government's time but which did not lead to concrete proposals. As Minister, Anna Johansson addressed these issues quite quickly. People know I don't hesitate to give criticism when it's justified. But I really do not think that the government in this context deserves any criticism for not doing things – quite the opposite. With regard to clapping and other rules, the investigations necessary to implement legislative changes have been carried out or are being carried out. That's why I'm really behind the reservation. You have to wait for the preparation to know what you are doing when you make proposals. There are a number of different aspects, including EU work. After all, the industry is highly international. We have hauliers from other countries that drive in Sweden, and Swedish hauliers drive in other countries. If we are to get this right, we must work along with and influence the EU system in a positive direction. There, hopefully, a package later this year is expected to bring the activities in this area up to a fairer and more competitive situation. It is also about driving and rest times, and in the light of the traffic accidents that have taken place in the last six months and in the last month, I think a little bit should be considered that there are several different reasons why there are rules on driving and rest times. Firstly, it is about reasonable working conditions for lorry drivers, and secondly it is also about road safety for all of us who are out in the road system. You should have effective supervision of this so that no one cheats and lets drivers work when they are really too tired to drive safely. It is A and O so that we can combine healthy road haulage with road safety rules. It is a matter of ordering responsibility, and the Swedish Transport Agency states in the investigation they carry out on behalf of the Government that not a single case has been prosecuted between 1 October 2012 and 2015 – not a single case. I think that shows us in an area that we really have reason to deal with, because when we are out debating these issues we are often told that yes, we have entered that and that and that in the contract for the procurement of transport! And that sounds good. But when one might ask the question: Are you verifying compliance with these rules? I'm afraid that's a very bad order too. To what extent are the law enforcement authorities able to follow up and prosecute those who violate their responsibilities? It's probably far too little. That is why I think it is very interesting proposals that Sweden's Åkeri companies themselves have put forward regarding how we could tighten up the requirements of the customer responsibility and ensure that those who do not behave there can really be prosecuted and convicted so that we can get the quality of the actual responsibility that you actually have when ordering a transport. Then it is also reasonable for us to raise the question of how this is to be controlled. Just demanding more law without having sanctions and opportunities to follow it up is a blow to the air. That is why I wonder how the alliance parties have thought, because the proposal for road wear tax that has been investigated and which is being prepared in the Government Office takes on board the criticism that has been made that today we have very little information about what is actually happening on the road. We write in our report on how it works in Germany, where you have a maut. There it is obvious that you have a register for everyone who runs in the road system. That register is not only used for the actual collection of charges, it is also a means of preventing criminal offences and of prosecuting those who violate the rules. On all the meetings that I have had over the years with the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office, the Swedish Transport Agency and others who have to monitor that it works on the roads, you call for a corresponding register where those who drive can report their transport and where you also have the opportunity to follow up and nail those who do not do well. Those who have pure flour in the bag have no problem with this. This is one of the aims of introducing a road-wear tax. It is not the main objective, but it is one of the aims of doing so. You are opposed to this from the alliance side, and I do not see in your proposals that there is any corresponding function whatsoever. But if you're going to be able to prosecute someone, you have to know that this one exists and is registered somewhere. This report also deals with taxis. Taxi is a business that has gained a renewed topicality when we discuss sharing economy. The concept of sharing economy is well developed mainly for environmental and climate reasons. It is not good enough for us to use a large amount of virgin raw materials and renewable resources to a much greater extent than new production can take place in nature, but we must simply become much better at living within the conditions of long-term and ecologically sustainable development. Taxis are an unexpected, or not sufficiently well-attended, phenomenon that fits perfectly in the definition of the collaborative economy, especially in the case of cities. In cities, cars may roll 3 to 5 percent of the time they are in the city. The rest of the time they stand still. From the point of view of emissions, one might think it a good thing that these cars are standing still, but they take up space and take up resources for manufacturing and scrapping, and a large part of the transport that takes place with private cars could be carried out with shared cars instead, that is, in the form of taxis. But then the taxi industry must also be given dignified conditions. In committee, we have been informed several times that black taxis are far too easy today. You cheat and maybe drive a little black and a little white. The competitive situation is not at all satisfactory, but here we need both stricter rules and, above all, better supervision and sanctions so that taxis can be something that people can be recommended with good conscience as an alternative to the private car. With regard to the fundamental issues of justice and order, there may not be a complete consensus, but there is a common interest in the committee across the block. This was demonstrated by the way in which the committee received the proposals delivered by the government in its first year, because we agreed that squabbling and other things were steps in the right direction. But anyone who has witnessed how it works on the road now must realise that we need to go further. We cannot be satisfied, and we cannot solve things very easily by saying that we have to have more police officers, because police do have more work to do than guard the safety of our roads. Of course they will, but there are many other urgent tasks for police officers. If they are to be able to ensure that existing legislation is properly enforced and that it works with the law enforcement authorities, they need to be assisted by registers and all the other proposals that are now being examined at the initiative of the government and which I expect the government to come back to the House.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-245	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating commercial traffic and taxis. There are very many important issues in this area, but I will concentrate most of all on our reservation. The last time I was in the speaker's chair, I was told by the President that I had exceeded my time by 67%. That will not be my ambition today. Mr President, I would like to When I saw that the Alliance highlighted the competitiveness of the haulage industry, I became very interested and actually a little happy that we might be able to find an area where we can agree and achieve success. After all, competitiveness is important for investing in the haulage industry. You should be able to invest in new trucks, and you should be able to start new businesses. It's really important with the competition. So I read their exercise over and over again. In the exercise text it seems that there is no employee. One might think that we in Sweden have self-driving trucks, because there is nothing about any employee in the haulage industry. There is no line in the Alliance's motion on professional drivers, not a single line on the 61 000 members of the Transport Workers' Union. However, there are four sentences about a truck driving up in Överkalix. But there is not a single sentence, a single word in your motion about the 61 000 members of the Transport Workers' Association who constitute commercial traffic. The Alliance and the Swedish Democrats have a request on a competitiveness issue where I thought we could agree and find a good solution. But they talk only about trucks and not about those who drive. Self-driving trucks do not exist on Swedish roads. After all, someone is sitting behind the wheel and driving, I would like to inform you. Mr. Old President! As Karin Smith mentioned in her speech, we decided on cabotage rules and rules on classing as soon as our government took office. However, these rules were developed in the EU in October 2009. In the past, the application of cabotage rules was a bit flurryy. For this reason, a regulatory framework was developed which, in short, means that if you bring an international transport to a Member State, you have the right to stay there for seven days and take three runs. Article 16 of the so-called Goods Regulation states that Member States shall lay down rules on penalties applicable to offenders and shall take measures to ensure compliance with those provisions. This was in October 2009. So it took five years without much happening, despite the fact that the committee in 2011/2012 had taken the initiative to investigate the impact of the rules. And even though we had an announcement of the parliamentary year 2013-2014 on cabotage, not much happened. But, Mr President-in-Office, when we Social Democrats, together with the Green Party, the cooperation government, came to power, we took direct hold of this. In November 2014, we had a debate here on a proposal on cabotage and complaints, which the Reinfeldt Government prepared at the last moment and which was decided and implemented. Directly in October 2015, the Government gave a directive to the Swedish Transport Agency to investigate how this regulatory framework is being followed and what effect it has. It not only gave directives on cabotage and complaints, but commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency, together with the police and the Finnish Customs, to monitor the impact of the rules on professional traffic and to investigate, among other things, longer time for classing than 24 hours, driving and rest times, combined transport and ordering responsibility. It is a little sad that you have this reservation today and cannot wait a few weeks until 1 May, and see what conclusions the investigation concludes and, on this basis, take the next step together in the committee to ensure the competitiveness and conditions of both companies and workers in the haulage industry. Unfortunately, however, the Alliance, like when it came to the procurement of taxi companies in the public sector which means that taxi drivers here in Stockholm get 27 SEK an hour, another line and not a collaboration with us to jointly ensure competitiveness in the haulage industry and the taxi industry. This is something that we have constantly sought since we took office. We did not wait five years, but we took immediate action on this and have implemented action after action. And we are willing, Mr President-in-Office, to continue to cooperate across the block to ensure the competitiveness of the haulage industry.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-255	Mr. Old President! We support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservations 3 and 6. At one time Sweden was a leading maritime nation. We had a large merchant fleet trading in every corner of the world. Today we do not have many ships left with the Swedish flag. There are few difficult attempts to get Swedish shipping going. Swedish shipping is not impressive today. More incentives and opportunities must be given to bring down costs in an international market, otherwise we will not have more than a handful of Swedish ships left. Should we make the same mistake with the Swedish haulage companies as we have with Swedish shipping? Now you can't flag out trucks, but of course you can make it unprofitable for Swedish hauliers to do business. We Swedish democrats want Swedish hauliers to be able to operate with healthy competition. There has been tough competition in the haulage industry for a long time and we must take action. There are rules on cabotage, but the rules are often ignored. We have clapping, but it is for a maximum of 24 hours and is often completely ineffective. We also have a fine that is pretty tough and that extends up to 40 000 SEK. We Swedish democrats want to go further to ensure that there are fair conditions in the haulage industry. We can look at an investigation that has been carried out about the road wear tax where foreign road hauliers should write up how much they have driven on Swedish roads in their tax return. Is this likely to be followed at all? That's nonsense. Of course, people cheat as much as they can. We must have rules that will ensure that it is complied with. We must ensure that Swedish hauliers have a chance in their own domestic market. In the case of 74-tonne BK4 roads, there is an investigation that throws out a small cluster of roads that these heavy-duty vehicles are allowed to operate. There are so few routes that it is totally pointless for many road hauliers to invest in vehicles that can transport these heavier loads at all. We should not be naive and believe that it is only long-distance transport that is concerned. It is about everything from moving companies to gravel cars and, of course, about longer transport. We have to do the right thing, and we have to do it now. How can compliance with rules on cabotage be monitored? There are rumours that two to two and a half thousand vehicles never even leave Sweden with a foreign registration plate. We Swedish democrats have exercised to introduce something similar to the German system Maut but not to copy it straight off. We want, as Karin Svensson Smith said, to keep track of the traffic in Sweden. We want control, but we do not want to impose burdensome tax rules and other things on Swedish hauliers. We want riders who come in to place a GPS positioning system so that they can see that the rules are complied with and that they carry out the transport they legally receive. As far as clapping, which Mr Jasenko mentioned, is concerned, we have definitely been involved in pushing this issue through. As I understand it, when we asked them about squeezing, the Swedish Transport Administration had no ambition – at least not the Director General – to extend the clamping over 24 hours. I hope I'm really wrong. It is important to be strong and to be able to trample the vehicles that cheat, as long as necessary. If 24 hours is enough, it's great, as well if it's enough with an hour. If the penalties are not paid, we must be able to detain the vehicles until the charges are paid. We must also have a traffic police officer who knows his heavy vehicles and knows how to be loadproof. We need to have a safe and secure environment. Heavy vehicles can be dangerous. We know that many skiers have difficulties with the Swedish language. They do not know where to go, and communication difficulties are often great. Of course, many foreign hauliers can do this, and that is no big problem. It is important that we try to do what we can to save Swedish haulage companies. Furthermore, if, as I was talking about at the outset, we could get the transports to be carried out by sea and if we could divide them, that would have been a huge environmental benefit. As I said, we need to get to the right conditions. We must be able to ensure that the rules are complied with. We must also be able to have sanctions against those who commit crimes.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-270	Mr. Old President! Today we are discussing professional traffic. I intend to focus on road transport in my speech, but the policy area obviously covers all modes of transport. The industry, regardless of what forms it takes – on land, rail, sea or air – is of exceptional importance to the whole of Swedish society and its function. It is the bloodstream for business, enterprise and jobs. The haulage industry alone accounted for as much as 4 per cent of Swedish gross domestic product a couple of years ago. It is a significant economic activity. Given the importance of the haulage industry, if we focus on it, we can state, as many speakers have touched on, that the Swedish haulage industry and the Swedish haulage companies today find it difficult to assert themselves in an international competition where wages but perhaps above all compliance is often lower than what we assume it should be in our country and in a civilized country. The legislative changes that the Center Party and the Alliance paved the way for and that became a reality in 2015 – classing and more effective tools in the fight against rogue entrepreneurship – were significant and steps in the right direction to promote competition on equal terms. However, we note that there are still significant and remaining problems in the field of road transport, which mean that the competitiveness of the Swedish haulage industry continues to weaken. This is often argued and repeated by the industry itself, but it does not stop there. In a 2015 report, the Swedish Tax Agency also confirms that the proportion of companies at a general level in the country feels to a decreasing extent that they are exposed to competition from companies that tax fraud. However, the opposite is true of the transport sector: there is an increase in pressure, and the competitive situation is exacerbated by the cheating of taxes and charges. Thus, the industry as a branch of industry in our country differs greatly from other sectors of industry. Other reports on haulage operations in Sweden confirm the image of an industry that is under pressure and where we risk a situation that can be described as unfair business forms competing out companies that want to do the right thing. In the context and the reasoning on the competitiveness of Swedish haulage companies, there is reason to mention the study on a distance-based road wear charge or mileage tax that the Ministry of Finance has ordered and was presented in February this year. In some contexts, there is a misconception, namely that the Minister of Finance has scrapped the proposals of the investigation, but that is not the case at all. Within the Ministry of Finance and the Government Office, work is under way to revise the proposal in order to present it again. This was confirmed a moment ago by the chairman of the Transport Committee, Karin Svensson Smith. Mr. Old President! I am absolutely convinced that in the industry and in Swedish industry there is an extraordinary interest in and great demand for information about the forms in which the kilometre tax will be presented again by the Swedish Government. I think that representatives of the government parties Social Democrats and the Green Party, who, with the support of the Left Party, have submitted a budget, can here and now describe with what ambition and in what way the proposal for a distance-based road wear charge in Sweden will be presented. I find it difficult to believe that preparations for this are being made without contact with the representatives of the government parties on the parliamentary traffic committee. What is the level of the mileage tax? When does the government intend to introduce it? Karin Svensson Smith mentioned in her speech that they argued for a kilometre tax from an orderly and straight perspective. I think it would be worth having it developed in what way order and order arise using a kilometre tax at the level of 15, 16, 20 or possibly 24 SEK per mile as an additional burden on Swedish haulage industry. Jasenko Omanovic had a long speech, but he did not in any way affect one of the most important competitive conditions for Swedish haulage industry. What does the government intend to do with the revised proposal for a kilometre tax that it intends to introduce? When's it coming? At what level will the mileage tax be set? I think that honourable Members Karin Svensson Smith and Jasenko Omanovic should be given the opportunity to present this here and now. Mr. Old President! A majority in the Committee on Transport and Tourism and also in this House, against which S, MP and V have reservations, consider that the current situation in the haulage sector is very unsatisfactory and that further efforts and measures are needed to strengthen the industry. This view was strengthened by us when representatives of the Transport Agency visited the Transport Committee in March this year. The existence of illegal road traffic on the road makes the conditions different for different companies in the industry and contributes precisely to creating an unhealthy and almost impossible competitive situation. It is therefore important that those who engage in illegal commercial traffic can be detected during checks and, of course, be prosecuted for their crimes. In view of the importance of the haulage industry in linking and supplying Sweden with goods and resources, a majority in this House and in the committee therefore believe that a more robust and concerted approach is now needed to create conditions for competition on equal terms. For this reason, a majority of Parliament is therefore calling for a declaration to the government in this report, against which S, MP and V reserve their reservations, that an investigation is needed to strengthen the competitiveness of the Swedish haulage industry. Mr. Old President! I would add that the wisest thing that the government could do right now would be to kick-start such an investigation and, at the same time, to announce that the ambition is being scrapped to introduce a distance-based road wear charge that would only exacerbate the situation of an already exposed industry. Finally, I should like to mention the customer responsibility. Of course, a transport of goods does not go around without someone ordering the transport. Someone, a buyer of the shipment, has ordered and paid for it. For freight forwarders and freight buyers, it is not often obvious that the freight prices paid cannot provide cover for the costs incurred by hauliers if the freight is to be carried out in a serious and legal manner in terms of wages, driving time rules, taxes and charges. We have legislation for this. There is legislation on ordering responsibility, which means that what is ordered should be legally enforceable. However, experience shows that no responsibility is ever exercised in practice by prosecutors and courts. Although I and the Center Party believe that the industry should primarily contribute to self-remediation, we can see that there is also a need for much clearer rules and accountability from those who order a transport as a means of overcoming unhealthy competition. Mr. Old President! Of course, I support the reservations expressed by the Center Party in the report, but for the time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 6.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-289	Mr. Old President! I thank Anders Åkesson for a good speech. In your exercise dealing with commercial traffic, you don't even mention anyone who works in the industry. It was a mistake. In your speech now, Anders Åkesson, I have once again heard you talk about distance-based taxation and other things. But I do not hear anything about you thinking that the 61 000 members of the Transport Workers' Association are also exposed to unfair competition. The survival of this skilled profession is in some way also threatened. I do not hear anything about this in your speech. It's a lot about taxes. As far as competitive advantages are concerned, there are in fact two parts to this. It's the haulage industry and the workers in the haulage industry. This is a whole for us Social Democrats. It is not possible to pick up just one page, but we actually have to look at the whole picture. But you are turning a blind eye to a large part of this. We still have no self-driving trucks in Sweden. Someone's got to be behind the wheel. Do you have a plan? Can you extend a hand to us when it comes to somehow securing the conditions for those who are behind the wheel and driving lorries in this country?
i-94083c28b6fa802a-291	Mr. Old President! I think it is clear to everyone, but perhaps not to Mr Jasenko, that the concept of commercial transport refers to the whole industry – vehicles, industry and, of course, employees. If it had been the Committee on Economic Affairs that had debated and used the concept of the automotive industry, it would obviously have meant both the employee on the floor in Torslanda or elsewhere and the structure Volvo AB. I think it is clear to everyone that this is what we intend and nothing else. But now take the opportunity, Jasenko Omanovic, to provide information about what is important also for Swedish industry as a whole and in particular for competitive conditions and other conditions for Swedish haulage industry. When and in what way does the Swedish government, which Mr Jasenko represents in the Swedish parliament and which consists of social democrats and environmental partners and which presents budgets with the support of the Left Party, intend to come back with the proposal regarding a kilometre tax or a distance-based road wear charge? We are extremely excited to hear about this.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-293	Mr. Old President! I would like to add to what I have said. Anders Åkesson says that it is obvious that the industry consists of different parts, where the employees in this industry are part of it. You have four passages in your exercise, but you do not mention in any area anyone who works in this industry. It is a common moti on from all parties on your side, and it is supported by the Swedish Democrats. But there is not a single mention of the employees in the industry. As I said, there is a truck mentioned, and 74 tonnes are mentioned. There are some sensible things we have decided on, such as 74 tonnes. So there is a lot of sense, but it is not the whole thing. You have to understand that there is a whole. A truck does not roll by itself; there is a driver behind the wheel. You must understand that this part is also important for the industry. Or is it only when you talk about wage costs and social security contributions that you find there is a driver? In fact, Mr President-in-Office, I think that we should talk about it as well. Now I have only 18 seconds of speaking time left, but I would like to say that at the moment there is nothing ready with regard to the road traffic tax. But we will work with competitive advantages and all that is possible in terms of increasing competitive advantages for the haulage industry.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-296	Mr. Old President! I note that of the two minutes available for a reply, 16 seconds were used not to answer the question I asked about when and in what way the Swedish Government intends to present a revised proposal on kilometre tax. It is a proposal which lacks a majority in this House and which, if introduced, would pose a dramatic threat which further complicates the conditions for Swedish haulage industry and those who are employed there. In the announcement made by a majority in committee, against which the Social Democrats and Omanovic have reserved themselves, we call for a state inquiry to further improve and provide the conditions for the Swedish haulage industry. That is where we mention salaries, salaries, taxes and contributions. It is clear that this concerns the whole industry. This applies to 60 000 to 80 000 drivers and to all hauliers in different structures. Make sure the investigation is in place! Make sure you listen to the majority of Parliament. Scratch the mileage! Conduct the investigation so that we improve and secure competitive conditions for Swedish haulage industry through all available means. It is good for the workers in the haulage industry, and it is good for the industry itself. But it is above all good for the Swedish business community as a whole and all the jobs it covers – and for Swedish welfare. That is the good advice I want to give to the current government: listen to the majority of the parliament, and do as it says!
i-94083c28b6fa802a-300	Mr. Old President! As regards the conditions in the haulage industry, several important legislative changes have already been made in order to improve compliance and promote competition on equal terms for Swedish haulage companies. Among other things, the Swedish Transport Agency is now tasked with following up on implemented reforms in cabotage transport and measures to prevent further travel. It is also part of the mission to investigate whether to extend the suspension of the continued journey for longer than 24 hours, as requested. So there are investigations underway. You should also look at whether you can allow minor deviations from driving and rest times, and I hope that this is balanced on the basis of road safety and that those who drive the trucks actually get the rest time they need. We will also review combined transport. The combined transport directive has been an obstacle to cabotage, so to speak, which has caused major problems for the Swedish haulage industry. Much is therefore under way and, as we have heard earlier in the debate, it will be finalized on 1 May. We therefore await the investigation and then see what we will want to push forward. There have been a lot of problems in the haulage industry, in many ways, and the Swedish Tax Agency recently published a report that the agency has caught up with problems with tax evasion in the transport sector. It is being cheated in a wide range of ways, and we need to take strong action to tackle the problems. After all, the basis is European policy – that we have liberalised, released labour law and allowed the market to take too much space. It is the company's playhouse, I would actually say, although they probably see it as just wanting to get bigger wine s ter. In fact, however, the rich have become so much richer that even economists point out that this is a problem. Now we see how to dump working conditions in many transport sectors; both the haulage industry and the taxi industry are horribly hard hit. This is a bit in the final line – you want to sell your goods cheaply as a producer, and then transport is an important part of pushing prices in. It is therefore a natural mechanism, which can easily arise if we release market forces and do not have sound regulations for workers. We will then lose the very balance between workers and employers, which actually strikes back on production itself. It affects everyone, and it affects road safety. In both blocks, we are now fighting a little bit to steer the haulage industry, but we should nevertheless bear in mind that the basis of the whole is a liberalised industry – that the regulation of working conditions has been released through the entry into the European Union. We in the Left Party are pleased with what is on the table and what is being investigated, but we would also like to go further in the field of haulage. We have often stated in the debate that we would like to introduce the Dutch model, which has come a long way in terms of increasing wages, improving working conditions and bringing collective agreements into the haulage industry. It is about regulating F-tax notes so that you cannot have just one client. In many sectors, not only in the haulage industry, this is a way of abandoning collective bargaining. This is therefore a measure that we believe we could win many victories in terms of the erosion of labour law that we see in many areas. We also want to review the taxi business. It is also an industry where Sweden has gone the furthest way with deregulation. It is very strange – first Sweden was in the front line in the world when it comes to equality, and a role model that the world could look at, and all of a sudden Sweden has liberalised the most when it comes to, for example, the taxi industry and profits in welfare. Only Pinochet and Sweden allow profits in school activities and so on. So it's a strange situation, but now we're here and we have to control it. We will follow what is happening in the taxi industry. It is a good measure that we have introduced price information before, i.e. that the customer should know how expensive it will be when travelling by taxi if the price exceeds 500 SEK, but we will certainly have to do more in the future. We have seen that the working environment for taxi drivers has become very tough. Many wear themselves out, and we have heard about heart problems and many other stories. It is an industry that suffers in some places in Sweden, especially the big cities, because the conditions have been dumped so much. This also affects passenger transport services, which are dependent on a taxi. It is people who are vulnerable – disabled people and people who may have, for example, autism – and who have been affected by the fact that we have dumped the conditions in this industry. They experience tremendous stress when they wait for their traveling service and never know whether to come or not, or when it is complicated in different ways. So there is a whole range of things we need to get to grips with. The Left Party has also left a motion for better compensation when it does not work as a first step. However, we will follow this further. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-313	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 7, but I naturally support all the proposals in which the Liberals are present. Mr. Old President! The agricultural industry has a very important role to play in the Swedish economy. It has been mentioned that the haulage industry represents 4% of GDP, and it is a very important sector. Despite its importance for the bnp, the committee notes that the Swedish haulage industry finds it difficult to assert itself in international competition. The majority of the committee has proposed a declaration that further measures are needed to strengthen the competitiveness of the haulage industry. It will be interesting to hear here in the debate where the dividing lines go in committee. We have heard the discussion on the proposed road user tax. Today we cannot really get an answer when it comes and what it contains. Another issue mentioned in the debate concerns the 74 tonnes of heavy goods vehicles. There has also been disagreement in committee. This issue is also about competitiveness and opportunities for industry to operate. Against this announcement, the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party have reserved themselves, and it is a little interesting on what basis they have done so. Mr. Old President! The legislative changes implemented in 2015 in order to contribute to better compliance in professional traffic are important and a step in the right direction. The committee also welcomes the fact that the Transport Agency was commissioned on 1 October to follow up on the reforms that have been carried out. It examines, among other things, cabotage transport, measures to prevent further travel and the possibility of allowing minor deviations from the rules on driving and rest times. It is also a question of whether the current regulation of customer liability creates sufficient conditions for order and order in the transport industry. It is positive that the Swedish Transport Agency has received a directive to consult the Police Authority, the Finnish Customs Agency and the National Board of Trade and Industry and the social partners involved in the implementation of the mission. There will be a final report. At the same time, the committee notes that there are significant problems in the field of road transport which weaken the competitiveness of the Swedish haulage industry. The Swedish Tax Agency has noted in a report that the proportion of companies that feel that they are exposed to competition from companies that tax fraud has decreased between 2007 and 2013 in all sectors except transport. As regards the competitiveness of the Swedish haulage industry, the committee notes that in February 2017, the Roadwear Committee presented a study on distance-based road wear tax for heavy goods vehicles. It is interesting here that the government parties obviously do not fully agree on how to view the road user tax and its implementation. We hear that the Social Democrats do not really want to respond when it comes and in what way. On the other hand, the chairman of the committee, Karin Svensson Smith, is very clear that there will be a proposal and that there are also further arguments for the proposal – now it is also a register. Further efforts and measures are needed to strengthen competitiveness. These need to be carried out more coherently and forcefully than is the case with the investigative efforts that already exist. There is also a disagreement on these issues that needs to be clarified. Representatives of the Swedish Transport Agency visited the Transport Committee on 21 March 2017, and it is quite clear that there is more to be done in this area. Unlawful professional traffic on our roads makes the conditions different for different companies in the haulage industry. Measures are needed to create the conditions for a healthy competitive environment. It is important that those who engage in illegal commercial traffic can be detected during checks and prosecuted for this offence. The committee therefore believes that the Riksdag should address an announcement to the Government that an investigation is needed to urgently strengthen the competitiveness of the Swedish haulage industry. There is an impatience, because this is a major and important issue for the Swedish economy. Mr. Old President! I want to say something about cabotage. Advance planning and preparedness for the future development of road transport are needed. It is important to emphasise the importance of fair competition in the road haulage sector. There are those who ignore cabotage regulations. The Swedish application of cabotage rules needs to be tightened up, and it must be easier to control infringements. Today, the Swedish Transport Agency is responsible for supervision. This supervision aims at high compliance, high road safety, equal competition and healthy working conditions. Cabotage transport is about professional temporary domestic transport. Where transport is of a temporary nature, a penalty may be imposed. If transport is not temporary, it is not cabotage transport. In the case of illegal commercial traffic, it is a crime and something for the public court. If cabotage transport does not meet the conditions, it is a penalty charge in the administrative court. Of course, there are also permitted cabotage services, which meet the conditions. Here we must continue to look at the development of the issues. The penalty fee is governed by a national regulation. It is the Swedish Transport Agency that investigates and makes final decisions when the Police Authority submits cases regarding sanction fees for cabotage transport. The Swedish Transport Agency is responsible, among other things, for ensuring that legal certainty is taken into account. Mr. Old President! Deviations from driving and rest time rules and a more effective sanctioning system are also affecting developments. The European Commission has announced that in the framework of the road transport package which it intends to present later in the year, it will also present proposals for changes to the current driving and rest time rules. We in the Liberals see a number of important issues in these areas and will follow developments very closely. For example, driving and rest times are not adapted for extraordinary events, which I experienced when I was on a trip in Norrbotten. I was able to see what might happen when there is a snowstorm and an avalanche – when the train stands still and alternative means of transporting people have to be found. It can then be noted that the regulatory framework is not always as accessible and flexible as it would have to be. We think this is an important issue to review. We also believe that the task of the Swedish Transport Agency – to review whether minor deviations from the rules on driving and rest times can be allowed – is an important task. The assignment includes, among other things, examining, in the light of the more generous interpretations of driving and rest rules made in Denmark, whether it is compatible with EU rules in the field of introducing a similar system in Sweden. We in the Liberals will closely monitor the Swedish Transport Agency's work. We believe in greater flexibility. We believe that there must be room for further interpretation, and we look forward to the reporting that will take place. Mr. Old President! I will touch on taxis, the sharing economy and the new opportunities there in the next debate, which deals with fossil-independent transport. Finally, sound rules are needed. We need fair competition, good compliance and a high level of road safety on our roads. Professional traffic contributes to Sweden's growth.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-344	Mr. Old President! The Swedish haulage industry consists of approximately 10 000 haulage companies, which together have a turnover of more than SEK 100 billion. This represents 4% of Sweden's gross domestic product. The agricultural industry is essential to society's commodity production and actively contributes to the development of our country. By allowing goods and goods to be transported collectively, CO2 emissions reduce significantly more than if individual companies were to be responsible for the freight themselves. Swedish haulage industry is currently exposed to fierce and unhealthy international competition. At the same time as Swedish truck drivers pay thousands of Swedish kronor in cases of infringements of driving and rest times, many foreign road hauliers drive longer than is permitted by EU rules. The fraud in the haulage industry is widespread and must be taken very seriously. Miserable operators ignore environmental and cabotage rules. There is a risk that this will knock out serious players in the market. It is important to review the conditions in the haulage industry in order to contribute to regulatory compliance and to promote competition on equal terms. The Christian Democrats therefore welcome a committee initiative by the alliance parties announcing to the government that an urgent investigation to strengthen the competitiveness of the Swedish haulage industry needs to be carried out. Mr. Old President! There is today an orderer responsibility that means that it will be possible to carry out the assignment in a legal manner. Some procurements are carried out by subcontractors, and there is a lack of control at the points. It is a chain of different actors, and therefore the client responsibility should be tightened up so that everything is done properly. Although we believe that the industry should primarily contribute to self-remediation, we can see that clearer rules are also needed for customer responsibility. The Christian Democrats advocate ordering responsibility for the whole journey. Mr. Old President! It is gratifying that since 1 July 2016, it has been possible to trample vehicles that violate the cabotage rules and are required to pay a penalty fee for infringements of the cabotage rules. Cabotage transport, foreign carriers carrying out an international transport operation, is entitled to carry out up to three domestic transport operations in a country other than the Member State of establishment within a seven-day period after the international transport operation has been carried out. However, it has turned out that this rule is not being complied with by certain hauliers. In a parliamentary decision from 2015, mentioned earlier, the Christian Democrats' proposal to lock the vehicle down until the penalty fee is paid has been passed. I assume that the government will now urgently come back with proposals that will make this possible. At present, a vehicle may only be trampled for 24 hours. The Christian Democrats want to make it possible to trample vehicles until the penalty fee is paid to deal with the fraud. Mr. Old President! The Christian Democrats have been proposing longer and heavier lorries for a long time to make goods transport more efficient. It will be cheaper for business to get the goods transported, and it will be more environmentally friendly because fewer trucks transport more goods at a time. On the initiative of the alliance parties, the committee has issued a notice to the government to make this possible. On 16 February, the Government decided on the bill Freight Transport Issues. The proposal proposes opening parts of the road network to trucks with a total weight of 74 tonnes on roads where transport by rail or shipping is not possible. The proposal is very restrictive and sets different modes of transport against each other. By allowing heavier and longer trucks of up to 74 tonnes on the Swedish road network, emissions from road transport can be reduced while the cost of transport to industry is reduced. I wonder if I am on the right report. I don't think so. Mr. Old President, I think I brought the wrong paper. Can I get my papers from the bench?
i-94083c28b6fa802a-354	Mr. Old President! I'll keep it short. Mr Jasenko, representing the Social Democrats, spoke in the speaker's chair of 61 000 members who are road hauliers. It sounded like there was a trade union discussion in this House. In this debate we are talking about cabotage, rest periods, environmental requirements and customer responsibility. All of this affects these particular skiers. It is about improving their working conditions and allowing them to keep their jobs and not being out-competed by foreign hauliers in an unsound way. This also applies to domestic hauliers who may exploit different rules and knock each other out in an unsympathetic way. Mr Jasenko said that there was an alliance motion which he did not like and which did not affect the conditions of these 61,000 drivers. Everything we are talking about today is precisely about their conditions, because if we do not have a very neutral market with competition on equal terms in the haulage industry, these particular people may eventually be out of work. The agricultural industry is of great importance for Swedish growth, job creation and is of great importance for freight transport in the country. All these demands that have been mentioned before – I have also mentioned some of them – are being made precisely so that the haulage industry can contribute to growth and be job creation in the future. Mr. Old President! I support the Christian Democrats' reservations Nos 8 and 10.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-357	Mr. Old President! Robert Halef speaks in the speaker's seat of 74 tons. It is a debate that we will have on 27 April, so you are welcome back then, Robert Halef. I couldn't stay away from asking for a line, because Robert Halef tells me that I'm lifting up a motion. I am raising the motion that is the basis for our reservation, the motion that you have in common in the Alliance with the support of the Swedish Democrats. That's the one I'm lifting up here. It's motion 2016/ 17:2530, motion 17. Everything else is beautifully described, but there is nothing about those who work in professional traffic. That is my point of view. I'm not a union representative or anything like that here. I just want to explain to you that an industry is not just a business. It consists of companies and employees. It's about the conditions for them together. What you're bringing up is great, Robert Halef. All these drivers must be trained in safety and environmental thinking, in those parts. It's their skills that we're fighting for. They add something. With such drivers we can experience road safety on our roads. That's what it's all about. But you forget that completely.
i-TJjLw4WHSdoah5t4WtUY5s	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Jasenko! The problem is you haven't understood what the exercise is all about. The measures we propose benefit hauliers, and hauliers mean hauliers. You can't separate them from each other. If we want competition on equal terms, so that the haulage companies do not go bankrupt and the people you are talking about– you mentioned that the Swedish Transport Workers' Association has 61 000 members – not to be without work, we need to improve the conditions for the haulage companies. It's connected. You've misunderstood what we're talking about today. Let's put it this way: If a foreign haulage company misbehaves according to the cabotage rules and takes jobs that they are not entitled to, this means that a Swedish haulage company has been knocked out automatically. Then Swedish skiers at home have no job. It seems you haven't understood that logic. What if other countries interpret cabotage rules for driving and rest times in a different way so that our hauliers are fined and ultimately cannot afford to run the haulage company? Well, the drivers, the people you're talking about, are out of work. So it's connected. All these proposals benefit hauliers and hauliers.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-366	Mr. Old President! It's great that you bring those things up, Robert Halef. That is precisely what we want to discuss. How can competitiveness be strengthened? The problem is that what you are talking about is not in the exercise you have signed, which I mention and which forms the basis of our reservation. What you're mentioning now is not in it. Seventy-four tons is on board. Longer trucks are on board. But what you're talking about isn't there. That is the problem in this debate. What you have written about commercial traffic says nothing about the conditions for an employee in the haulage industry. There is no mention of how the employee is exposed to unfair competition. There's nothing about cabotage. That's the problem. You have to start talking about the subject and not about anything entirely different in your motions. What you say in this House and what you write in your motions are not connected. In this House, however, we must stick to what we have written in the motions and what we are calling for. That's the foundation. There has to be some sort of connection between what you talk about and what you call for.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-370	Mr. Old President! I think Jasenko been reading a little bad. This report deals with many areas. Cabotage rules, ordering responsibility, heavy goods vehicles, driving and rest times and environmental requirements are included. So it is a broad report, Mr Jasenko. I just want to explain to you, so that you understand what we are talking about when it comes to tightening up the customer responsibility that we want to do. If you buy a drive and do not have the customer responsibility throughout the journey, you can reduce wages by allowing another company to handle the transport. Then an unserious actor further down the line will make the job cheaper than anyone else who has higher salary costs here at home. That is why we want to tighten up the requirements precisely on these issues, in order to benefit our haulage industry. The industry contributes to growth and is job creation. It's connected. What we do for the hauliers, we do for the riders.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-373	Mr. Old President! I intend to use my time exclusively for the announcement that the Riksdag will send to the government. A majority in the Swedish parliament will give the government the task of reviewing the competitiveness of the Swedish haulage industry. These were harsh words from all parties on the left when it comes to cheating and lack of competition for the Swedish haulage industry. It is good that we have understood where the problem lies. No shadow should fall on the three left parties in this particular respect. The problem is that the conclusion is quite different, Mr. Old President. You're supposed to stop the cheating by reducing the number of traffic policemen on our roads. The aim is to improve the competitiveness of Swedish haulage industry by imposing higher taxes on diesel and introducing a kilometre tax. It's like trying to put out a fire with gas-- not a good solution at all. I find it very difficult to understand why we do not want to review competitiveness. Nevertheless, I have tried; I listened to Jasenko as he stood in the speaker's seat. If you see the same problems as we do, why do you not want to look at where competitiveness is lacking? Perhaps you already know the answer, or you don't want to investigate because you don't want to know what the problem is. My fellow Member, Mr Jasenko, from the Social Democrats, is trying to have a debate that is completely incomprehensible if you are familiar with the issue. He is trying to make it seem that the alliance parties do not want to review the situation of workers in the haulage industry. This is precisely what it is all about in the end, about ensuring the competitiveness of Swedish haulage companies, to ensure decent working conditions in Sweden for those working in the haulage industry and to ensure that we have decent wages. That's what this is all about. But if the Swedish companies only receive additional taxes and burdens, they will not be able to cope with the competition, the fairest competition. However, we have one more problem. It is the unruly competition that the Swedish haulage industry is exposed to every day. You face the unfair and illegal competition that does not comply with laws and regulations and does not pay taxes and charges. Your solutions to that, Jasenko Omanovic, are additional taxes that will certainly not be paid. The solution cannot reasonably be to further reduce the Swedish haulage industry. Mr. Old President! You may want to handle the haulage industry in the same way as you want to handle Nordea. When someone finally says, "Stop!" We can't take any more taxes, says the Minister of Finance of the Social Democrats, but maybe it's better if you leave. Then you won't be needed anymore. Is that how you see the haulage industry, too? They say you can't do it this way. If your answer is then, move elsewhere! You are not needed in Sweden? The jobs involved are 86 000. I'm behind all the moderate claims. But for time winning, I only agree to reservation 5.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-383	Mr. Old President! It's interesting to hear Edward Riedl. He is a member of the party that has been in government for eight years. For eight years, we did not hear a single proposal from the Alliance Government to improve the conditions and competitiveness of the haulage industry – eight years! Cabotage rules were introduced in October 2009. It was so clear in 16 chapters. that each Member State must determine the conditions for punishing those who do not comply with these rules. The government of Reinfeldt was in power for five years without doing anything. When the Government took Löfven, it was the first thing that was done here in the Riksdag to develop rules for cabotage and classing. The Transport Agency was given the task of going through every point you raise here in the speaker's chair. You raise a lot of points about driving and rest times and ordering responsibilities. But everything is already under way, and there will be a report on 1 May. But you're running your own race. You don't want to cooperate. To be honest, I don't know what you're up to. What's this about? It is not about competitiveness. You had eight years, and it was five years ago that a provision was introduced. You did nothing.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-387	Mr. Old President! Let me make it clear to those who listen to the debate that the first thing that the Government Löfven upon taking office was to set up an investigation to introduce a kilometre tax that is an additional burden on the haulage industry. The second thing you did was to increase diesel tax so that it becomes even more expensive, becomes less margins and less opportunities to pay decent wages for those who work in the haulage industry. Then, and I give it to you, you took the ready-made proposals of the Alliance Government – now Jasenko laughs, because now he's starting to blush a little – to work out, and then you put them on Parliament's table. We agreed across party and block borders on all these measures. It was good that they were taken. In addition to this, however, we need to do many more things. A majority in Parliament has told this government that you must hurry with it. Clarification must be possible for more than 24 hours. With an increased customer responsibility you make the whole chain work. In the area by area, the alliance parties by announcement drag the government parties after themselves. You'll have tasks to solve, but you'll make it very slow. You could work so much faster on these issues. We eagerly await what the government will deliver later in the spring. But this announcement is about reviewing this broad, as was the case with agriculture. It is about ensuring fair conditions of competition for those who work and those who run companies in these industries. Why the three left parties are opposed to this is completely incomprehensible to me, Mr President-in-Office. Why are we opposed to fair conditions in the haulage industry? Can you explain to me, Jasenko, why you're against this?
i-94083c28b6fa802a-392	Mr. Old President! The question is, of course, why Edward Riedl and the Reinfeldt Government did nothing for eight years to improve conditions. Did you take any action for eight years? No. The committee commissioned the investigation into cabotage rules and a number of announcements were made to the government. When at the last minute you realized that you could lose the election, you threw out something that you could use in the election movement, and we made a workshop out of it. You didn't do anything for eight years, but we made sure it was a workshop. Later in the spring there will be a proposal. It's about 12 days, Mr. Old President. Then there will be answers to all the questions raised by Edward Riedl – order responsibility and classing. But if you want it investigated properly and if you want order, you can wait and see what the police, customs, haulage industry and unions have come up with together. What have they discovered? But you don't want to wait. You want theater here in Parliament. That's what it's about, and nothing else, Mr. Old President.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-396	Mr. Old President! Now a majority of this Parliament will vote through an announcement that gives the government a mandate that the government is obliged to return with. It is about reviewing the Swedish competitive situation in the haulage industry in order to get an overall picture of what works well, what works less well and what distinguishes us from our competitor countries. This whole investigation is about securing long-term jobs in Sweden, ensuring that the regions remain in Sweden and ensuring that those working in the haulage industry have decent wages and decent working conditions. What happens when the margins are as small as they are right now is that there will be a competition down to the bottom on working conditions and wages. Sweden should not be there, but Sweden should make sure to take a broad approach to solving this. We will ensure that there will be order on Swedish roads again. Mr. Old President! I still cannot understand why the Left parties are opposed to this. It is ultimately about the people who sit behind the wheel and drive. What are their working conditions? What wages are they supposed to pay? This will ultimately be determined by the competitive situation. This government is constantly weakening competitiveness. We need to introduce mileage taxes. You raise the diesel tax. This will result in less competitiveness, less margins and less opportunities to pay decent wages and have decent working conditions. We from the alliance parties do not want it that way. Why the government is against this is beyond my understanding. The only thing we have heard from Mr Jasenko is that working conditions are not included, but the government parties themselves state in their reservation that this is being dealt with by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, and we also note this in our text.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-401	Mr. Old President! During my speech, I was careless with my motion. I am in favour of reservation 9 and nothing else. I note that Mr Omanovic devotes a great deal of energy to a history of what happened in 2015. There was legislation adopted in this House on tougher action against negligence, cheating, cabotage and so on. It is quite right that the decision was taken in this House in 2015, and the bill was presented by current Minister for Infrastructure Anna Johansson. But the preparations for this were made by the Alliance government, and the decision was made in complete agreement. Now we want to see some action from the current government as well.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-404	Mr. Old President! Some of the bourgeois debaters make themselves a little more stupid in the debate than they need to be. Everyone knows that if there had been a complete proposal on distance-based road wear tax, it would have been on the table. But there is no such proposal, and it does not, because the study that was presented was not good enough from a regional point of view. Nor was it good enough for foreign carriers. These are two of the reasons given by the government not to proceed with the investigation. If there had been a proposal, it would have been out for a referral today. It is also very strange that these issues are not addressed where they belong, namely in the Committee on Taxation. Today we are voting on a report on excise duties. In this report there are motions on precisely the road-wear tax and, hear and be amazed, moreover, about the air tax, which is another recurring issue from the bourgeois. No one has asked for the approval of these motions – not one of the bourgeois and not one of the Swedish democrats. This means that a united House today will reject these motions, which is a good thing. I have said it before, and I say it again: The Moderates seem to be the best in opposition. I have never heard Edward Riedl speak with such ferocity about the conditions of the haulage industry. Throughout the time when he was in the majority, we saw more about what is happening. The twenties of announcements that we made during that time were not dealt with at all by the then government. Only after we had packed up in the Riksdag did a bill finally come in the spring of 2014 from the fantastic bourgeois government that we had before. What was that about? Well, clapping for 24 hours. It was about a sanction fee that that government really wanted to be at 20 000. However, we forced it up to 40 000 through certain actions. This meant that, at least, we had something on the table to decide on after the previous government had been allowed to leave the elections. The decisions we made at the time were good, but they were far from sufficient. The proposals that will bring this to a better system of things, classing for longer than 24 hours and so on, will come, as Mr Jasenko said before. Such proposals will come on 1 May. Now we have a government that takes announcements seriously and sees what can be done about it. In the past we had a government that ignored announcements and came back in just a few words: we are not going to do this, because it is not in the policy of this government. That's what happened back then. Now it's different.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-411	Mr. Old President! I would like to thank Leif Pettersson for mentioning as the first representative of the government parties in this parliamentary debate, in addition to the Green Party's member of the Transport Committee, the study on mileage taxes. It was like this, Mr. Age President: On 26 February, on Sunday, Magdalena Andersson, the country's finance minister, had the same information about what Pettersson said from the speaker's chair, namely that the investigation was not up to date. I think it was the exceptionally strong pressure from trade unions, industry, the haulage industry and one or two political parties that made the resistance to be too great, not least from the rural, northern Sweden, that Leif Pettersson is elected from to Parliament. There it became completely grotesquely obvious what damage a distance-based road wear charge would do. On 1 March, the report was presented by Vilhelm Andersson in connection with a seminar, which I had the pleasure of attending. Investigator Vilhelm Andersson noted that it is not so often you get cut off by your client two days before you will deliver the final result, especially since the commissioning department officials have been present throughout the investigation and had no comments on it. The decision is that the preparation now continues internally at the Government Office. I find it difficult to imagine that members representing the government parties on the parliamentary Transport Committee who are as many years old in the Transport Committee as Leif Pettersson are exempt from knowledge of this investigation. It would be interesting to have an account of the focus of internal work on the mileage tax. And when is a proposal to be made? Is it in connection with the autumn budget?
i-94083c28b6fa802a-415	Mr. Old President! To these questions I cannot answer anything, because I know nothing about it. I do not think anyone today knows when proposals on the kilometre tax will be made. I do not believe that even in the Government Office you can venture such a guess. The question is not, moreover, dealt with by us in the Transport Committee, as Anders Åkesson very well knows. It is handled by our colleagues in the Committee on Taxation. They are the ones who are in charge of the issue of the road user tax. Possibly this is where you could start looking for answers to the questions that Åkesson has. We in the Transport Committee may be able to put the question to the Minister for Infrastructure, but she does not know what is going on in the Ministry of Finance about this very thing. I think both me and Anders Åkesson will have to give us some patience. Then we'll see when the department might come up with something more. As I said at the time of the previous investigation, I cannot definitely say that there is indeed a proposal. Perhaps it turns out that the issues are too big and too difficult to deal with, so that we cannot move forward. The future will tell. You can't say anything about that today. I think the most remarkable thing about the issue is that no one from the bourgeois side was in favour of the motions on which we will vote later today in the Chamber at the vote. I can only interpret this in one way: the Tax Committee does not think the issue is as important as Åkesson thinks.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-419	Mr. Old President! I believe that we in this House have experienced something quite extraordinary at the moment. Here is a member from Parliament's Transport Committee, where the ultra-important haulage industry is discussed. The industry itself is the bloodstream of the industry that exists throughout our country: the forest industry, the mineral industry, the construction industry and all of it. There, of course, a kilometre tax of SEK 20 - 26 per mile for domestic vehicles would dramatically change the conditions for operating. This is not just about the haulage industry, it is about the whole business community. On the question of how this transfer of the mileage tax is being discussed, a representative of one of the government parties is saying that he knows nothing. He refers to parliamentary structures with tax committees, business committees and traffic committees as grounds for not knowing anything. That is extraordinary. Is the entire Socialist parliamentary group exempt from influence knowledge of one of the most important issues in Swedish transport and business policy? I ask the question, and Pettersson can, of course, give an answer. During the debate, however, I have an obvious feeling that the chairman of the Transport Committee, Karin Svensson Smith from the Green Party, is more familiar and knowledgeable in the preparation work. But despite the opportunity to take a line, she refrains from saying anything. Could it be that the issue is the subject of a tough internal negotiation? At least Pettersson could account for that.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-422	Mr. Old President! It is of course the case with this issue, as with all other issues, that we can discuss proposals when they exist, not before. Something else is just speculating or pure speculation in general. I cannot, as little as anyone else could under any previous governments, talk about how the work goes inside the Government Office in those parts that I do not have any insight into. Of course, I have no insight into how the Ministry of Finance operates. That goes without saying. We will probably have to wait until there is a possible proposal on this issue. Then we shall continue the discussion. I think it is important to highlight regional issues. Åkesson is right – there was a massive criticism, among other things, from northern Sweden. It has to be handled in some way if you are to put forward another proposal. Nor with regard to the foreign carriers in Sweden had the investigation come up with good enough proposals that would have made us feel confident that they would have to pay. The point of such a system is that Swedish and foreign hauliers pay in exactly the same way. An increasing number of EU countries are switching to this type of tax, which is also advocated by the European Commission. Then we will see how Sweden will do it. We don't know that yet.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-426	Mr. Old President! What we have to deal with today is an announcement, that is, that a majority in the Swedish Parliament gives the government a mandate. It is very sad, Mr President-in-Office, that the two government parties and their partners are against this. It's better to agree. What I cannot understand, Mr President-in-Office, is why one is opposed to taking a holistic approach and reviewing the competitiveness of the Swedish haulage industry in a European context, regardless of all the investigations that lie ahead. Swedish haulage companies will compete against haulage companies from other countries in Europe. If you take a broad approach and look at the competitive situation, Mr President-in-Office, you can also draw conclusions from it and make good proposals, hopefully in as broad a consensus as possible. I know that the Parliamentary Committee Leif Pettersson from the Social Democrats has a great deal of commitment and knowledge on these issues. That is why I sincerely put the question to him, Mr President-in-Office: why are you opposed to this? What do you think is missing from this broad holistic approach? After all, we agreed to review competition for agriculture. I don't know what the difference is. We have an industry that is having a very tough time right now. Your colleagues have also testified to that. This applies to legal competition, but also to illegal and unfair competition. Why are you opposed to taking a broad holistic approach and reviewing this?
i-94083c28b6fa802a-429	Mr. Old President! Edward Riedl must have got this wrong. It is not at all the case that competition issues are not being looked at today. The Swedish Transport Agency has the task of doing exactly what is being said in the announcement. This is done annually in a report that talks about how the competitive situation is developing for Swedish haulage industry. From that we have then come to the conclusion that we have to do certain things – the clamping and so on. The assignments shall be presented on 1 May. Some of the assignments would have been reported earlier, but it turned out that it was more difficult than expected to investigate, so it has been longer. This applies, for example, to the issue of customer responsibility. You might think that's a simple thing, but legally speaking, it's a very complicated thing to look at. I must say that I greeted Robert Halef's reply here in the debate with satisfaction. He said that he sees from the Christian Democrats that this must apply in all directions. When we were out discussing this on Lidingö with the haulage industry and the unions were not so clear from those who were on your side. But you, Edward, can now say in this context that you are also behind such a focus of customer responsibility, where each line must live up to the customer responsibility and where one cannot escape it by forwarding a mission, which unfortunately can be done with the customer responsibility we have today. It does not fulfil the function, and that is why no one has been prosecuted either.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-432	Mr. Old President! I know exactly how hard it is to do things. Parliament colleague Leif Pettersson says that it is tricky with the increased client responsibility. I understand that. We've had different sides before, so I know just how hard it can be. Sometimes it slows down and takes time when you want to get suggestions. We are in complete agreement on this. It is a united parliament with regard to the increased client responsibility, so we have no differences of opinion on the substance of the matter. It is clear that this must apply at all stages. This is what increased customer responsibility is actually about: One should not be able to have middle-level and then swear free from it being done by unsyst methods. This is what Parliament has said to the government that we want back. I still do not understand, Mr President-in-Office, what distinguishes this area from agriculture. As far as the situation of agriculture is concerned, we agreed to conduct a broad and thorough competitiveness investigation. It is the same situation and the same order in the haulage industry. Or is Leif Pettersson's view, Mr. Age President, that there are less problems in the haulage industry than in Swedish agriculture? If that is not the case, then I do not understand why we are opposed to taking the same broad approach in order to gain control of these issues, so that we can ultimately deliver good proposals. In this way, Swedish competitiveness and Swedish jobs can be secured, as well as decent working conditions and decent wages in Sweden. That is what it is all about in the end, and I do not think Leif Pettersson is against this, Mr President-in-Office.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-435	Mr. Old President! No, I'm definitely not, and that's exactly what it's all about. But if we were to follow your suggestion and set up an investigation, it would take one or two years before that investigation was completed. If you're going to take such a broad grip, it'll take a while. Over the two years, I believe that we have time to take a great deal of the action that needs to be taken. I think we don't have much time in some of these areas. Progress is fast. We have not yet seen anyone hiring temporary workers to drive forest raw materials to sawmills. But I think it's only a matter of time before the first ride will do so. It's fast when it starts to break at the edge, so to speak, and then you have to be more fast-footed than to set up an investigation in a couple of years. Instead, I think we can do something like this: we are looking at what action we need to take. Then we take those measures, without having to carry out a long investigation into the matter. I think that's a smarter path. Tit take on what comes out on 1 May and implement it! If that is not enough, or if there are further proposals that we want to move forward with, then we are moving forward. That way we will arrive much faster than if we set up an investigation. We can have it or lose it. The assignment is already with the Swedish Transport Agency. There is not a corresponding assignment in agriculture. There is no authority that has the task of looking at the competitiveness of agriculture. But there is for the haulage industry. The Swedish Transport Agency already has that mission. I think that's important to remember.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-440	Mr. Old President! Much has been said about the mileage tax. I would like to mention a few words about a model put forward by several players and, among other things, Ostkusthamnar in collaboration. It is very beneficial in many ways. It's a regionally based mileage tax. This means that Sweden is divided into different regions or different zones. That's very good. This would be beneficial for the Swedish haulage industry because long-distance transport is disadvantaged while within the region to which one belongs, so to speak, it is not so severely affected by the mileage tax. It is when you move between regions that you get a higher kilometre tax. This would benefit the short journeys that we want to see to shipping and rail as quickly as possible. It would put the very transport that threatens to compete out of shipping and rail at a disadvantage. It is a very good model that I hope all parties want to look at. It is a way to get control of the haulage industry through the GPS that you have in all cars so that you have more track of which foreign drivers it is and which Swedish drivers it is, how they are registered and how they behave. In this way, the Swedish haulage industry and the competitiveness of it are being promoted very well.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-444	Mr. Old President! This was very exciting. The large government party consistently refrains from knowing anything at all about the mileage tax that is apparently to be presented, while the Green Party and the Left Party, which are budget bases for the government and Magdalena Andersson, are opening up for and reporting that there are intense and concrete discussions going on. Here we got a concrete input from Emma Wallrup on a regionally based kilometre tax. I have to ask Emma Wallrup a question, which has taken part in the investigation and seems to defend it, and which is part of a government basis. What size is a region, and in which regions, according to Mr Wallrup, would it be possible for the free zones to be transported? I am deeply interested in the question.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-446	Mr. Old President! I don't have any such details. I do not want to go into the negotiations themselves or anything like that. This is an idea that has been presented and which is there to work on. We will see how parties will stand up to it from different directions and how they will work. I'm not going into anything about it. I just wanted to mention that model because it exists, it is mentioned by several actors, it is very positive and it achieves many of the objectives we are pursuing. I'm afraid I can't say more than that. Nor do I have information on any further details of negotiations on this.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-449	Mr. Old President! I'm sorry about Emma Wallrup. It is clear that it is interesting when a representative of a budget party in the Swedish Parliament stands up and makes a statement in a debate in which the opposition has sought and denied further information. Members from the Social Democrats seem to be almost ignorant of an ongoing investigation. Then there is a concrete proposal from the party that has a huge influence on the draft budget that will be presented this autumn. That's the way it is. The Left Party usually triumphs that they have succeeded in one and the other. It is clear that one takes the opportunity to ask when a whole new card is put on the table in terms of mileage tax. Let me exemplify the problem, Mr. President-in-Office. Last week I visited a company in Sunne, Moelven Skog AB in Värmlandsnäs. They produce about 90 000 square metres of heated living area and activity area per year especially for disposal in Mälardalen. It is a company like Moelven in Värmlandsnäs – a lot of them are down with me in Småland, Skåne and northern Sweden – that can meet the challenge of housing shortage in Mälardalen, for example. The distance between Mälardalen and Värmland is in round turns 40 – 500 km on road transport. I have a specific question for Emma Wallrup. Would this be to be seen as a regional or long-distance transport in the Left Party's vision of a kilometre tax?
i-94083c28b6fa802a-453	Mr. Old President! As I said, I do not want to anticipate anything. I like to discuss policy concretely in the speaker's seat and not always throw pie at each other, come from block sides and parties and just position themselves but try to put concrete things into the debate that can solve problems. We politicians should deal with problem solving rather than positioning because we have responsibility for Sweden and the Swedish population. We have very big questions on our table. The Swedish population is rather tired of positioning. It wants concrete results and policies to move forward. That's why I wanted to bring this model in because it has a lot of interesting advantages. But I cannot anticipate any negotiation or any such thing. All I know is that it is the actors who have probably met your side of the block that have developed this model that is very suitable. It must be balanced in a positive way so that we simply benefit the Swedish haulage industry in a good way, take account of regional needs and balance it with rail and maritime transport. I can tell you that much today.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-458	Mr. Old President, Chamber and everyone who listens! I support the committee's proposal in the report, which I support on behalf of the Green Party. This is a report on many things. For many years, we have been debating climate issues piece by piece. Either we are talking about road traffic, air transport, maritime transport or some other sector where we need to reduce the climate impact. What is a little special about the Transport Committee's approach here is that we are talking about a fossil-independent transport sector. We're trying to see the bigger picture in that. We know that oil needs to be replaced. But we also need to think a little wisely so that the raw materials and renewables with which we are going to replace the oil are not mortgaged more than once. Both maritime transport and aviation as well as road transport will need biological raw materials as a substitute for fossil fuel. The government's work is based on an investigation called Fossil Freedom on the way. It took only that part, but it is the largest part of the oil use we have. I brought the investigation, and I've read it many times. Fossil freedom on the way, SOU 2013:84, is the flagship that the previous government left behind. You're supposed to be in charge of those of you who decided to conduct the investigation at the time. You might think that four years is a long time for a government holding and for making decisions in the Riksdag. Those of us who have been around a little longer may not think that four years is a long time. We think it's a short time. To be as effective as possible, the Cooperation Government has looked into the investigation that the Alliance Government left behind but made no proposals of. We have seen what might be interesting to do with this. Then we have systematically tightened up the urban environment agreements, which should be the first. It has been said that it is reasonable for the municipalities that go ahead and want to reduce the climate impact and dependence on oil in their city by implementing public transport investments to receive state support if it is justified and if you have good plans. As far as I know, this has led to the success of climate municipalities and many other municipalities that have good plans for their inhabitants. Bonus – Malus systems are included in the investigation, and the government has now made proposals for this. It would be interesting if those who come after me in the debate here could comment on whether they support the proposal put forward in the FFF investigation. Even in the case of fuel replacement and reduction obligations where fossil fuels and renewable quotas are quotad, the government has based on proposals and modified and looked at them so that it does not run into patrols during the EU review of what is being carried out. It can be said that this is a paradigm shift in Swedish climate policy. It is not primarily based on a change of vehicle, but on a change of fuel in the petrol and diesel pumps that already exist. The main reasons for the exchange are two. One is that we have a short time to meet the goals of becoming fossil independent and reducing climate impact by 70 per cent by 2030. Then we cannot assume that the whole vehicle fleet, whether passenger cars or lorries, will be replaced. Instead, the main strategy must be to change fuel in existing pumps. So this is the time aspect. The second reason is that we want a climate policy in which everyone should be involved. It should not only be those who can take part in an environmental car premium for 100 000 SEK to buy a completely new electric car that will be covered by the climate work, but everyone should have the opportunity to change their everyday lives for a reduced oil dependence. The study has several suggestions on how to supplement economic instruments. It proposes mileage tax for truck transport. We debated this in connection with the previous report. The investigation, with a completely convincing evidence, means that one can certainly stand and talk about having more energy efficient goods handling with more goods on rail and track. But as long as road transport is not allowed to have distance-based taxation, only shipping and railways pay fairway charges and rail charges is wishful thinking and nothing is concrete. On the contrary, it is reasonable for Sweden to adhere to what Switzerland introduced in 2001 and which Germany, the Czech Republic, Austria and many other countries have introduced or will introduce, i.e. a distance-based tax for those who work on the road. They're gonna pay for it. We have ticked off several of the investigative proposals that you left behind but did nothing of yourself. It is good if we can agree on at least some of them. The question here is, is there a way back? Can one suddenly say that we ignore this and let oil be the energy source on which we base the whole of Sweden's transport system? No, you can't. It's totally irresponsible. Recently, the political debate has focused on crisis, war and vulnerability and what happens to Sweden in the event of a possible blockade or war. Unfortunately, then, it is quite true that Sweden would be doing very badly if oil imports were suspended. 78% of oil imports go to the transport sector, and we are far too dependent on imported energy. In particular, given that 60% of oil comes from Russia, it is very important that we seriously consider all concrete proposals without ideological blind spots. How can we do more to have a transport system that is not dependent on imported energy to this extent? How do you do that? I don't like putting labels on what others do, but there are really quite two different strategies. Either you can look in the rear-view mirror when you drive and think about what it looked like earlier, and you try to navigate after this. You might be able to do that, because that's how I perceive it when you don't want wear and tear tax or one or the other. You want what you had before. Yes, how did we have it before, and how are we doing now? It is a total dependence on oil. I do not wish to say that we in the Cooperation Government have clever proposals in all areas, but at least we dare to look forward. That's the other way. We think it is better to look forward, see what other countries are doing and see opportunities. We must see that green community building covers not only the transport sector but also the housing sector, heating, electricity – everything! There are possibilities. Climate work is not just horsehair and denial, it is affirming the future and giving hope. Despite all the misery that exists, this is a huge opportunity to lift Sweden and become one of the first fossil-free welfare countries in the world. That was our promise in Paris, and now it is time to stand up to make this promise a reality. We can see at different fairs where different companies come. We do not hear them coming there and saying: Here we have the latest oil boiler! Is this what they show? Instead, all companies compete to be the best in renewable energy and energy saving efforts. It is about how to arrange passive houses and how to operate the buses in the future. We will find solutions that suit us. But it is also, of course, about having the potential to fit in other countries. It is about gas buses and methane trucks, and there are plenty of other possibilities. It is this opportunity – climate change as an opportunity for green society building with new businesses and new jobs – that we in the cooperation government want to lay the foundations for. That is why we want instruments that effectively speed up the phasing out of oil that has an unacceptable climate impact, but also unacceptable dependence and vulnerability for Sweden. We want to move on to a circular management of resources based on renewable raw materials and an energy-efficient business that allows the municipalities and cities that want to secure the future for their inhabitants to do so. There are many concrete headings in the report, and I have no ambition whatsoever to go through them all. But I would like to highlight an area where the government has not yet delivered but where I hope it can deliver in the near future. It's about environmental zones. The committee went to the Netherlands to see how it has done there. It has naturally had reason to confront the climate issue earlier than others, because the country is physically dependent on being able to keep the water and the floods away. They've been practicing it for decades. It has been concluded that environmental zone regulations are likely to be the most effective means of transforming the fleet of vehicles into the future and eliminating climate-damaging energy. We in the Transport Committee say that we support what, for example, Sweden's climate municipalities, the City of Gothenburg and several others have said in their referrals: We want environmental zone regulations that focus entirely on emissions. Local residents should be able to live in safety with the fact that they do not have harmful substances in the exhaust gases contained in the vehicles, and the rules should be based on it. We do not want to capture all other aspects, like noise or other, but we want a technology-neutral solution. We believe it will be the most effective for everyone. This is also the reasoning in Rotterdam, which has gone from being a large industrial city with many problems to now also having ambitions to participate in the challenge of the future and to change. That is what I feel is inspiring when you meet representatives from cities in other countries: here we are on the right track in the cooperation government when we are planning for the future – not by looking in the rearview mirror but by daring to see something that is in harmony with others.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-482	Mr President, I would like to Decisiveness, responsibility, and courage! Political determination, responsibility and courage are needed to cope with the tough condition of reducing emissions from the transport sector by at least 70% by 2030. We are six parties in the Swedish parliament that have jointly supported the promise, and the question is of course a high priority for the government. Together with 194 other countries in the world, Sweden has signed the Paris Agreement to tackle climate change. Reducing fossil fuel emissions plays a crucial role in this work. One third of Sweden's total greenhouse gas emissions come from the transport sector, most of which are road traffic. We can't go on like this. Emissions shall be reduced, fossil dependence shall be broken and the conversion shall be accelerated. We are facing perhaps the biggest upheaval in the transport system since the car entered the 1950s. That is why political determination, responsibility and courage are needed. We Social Democrats do not fear the task. We are determined to take the climate battle, and we are working tirelessly on our offensive climate policy, which is one of the most important pillars of our common society. Sweden will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. We're going to take the lead in the climate transition. Not only is it morally right, but it is also economically smart. Many new green jobs are already being created, and even more are to be expected. Mr President, I would like to The government has definitely not crossed its arms during the more than two years of government. On the contrary! Much has happened, and many climate-smart decisions have been made. We've created the Climate Tree. More than SEK 3 billion is available for companies, limited companies, organisations, municipalities and regions to be used for local climate investments to reduce emissions. Conditions vary in different parts of the country. The investment needs in Kalmar may not be at all the same as in Kalix. It is therefore important to allow local needs to characterise the choice of climate investment. Today, Sweden has over 3,200 charging points in place, and more are in the pipeline. The pressure is so great, Mr President, that the government in the spring amending budget is proposing an additional 500 million for this very purpose. The government has also drawn up an urban environment agreement, where the state enters into and co-finances local public transport projects in our city centres. These are projects that provide traction support for more housing construction. There has been great interest, and now there is also the opportunity to apply for resources for bicycle investments. We have significantly increased the funding for railway maintenance, and we have increased the energy tax on petrol and diesel. We have introduced electricity bus premiums, and we have allocated more resources to public transport in rural areas. Furthermore, Mr President, we have decided on tonnage tax to create competitive advantages for Swedish shipping, and we have developed a flight strategy for the role of aviation in the transport system of the future. The Government has launched five collaboration programmes together with industry and academia. One of them is about finding new innovative solutions for next generation travel and transport. These are solutions that contribute to sustainable development and create jobs. The demonstration projects on electric roads are one such example. All of this, and more, has been accomplished by the government in just over two years. It shows that a great deal can be achieved in a short time if there is political determination, responsibility and courage. And best of all, it's a result. Only the billions of dollars of government spending in the Climate Region are expected to reduce greenhouse gases by 1.4 million tonnes of carbon dioxide each year. Now, Mr President, we are shifting the work further by proposing a bonus – the Malus system. We need more environmentally friendly vehicles with lower CO2 emissions. Lower emissions should be taxed lower while higher-emission cars should be taxed higher. That's exactly what bonus – malus aims at. As if it were not enough, the government has recently decided on a so-called reduction obligation that imposes an obligation on fuel distributors to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by including quality-assured biofuels in the petrol and diesel they sell. The reduction obligation means that the government delivers what it has promised, i.e. long-term and stable conditions for biofuels. Best of all, the proposal will at least not be stopped by the EU because the reduction obligation is not subject to EU state aid rules. Mr President, I would like to What I have been trying to describe for quite some time now is the government's priority work on concrete decisions in order to reach the 70% reduction target for emissions in the transport sector where a fossil-free vehicle fleet plays a crucial role. How do the alliance parties react to this? Well, look and behold, with a reservation. They reserve their reservations on the grounds that the government should prioritise work on a fossil-free vehicle fleet. That's exactly what the government does, and that's what I've told you. I would like to turn the question around. What is the plan of the alliance parties to achieve our common goal of a 70% reduction in emissions? Is there a plan? You say 'no' to climate change, 'no' to the urban environment agreement, 'no' to public transport in rural areas, 'no' to increased energy taxes on petrol and diesel and 'no' to an aviation strategy. What exactly do you say yes to? What started so strongly with an investigation in 2012 about a fossil-free vehicle fleet, now seems to have almost landed in a confused political limbo mode. Where did the Alliance's climate ambitions go after the final report of the FFF investigation, which Karin Svensson Smith so creditably presented? Urban environmental agreements, rural collective investment and increased energy taxes on diesel were some of the proposals put forward by that study – the same proposal that you are now saying flatly no to. It is not good enough to hide behind the opposition role and stick your head in the sand when necessary climate action is waiting for decisions. Political determination, responsibility and courage are also required from an opposition. Together we have signed an agreement, and then, in reasonable terms, we should also be able to agree together on the necessary and long-term measures. Do not allow this important agreement to become just a lip service without responsibility for the future. Mr President, I would like to Over the last ten years, a lot of positive things have happened. The energy efficiency of passenger cars has improved, CO2 emissions from new cars have decreased and biofuels in the road transport sector have increased. Good! But that's not enough. We need an even more transport-efficient society and probably more economic instruments to achieve this. We simply have to manage to do more things at the same time, but it is not quite that simple. This is shown not least by the Swedish Transport Administration's report on the instruments and measures needed to reduce the emissions of the transport sector. Four different scenarios have been presented. The first scenario, Mr President, describes a 60% reduction in emissions. To get there, energy efficiency, electrification and biofuels are far enough. The second scenario describes an emission reduction of 80%. There, the need for biofuels is assumed to be greater than we can produce ourselves. This means that net imports of biofuels will be required, which risks leading to higher prices. No substantial changes to the infrastructure appear to be required in that scenario. The third scenario describes an 80% reduction in the use of less biofuels. Instead, settlements are directed towards larger city centres, while major efforts are being made to increase public transport, walking and cycling. These are investments supported by urban development agreements. This scenario also includes increased infrastructure investments in mainly rail, but also a shift from car to public transport and bicycle, and from truck to mainly rail but also shipping. In the fourth and last scenario, with reduced emissions of 80 per cent, traffic by car and truck are allowed to decrease compared to the baseline forecast by using powerful instruments to be added to the increased energy prices. The Finnish Transport Agency notes that all the scenarios are possible but that they lead to advantages and disadvantages of different kinds. Mr President, I would like to This clearly demonstrates the complexity of the issue. However, one conclusion to be drawn is that energy efficiency, electrification and biofuels alone are not enough. More needs to be done to reduce emissions. Climate change, urban environment agreements, strongly increased investment in railway maintenance, introduction of bonuses– malus and reduction obligations are just some of the climate initiatives the government has decided on to reach the target of at least 70% less emissions in the transport sector by 2030 – a goal that we, together with the alliance parties, have signed. To achieve this, it will continue to require determination, responsibility and courage, not only from us decision-makers but also from other important actors in society. We are determined, we take responsibility, we do not fear the task! We are working tirelessly on our offensive climate policy, which is one of the most important pillars of our common fossil-free building. Sweden, Mr President, will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. Together we can do it!
i-94083c28b6fa802a-510	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support all the reservations in which the Moderates share, but for time winning, I only ask for the approval of reservations 4 and 8. Mr President, I would like to The 2015 climate agreement meant that for the first time the world's countries could agree on a global, binding agreement to limit climate change and work to prevent the earth's average temperature rising by two degrees. The threat to our climate is one of the major political issues of our time, and its cross-border nature means that the issue must be resolved globally. Global problems require global solutions. However, as part of reducing our emissions, we need to switch our transport system to sustainability and fossil independence. I believe that most people in this House can endorse this, Mr President. What we do not agree on, however, is the means to get there. There are very high notes from the red-greens in this debate. But basically, it is punitive taxes and bans that are being promoted as the road to a sustainable transport system. I do not think that is the way forward, Mr President. It is important that we reduce our emissions, but it is equally important how we do this. Possibly, red-green policy can lead to some reductions in emissions. But if so, it is at the expense of jobs and growth throughout the country. In total, we are talking about tax increases for jobs and companies of 60 billion. Who will want to follow Sweden's climate policy – if you now want Sweden to be a green pioneer – if the Swedish model means that you have to choose between jobs and growth or the environment? No, Mr President, I do not think we have to choose. Instead, we will use efficiency, technological development and smart instruments. Sweden will then be able to reduce both emissions and unemployment. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates want to safeguard the transport system as a guarantee of people's mobility. The fact that people have the opportunity to travel both within our country and to other countries is basically a sign of prosperity. Competitive transport is also a necessity if a small remote country, far up in northern Europe, is to stand up to fierce global competition. Politics is about keeping several thoughts in your head at the same time. In this case, it is about safeguarding competitive transport as a basis for jobs and growth, while at the same time reducing emissions. We should have an ambitious and effective climate policy, but it should not serve as an excuse for introducing inefficient and poor left-wing policies. Unfortunately, that is what the government does when it lets billions roll in its investments in climate change and high-speed trains, which are condemned by the accumulated expertise because they have negligible climate effects, or when it is used as a pretext for introducing a flight tax or a kilometre tax, which strikes directly at jobs and growth. But, Mr President, people and businesses will continue to use and need our transport system. Then it is important that we develop it in a sustainable direction. At the same time, as I said, we are convinced that increased mobility can be reconciled with reduced emissions. A very important part of Sweden's accessibility and competitiveness is aviation. While some parties in this House represent a policy of reduced travel and flying, we say that it is the fuel we are going to combat in terms of aviation. We live in a globalised world, where competition between countries is fierce. It is not, and should not be, the policy's objective to reduce travel or to ensure that routes move to other countries, which would be the effect of a national airline tax. We can see how other countries have acted, which first introduced a flight tax and then withdrawn it because it strikes at bnp and growth. It can be seen that the aviation tax, as a so-called climate policy instrument, exports carbon dioxide to other countries. What would be the effect in southern Sweden, for example? Well, you'd rather take the flight from Kastrup. Flying does not decrease, but it strikes at jobs and growth in Sweden and against accessibility in southern Sweden and in our country. What would be the effect on Arlanda versus Copenhagen? The direct lines out into the world are the same, but they go from Copenhagen instead. No, Mr President, air tax is the wrong way to go, but sustainability is the right way to go. That is why a majority in the Committee on Transport and Tourism today says that we want to use smart instruments to reset aircraft. We demand that the government examine ways of stimulating increased use of biofuels in aviation. In Norway, you look at the model of differentiated take-off and landing fees based on fuel. That is a wise way to go if you actually want to focus on fuel and emissions. Together with the global agreements on an aviation emissions system already concluded within ICAO, this means smart measures that can both ensure greater sustainability and lower emissions and maintain competitiveness. Perhaps it should also be pointed out that a majority in the Swedish parliament once again points out that the government lacks support for its air tax. One might think that this is something that the government should bear in mind when presenting its proposals in the future. But, Mr President, aviation is not the only thing that is crucial for Sweden's competitiveness. We are, in fact, the third largest country in the EU to the surface, although it is not always reflected in our self-image. We think we're small, but we're big on the surface. We're surrounded by water. Our shipping is extremely important for us to ensure good transport. In order to promote environmental work in shipping, the Moderates want to meet the need for environmentally friendly fuel in our ports. How can we ensure that more ships can be converted into LNG and can use the methanol? How can we ensure an adequate electricity connection in our ports? All of this we need a strategy for. We also need, Mr President, to promote greater environmental differentiation of our fairway charges. Sjövägen is often a sustainable transport option, but it can also be developed. Even there, emissions can be reduced. Good and environmentally friendly transport on our roads is also necessary for Sweden. If we are not to fight the car and the truck and see that our road transport is also needed, we should rather change what fuel they are on. It is therefore fantastic that we are now testing a system with electric roads outside Gävle, E16. We believe from the Moderates that it is positive that the technology of electric roads has developed so quickly in recent years that we now have demonstration projects. They will be tested for two years, outside Arlanda-Rosersberg and in Gävle. But what happens next, we wonder in the Alliance and the Moderates. Should we stand still after the two years and evaluate it for a number of years while the chance to reset the entire truck fleet passes us? We want to see a strategy here and now for how we can move forward and continue testing new technologies and prepare for the development of electric roads. I know the Green Party likes to fight anything that goes on rubber wheels. But if you can ensure that the rubber wheels actually mean electric drive and zero emissions, then we should be able to agree that this is a development we all want. Mr President, I would like to The government is pursuing motorists. We know that. I want to pursue a search for the emissions and fuel. For many people, the car is still the symbol of freedom – perhaps not all times in Stockholm, where I live, but for people in other parts of our country the car is sometimes the only option. Then we need to continue to develop a system of charging poles. We need to develop biofuels. The Moderates want to see a reduction obligation, in which we gradually involve a higher percentage of biofuels in our cars. It's smart politics, not fighting the car, but the fuel. In order to promote the development of a sustainable transport system, it is also important what tools our municipalities have to ensure that we can actually reward those who make an active choice to reduce their emissions. Car pools in our cities are a very good example of how we can maintain car flexibility and people's mobility but see more of car sharing and reduce car ownership. Today, an ordinary passenger car stands still about 97% of the time. Then we need to enable more municipalities to reserve land for car pools. Unfortunately, today we find that there is no legal definition of what a car pool is. This is why many of us who live in Sweden's cities or outside do not dare to trust that you can trade your own car for a car pool. Here it is important that the government now acts on the basis of the investigation that is actually on the government table in order to produce a legal definition and enable municipalities to make room for the new technology and the new imagery. Finally, I would like to refer back to the introduction of my speech. Climate policy should not be a competition for who can promise away most of the taxpayers' money. It should be a competition for who has the best and smartest measures to achieve maximum climate benefit while safeguarding growth and competitiveness. Unfortunately, this government has not realised this, but symbolism policies are being implemented in the area by area without impact at the expense of jobs and businesses. The government's climate and transport policy is poor and lacks very much support in this House. My ambition is to put an end to this by the Alliance seeking support for a common budget in the autumn. Sweden needs a policy and a government that puts results before symbolic politics.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-534	Mr President, I would like to I note that the announcement that you look at what you did in the past is the main feature of the Alliance's way of describing climate policy. Then let me turn to my analogy of driving: I don't think I'd be approved in a driving school – I've never tried – if I steered by just looking in the rearview mirror. Actually, I think I'd fail driving. Now, of course, I don't know, because I've never tried, but I think you have to look forward and to the sides to be able to navigate if you're going to control anything. That is what we are doing in the cooperation government. We use parts of what you produced in investigations, but we didn't do much of it. However, you started something that I really think you should have created for, namely the construction of Sweden. It was in 2014 in Almedalen that your former party leader Fredrik Reinfeldt took the initiative to connect the whole of Sweden with modern communications and stimulate residential and green community building through what is by far the most efficient electrical transport, that is, trains and tracks. You should not build railways that were built in the 19th and early 20th centuries, but you should do as you have done in Japan for over 40 years as well as in France, Spain and several countries, where you build railways in such a way that you can take shares from aviation. Then I wonder for what reason Jessica Rosencrantz does not agree with Johnny Magnusson and all the other representatives around the country, who belong to the same party as she herself but who sees that this would benefit their region and their ability to survive without oil.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-537	Mr President, I would like to Most of my colleagues around the country agree that what we first want is investment in the infrastructure we have. We do not trust that the trains will come and go on time on the railway that exists. Then there are slightly different views as to whether high-speed trains can help develop the transport system. In the elections, most people are clear that what is needed is investment in the rail system. In addition, we can note that for 230 billion of taxpayers' money – we can let it sink in: 230 billion SEK, which Karin Svensson Smith wants to use to build high-speed trains – we get very little climate benefit. That's what the research says. In addition to the fact that there is very low emission reduction per invested krona and in addition to the massive emissions that it means to build such a system of high-speed trains, we can also say that in that case we must opt out of something else. If we choose to build a system that basically only runs on long-distance traffic between Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö, we opt out of investments in regional rail traffic. It is in fact there, Mr President, that most trips are made. We want to reward regional labour spending. We want funds to invest in that railway. Therefore, it is important to actually opt out of investments of 230 billion that are deemed to be socially unprofitable and inefficient in favour of protecting the Swedish railway we have, ensuring adequate maintenance, expanding new capacity, expanding new tracks where needed. We're not going to spend everything on a project that costs more than it tastes.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-541	Mr President, I would like to The railway is like a human body: you need the spine, ribs and all parts of the system if you are to function well. The regional representatives Johnny Magnusson, Malin Wengholm, Christian Gustavsson, Mats Eriksson and Magnus Gunnarsson expressed themselves perfectly well as representatives of the Moderates when they wrote in Dagens Samhälle: A historic investment investment that will provide more jobs and growth. Key elements of the package were the construction of new high-speed passenger rail links linking our three metropolitan and intermediate regions and the construction of 100,000 new homes. These are measures that build Sweden strong and modern. The construction of Sweden was met with very positive attention and response among both the general public and the business community. We, regional representatives of the Moderates in South Sweden, are now looking with concern at the fact that leading representatives of our party are expressing doubts about the construction of Sweden. ..................................................... We have seen doubts about the new in all parties. We don't know everything about the future. But we know it doesn't work with a transport system based on oil. It doesn't work that families who live outside cities have to have two cars in order to manage their transportation. People in general want to be able to have the train as an alternative. Then you need both high-speed rail and regional rail, and they need to be tied together throughout Sweden. I do not understand why Jessica Rosencrantz does not endorse what Fredrik Reinfeldt initiated.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-546	Mr President, I would like to When Sweden was launched it did not cost 230 billion. Nor had it been properly evaluated by the overall expertise. The combined expertise has investigated the issue and found that it costs more than it tastes. That is why we have chosen to be responsible. I can only say – and perhaps Karin Smith even agrees with me – that this government is not exactly clear about what the roll-out of high-speed trains should mean. There is no money to put into the national plan to come. You don't have an exact schedule. What they say is that they want to build Ostlänken and the route Lund – Hässleholm. We're in favour of those bets. We see that capacity is needed, for example in the form of the Ostlink. On the other hand, we do not see the point of building small cuts of high-speed technology, but of having a plan for the whole, which is what the government currently represents. I have heard Karin Svensson Smith himself say: If you build a system like this, you have to have a holistic approach. It does not have this government. Unlike this government, my party is honest enough to say: we cannot support a project like this when there is no funding and no timetable, and the collective expertise condemns it. I know that Anna Johansson said earlier, at the beginning of this debate, that this could perhaps be built with some form of alternative funding. There are still those who believe it. Karin Svensson Smith himself claimed that the Chinese could build it cheaply and well in just a few years. It is unlikely that there will be any of those methods, Mr President. The realistic thing is that it is the taxpayers who are responsible for the 230 billion. With a combined transport plan of 622 billion, it goes without saying that we will then have to opt out of a lot of other things. It is not a wise and responsible policy. Instead, it is just symbolic and placard politics. It doesn't stand for my side.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-550	Mr President, I would like to It's not often I look at the Moderate website, but I did it the other day to take part of the climate visions that I thought were there. I first searched for fossil freedom – zero hits. Then I searched for fossil independence – zero hits. I thought, "Have I spelled wrong?" I tried again – zero hits. I searched for alternative fuels – zero hits. I thought, maybe the search engine's wrong. I searched for treasures. That's when all of a sudden there was a rage. I can conclude that the climate vision shines quite well with its absence. I manage to catch public transport. It's kind of like a Twitter post. Public transport is good for the environment, and it facilitates the journey to work and school – as it says on the Moderate website. Jessica Rosencrantz's party, the Moderates, has signed the agreement to reduce emissions by 70% by 2030. Moderates often say that it's about doing the right things to achieve as much climate benefit as possible. Then I wonder, Jessica Rosencrantz : Are differentiated parking fees and car pools the right things to achieve as much climate benefit as possible? Or what other instruments are needed to achieve the 70% reduction target in the transport sector?
i-94083c28b6fa802a-553	Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats would like to talk about Sweden being a green forerunner. Let me just point out what I said in my speech: no one will want to follow after Sweden if Swedish climate policy means pure tax penalties that strike at jobs and growth. Then you have to choose a smarter path. On behalf of the Moderates, we have presented a great many suggestions. It is a question of giving tools to municipalities in the form of differentiated parking fees – it is absurd, moreover, that it is not possible to do so today. But it is also a question of requirements for the incorporation of biofuels into our vehicles – a reduction obligation. It is about a system of bonuses – malus, which this government is happy to talk about but which was initiated by our government. I would point out that this government chooses to overfinance the system of SEK 600 million and use it as another way of drawing new tax money from our citizens. But basically we are in favour of a bonus – Malus system. I was talking about electric roads. Pia Nilsson is happy to beat his chest when it comes to railway maintenance. That's where we'll bet as much as you. In addition, we can afford to invest in our roads. There's a lot we can do. But politics is once again about being able to do several things at once. A penalty tax on air travel and a penalty tax on all our truck transports is not a smart climate policy if you are not of the opinion that travel and transport in itself is a bad thing – then you want to reduce them. But if you actually think that most people think it's nice and good to be able to travel and if you realize that most companies need to export their goods for Sweden AB to work, you don't want to fight the transports. Then we want to combat emissions. That is what moderate politics stands for.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-556	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates say no to virtually all economic instruments except bonuses – malus, as we heard from Jessica Rosencrantz just now. They say no to Climate Change, the very successful local climate investment creation that we have actually made possible. Nearly 800 applications have so far been received by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. All the projects that have been granted this provide emission reductions equivalent to 140 000 cars each year. The Moderates say no to that. Instead, they want differentiated parking fees. And you are very keen to get a legal definition of the concept of car pool. I may also think that we need to clarify that. But that's not enough. It's not enough to say you have to find smarter ways. You can't just focus on the way, Jessica Rosencrantz. Where is public transport in Moderate climate vision? Nowhere. You're missing a climate vision. You have no economic instruments. That's a lot of empty rhetoric.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-558	Mr President, I would like to The climate is an interesting phenomenon. That is SEK 3 000 of taxpayers' money per tonne of emissions reduction. It's a pretty expensive climate measure. In addition, the money – it is based on previous climate programmes – goes towards measures that would have been implemented to a rather large extent anyway, without the additional contributions. The Moderates choose another path. We invest SEK 100 million more than the government in international climate action, which is 50 times more effective and costs SEK 60 per tonne of emission reduction. So the stakes are seven times as effective. Seven times as much climate benefit we get, even if the government spends seven times more of taxpayers' money. Well, Mr President, it matters what you choose to spend your money on. You can call it what you want – climate action and high-speed trains. It sounds very nice, but it's symbolic politics. It is not about who can promise away most of the taxpayers' money. And it is not about, I mean, fighting transport – here is a fundamental dividing line between us. Basically, it is a sign of increased prosperity that people and businesses can travel and export their goods. But we are going to reset the transport system by bonuses – malus, by reduction obligation, by electric roads and by differentiation of take-off and landing charges for flights, by fairway fees and by parking fees. You want to fight the transports themselves. There's no agreement, Pia Nilsson. We never will be. But I can promise you that there is much on the part of the Moderates in the field of transport, although we probably won't agree on the road.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-563	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 11 and, otherwise, for the committee's proposal. We now have to deal with fossil independence. I have lost count of how many times the climate has been expressed, but the issue comes up in all contexts. Then you are very careful to convince each other, I suppose, about who is most for a fossil independent. However, I can only imagine, Mr President, that every party wants to make itself independent of oil imports. I can't imagine any human being at all who's not for the same thing. We should not really sit and try to convince each other and argue so terribly about that. As has been said here before: now are the methods we are discussing. I myself, for example, am very interested in hydrogen drive and its production and development, as well as the world-leading industries that develop vehicles for the purpose. I try to keep in touch with those who know the issue best internationally and hope that here we have a good solution for the future – one of them. I'm sure there's more. Let me touch a little on paragraph 2, which deals with aviation. Once again, we are making an announcement to the government. I read out parts of it briefly: Against this background, the committee proposes that the Riksdag announce to the Government that it should promote the use of biofuels in aviation through appropriate instruments and measures such as: to examine the possibility of differentiating take-off and landing charges based on fuel. ..................................................... That is an excellent proposal, I think. The airline tax bill is the elephant in the room. On the government side, we are not happy to touch on the subject at all. I don't think you like it very much at heart, but you have to make your government partner happy. D is why we sit with this threat upon us. Furthermore, in addition to all the problems already described above, the airline tax is a blow to our regional airports. It surprises me a little that a prime minister who travels around the northern areas and tries to convince him of his kindness to the sparsely populated areas, which he claims to care for, makes a proposal like this. That's bullshit! It's a big threat to them. In small terms, it can be recalled that when we discussed the role of aviation in the past, we had an issue about Vilhelmina airport. They asked the Riksdag for a small amount of support for the development of a runway. To my surprise, the Swedish Democrats were the only ones who wanted to support this request. I'm sorry about that. There is much to be said for, as Jessica Rosencrantz said, and I agree that the solution to many of the problems we are talking about is technological development. It must not be the case that climate talk is a pretext for a tax increase policy, which unfortunately seems to me to be more and more likely. I'll talk a little bit about aviation and its potential for improvement. In 1983 Saab 340, an aircraft for shorter distances, was launched. It had an average consumption of 4.39 litres per 100 kilometres per pax, i.e. per passenger. 15 years later ATR launched a model that I myself fly with a couple of times a week, a model in the same tough period with a consumption of 2.47 liters, i.e. almost a halving. Air travel is really doing what they can to improve this – yet another sign that it is the technological development we are going to review first and foremost if we really want to do something about the climate or oil imports. I feel a little sorry for the one who suffers from Pia Nilsson's courage in terms of what is now to be dealt with, i.e. bonuses – malus, which we in the Swedish Democrats do not support. Poor man who can't afford to buy these new cars! There are many who do not, especially out in the sparsely populated areas. Go up and preach to them that we want to get rid of the flight and impose penalties on the older cars they have, which does not make it easier for them to switch to new ones! The solutions you always hear about include high-speed trains between Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. The representative of Sweden's negotiations stated very clearly that we will take out the aircraft. He also added that he personally hated flights. This is not a very factual debate. Now it turns out that this high-speed drive is probably a dream from some quarters, where it is thought to achieve completely different goals. At least it does not solve Sweden's transport problems. I am content with this, Mr President, and, as I said, I am in favour of the committee's proposal as far as paragraph 7 is concerned, where I am in favour of reservation 11.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-580	Mr President, I would like to The Transport Committee is discussing fossil-free transport. It is good that we do so and look across-the-board at the various modes of transport that the committee has to prepare for parliamentary decisions. We take up the environmental perspective and how we can change, and we talk about the fact that a very large proportion of the transport equipment we have in our country is dependent on fossil fuels and therefore climate-damaging fuels. The objective, which we also agree on politically in a very large majority in this House, is to reduce emissions from the transport sector by 70% by 2030. This is just over twelve years, and 70 per cent is related to the 2010 level. It is therefore a very high ambition on which there is political agreement, which is a good thing. What we are discussing is the methods, and in order to achieve this very ambitious objective, a number of powerful tools are needed. It is usually said that an elephant is eaten in pieces, and the Center Party believes that if the goal of a completely fossil-independent vehicle fleet in 2045 is to be possible to chew itself, we will already have an ambition of 30 percent renewable energy in the Swedish transport sector by 2020, that is, in just over two years. It is a high ambition, but it is possible to achieve if we do the right things and make them quick. Probably that's how we get to the end goal. The challenges in the transport sector are numerous and could be expressed in two broad sections. It is about reducing the emissions of vehicles already operating on rail, roads, aviation, shipping, etc., because they will continue to roll, float and fly for many years to come. This can then be done by giving them strong incentives to change fuel. The second challenge is that the new vehicles that arrive at a high rate are chosen correctly and are the most climate efficient alternatives available. Then probably, Mr President, instruments such as tax exemptions for biofuels, differentiated vehicle tax and the super-environmental car premium are things that have contributed to improvements. However, the pace of change is not high enough, and more of the options mentioned here in the debate need to be introduced. There is one thing that is very important to remember when we discuss transport and climate. It is that it is not the transport that we want to get to and stop, but that it is the emissions that come from a transport that must be stopped. Here I would like to reiterate what Jessica Rosencrantz said, that here there is an ideological dividing line between the left parties and the Alliance. Too often the left sections fall into attack on the transport itself instead of looking at what comes out of the exhaust pipe or what happens at the energy shore that drives the transport. A completely fossil-independent vehicle fleet is an ambitious but necessary objective. It also provides a great opportunity for our country and industry to take the lead in a global transition. Of course, it is not only Sweden that is changing, but there are international commitments from the end of the year that make the whole world look for opportunities and conditions for a transition. Especially those of us who sit on Parliament's Transport Committee know that Swedish environmental technology and vehicle technology are already and can continue to be an export success that prepares the way for environmentally friendly transport worldwide. It is about the technology in vehicles, the production of biofuels and raw materials from Swedish forest and field-based areas. It can also be about smarter and better logistics solutions, so that the five modes interact more effectively. Mobility and growth are consistent, also being climate-smart. This is the way to continued good economic growth, which in turn leads to prosperity. A threat, Mr President, to the development of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet is the ideas we have touched upon in the previous debate on a national and distance-based road wear charge or kilometre tax for heavy road transport with which the Government of Löfven/Lövin is still associated. In this House, there is a large and stable political majority to convert the Swedish vehicle fleet into something environmentally smart. A kilometre tax would, of course, be a very effective stop block for this common ambition. It honors Karin Svensson Smith that she stands up for the kilometre tax. I do not share her view, but at least she stands up for the view of the government. It would be beneficial if even the Social Democrats could whisper a little louder about what is happening with the re-evaluation of the kilometre tax that is currently going on in the Government Office. Of course, the conversion to a fossil-independent vehicle fleet covers all modes of transport and does not stop at the road vehicles themselves. The transition to a long-term sustainable transport system is one of the biggest challenges we face in the entire policy area that we in the Transport Committee have to deal with. The goal and direction of the Center Party in this work is for Sweden to continue to be a green, industrially well-developed country. Mr President, I would like to It is worth recalling that the Alliance Government took a number of urgent steps to break Sweden's dependence on fossil fuels in the transport sector and also to promote a fossil-independent vehicle fleet. During the time of the Center Party and the Alliance in government, the share of renewable fuels in the Swedish transport sector increased almost four times, and the target set to reach 10 percent renewable energy in the transport sector by 2020 was achieved by far and far, far earlier. Unfortunately, we can see that the pace of change has now stopped. In order for us to achieve the objective of the Environmental Objectives Committee, which consists of a large parliamentary majority in this House, that Sweden should be climate neutral by 2045, more efforts are needed. People and industry will be asking for travel and transport. The Center Party and the Alliance are convinced that increased mobility for people and goods is compatible with the high ambition of climate neutrality by 2045. Economic growth and climate concerns are consistent and are the right way to tackle the world's environmental and climate challenges. This is a great opportunity for us as an industrial and export nation. But then we must not discuss, deal with or risk putting forward proposals that will be halted, such as tax from a distance or a kilometre tax, because it poses a threat to the transition. It is a threat if we are to get what we are going to drive the vehicles with instead of Russian imported fossil oil if we could not even mention the forest in connection with a distance-based kilometre tax. Mr President, I would like to When we discuss fossil freedom and transport, there is reason to mention that this report also proposes that the government receive an announcement addressed to it. This time it is about how we develop the aviation that is so important for the country or aviation. Towards the line of comprehensive, efficient and environmentally friendly air traffic is reserved in this report by the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party. What is in substance reserved is to launch appropriate measures and instruments to promote the use of biofuels in aviation, including exploring the possibility of differentiating take-off and landing charges based on fuel. It also reserves the right to speed up the Single European Sky process, which would mean more straight and efficient routes, thereby reducing flight hours and reducing emissions. Furthermore, it reserves the right to introduce a global instrument for climate emissions from international aviation, already negotiated by the International Aviation Organisation (ICAO). While reservations are being made against this, it was announced only yesterday in the spring amendment proposal that it intends to return to Parliament with a flight tax. Overall, I would urge the government to reconsider – and I also assume that it does – its decision to introduce an environmentally very inefficient and, from the point of view of transport, purely harmful national aviation tax. Of course, the government must listen to the majority of this House before making proposals that lack support. Finally, Mr President, a word on maritime transport. 90%, nine out of ten tonnes, of the world's trade is via international maritime transport. Scandinavia and Sweden are surrounded by water. The shipping industry is therefore of vital importance to our prosperity and trade. Maritime transport also has the potential to be very environmentally friendly as a form of transport. The Center Party believes that Sweden, through a strong Swedish-flagged merchant fleet, which is also at the forefront of the work with lower sulphur emissions and reduced climate impact, can influence the design of the international regulations for shipping and its employees. Through much more active international cooperation than we are seeing today, Sweden could further strengthen the benefits of shipping. Active efforts to reduce emissions from shipping have been carried out in recent years, but more is needed. International impact, cooperation and strategies are prerequisites for coping with the transformation of this type of heavy transport. The use of energy in shipping needs to be made more efficient and the climate impact reduced. The next step is, of course, to work towards including shipping in the emissions trading scheme. According to my view and that of the Center Party on transport and emissions, it is always the one who emits something that should bear the cost of reducing or stimulating the removal of emissions. Of course, renewable fuels can also be applied in maritime transport. I am, of course, in favour of the claims of the Alliance and the Center Party linked to the report, but here and now I only support reservations 1 and 15.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-606	Mr President, I would like to The Centre Party has signed the agreement to reduce emissions in the transport sector by 70%. However, the Centre Party does not want an urban environment agreement, the Centre Party does not want to spend more money on public transport in rural areas, and the Centre Party does not want a climate impact, but rather wants to scrap it. If so, it is a pity for Kalmar. Kalmar has been quite successful in applying for these funds, Anders Åkesson. You actually beat us in Västmanland pretty bad. It turns out that there are about five major projects that have received nearly 15 million: it is Böta Kvarn, it is Kalmarhem and it is Orkla Foods. These companies, if I may say so, emit 20 000 tonnes of less carbon dioxide each year. This corresponds to the emissions of 5 700 cars. It must feel very nice to live in Kalmar with the reduced carbon dioxide emissions, Anders Åkesson. I want to know what's so wrong with climate change when it can generate less emissions.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-609	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Pia Nilsson! The fact that the Kalmar district beats Västmanland is a given in most things, and I am particularly pleased about the environment. Yes, the Center Party strongly questions the effect of the Climate Scene. I am absolutely convinced that some of the examples from the Kalmar district mentioned by Pia Nilsson would have existed even without the support that the Climate Count has provided. That's what I think, but what I'm saying is confirmed by the WSP report that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has ordered in this area. A great deal of what is happening in the context of Climate Change would have happened without it. The concern with the Climate Cave, P ia Nilsson, is that you spray it away like a hail heat, without much accuracy. Charging poles are a good feature, but the Center Party wants to see a more efficient and accurate use of the resources hidden in the Climate Scene. In fact, collective activity in rural areas stopped at money in exchange on the Southern Main Line and did not lead to better public transport in the Swedish countryside. The Finnish Transport Agency was allowed to use the money for complex change of gear, certainly in the way, but it had absolutely no impact on rural public transport. The urban environment agreements, in conclusion, are an extremely doubtful mix between municipal and state competence. I am absolutely convinced that the tram investment that we see in the city of Lund, for example, and which is largely financed by urban agreements, could have been possible anyway.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-613	Mr President, I would like to Anders Åkesson from the Center Party is doubtful about the effects of climate change. But can it really be when it turns out that nearly 800 applications have been received and that the projects that have been granted funds reduce emissions equivalent to 140 000 cars annually? In Kalmar alone there will be 5 700 cars – so much less emissions. I do not think there should be much doubt. It is not at all a hail cure, but it is very thorough and professional assessments that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency makes. It's not like everyone who applies gets money. However, the pressure has increased enormously now, so the government has proposed an extra 500 million in its spring amendment budget. This money will be needed. When it comes to extra money for public transport in rural areas, VTI has been commissioned to look at what to do. Of course, it's important that the money lands where it's supposed to. As far as charging poles are concerned, the Center has its own proposal. You don't think it's enough with the Climate Tree, or you don't want it because you want your own proposal. It says that you want there to be 30,000 charging poles by 2020, Anders Åkesson. Today there are 8 000, and you believe that by 2020 150 million more will give these 30 000 posts, each post being subsidised by 20 000 SEK. There were many figures, but this is what your budget motion says: 30,000 charging poles by 2020 for 150 million. How does that equation add up?
i-94083c28b6fa802a-618	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Pia Nilsson, who is very good at math! If we start with Climate Change, it is the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that handles it; that is quite correct. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency will see if it is an effective way to work and has asked the renowned audit firm WSP to clean out if it is good. I can read aloud from the WSP report, but that doesn't allow my time. A lot of what happens within the framework of Climate Kli know is good thing. We are in full agreement on this, but they were very likely to have been implemented in any case. Then the question is why you should splash on government money if they had got rid of it anyway. If we do not believe that – it certainly does – that we have an unlimited amount of government money, it is better to use it with greater accuracy, perhaps for objects Pia as biogas Nilsson or other things that have at least previously been weighing in their profitability, so that private investors dare to go in and invest. With regard to charging poles, the Center Party has a very ambitious development plan for them, precisely because we want to achieve the 30% target by 2020. We think electric cars are a good way to get there. The challenge for an electric car is the reach anxiety: Am I going where I am going – if I dare to drive to Västmanland, can I reach my electric car? There is probably a need for more charging poles and a tighter structure of these. Whether 20 000 SEK per subsidy is sufficient as an average cost to get to it remains to be seen. I do not have the answer to that, but I think that would be enough on the way. I think we have a common ambition but that we disagree a little about the methods.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-624	Mr President, I would like to I remember a time when the Center stood for the local community and a decentralised society. I must say that I find it very sympathetic. Then perhaps you should not have a government policy that tells you how each municipality should do. It is the very idea of both the urban environment agreements and the climate category: that the municipal politicians decide together with the citizens what they want to do in their municipality. If it is effective according to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's assessment, they can receive state co-financing. I do not understand why Anders Åkesson cannot endorse what I perceive as a good vision: that the municipality decides what it should do and that the state does not rule unnecessarily. I would like to recommend Anders Åkesson to contact his colleagues in Karlskrona and Lund and ask: Would the urban renewal that is now taking place with the help of the urban environment agreements have come about without that money? The answer is no. I happen to know Lund Municipality pretty well. Read the minutes of the council! There would have been nothing at all without the urban environment agreements. I have a question: Has Anders Åkesson read the Swedish Transport Administration's climate scenario with the four different variants that Pia Nilsson described earlier? It is clear from this that it is not enough to change fuel but that we must use less energy in the transport system. You can't do that if you don't. The oil's merit and the curse is that it's very energy-tight. If we are to get through the beef – what we have agreed between six parties: minus 70% by 2030 – we need to change modes of transport. I wonder: Have you taken note of the Swedish Transport Administration's climate scenario, Anders?
i-94083c28b6fa802a-629	Mr President, I would like to I thank Karin Svensson Smith for this and for the warm memory of the Center Party. I, for my part, remember the Green Party as a green market-liberal party in its time, which accepted real green tax exchange. Unfortunately, those days are over. Nowadays, the Green Party has fallen back to becoming a red tax-raiser party. But it's another story. It is true that we must use less energy. And the energy we use must be used much more effectively. That is why the steps towards 2045 and the total independence of fossil fuels must be taken in many different ways. I have probably read both the documentation that Karin Svensson Smith mentioned and other documents that the Swedish Transport Administration and other investigators have developed about the road to a green and renewable society. But I do not share the view that the Green Party and Karin Svensson Smith have to prevent transport. In the Center Party and my vision, we are still a mobile society. There people and goods are allowed to be transported and moved, but they do so in a more climate-smart and energy-efficient way. And the energy we provide is renewable and sustainable and does not cause harm. Preventing people from moving and preventing goods from being transported will make this transition infinitely more difficult.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-634	Mr President, I would like to I wonder if Anders Åkesson has read the investigation Fossil Freedom on the way. If the answer is yes, I would recommend that he read it again. It is clear from this that there should be a different distribution of transport between the types of energy. That is why Anna-Anna-Karin Hatt very proudly presented the investigation – I was there when she did – and told us that we need to investigate mileage taxes on truck transport in order for the railways and shipping to come to their own. I definitely share Anna-Karin Hatt's view in this regard. A fundamental principle is that all modes of transport should have a fair and equal opportunity for their potential to be exploited. The railway has a distance-based charging system – track charges. Maybe they think I'm a little high. Is Anders Åkesson prepared to remove this system? I don't really understand the logic. If you cannot have distance-based charges on the road, why should you have them on rail? Is the Center against freight by rail? Despite the efforts of the cooperation government, we are now, unfortunately, seeing that the additional goods are on the way, while the railways are having difficulty competing. I do not think that people in rural areas appreciate the absence of rail freight. We need to have fees that lead to the goals we have set ourselves. This is clearly stated on p. 368 Section 7.6.3 of the FFF study on why distance-based charges should be on the way to meeting climate targets.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-637	Mr President, I would like to I thank Karin Svensson Smith for the reading advice. I've been reading and following the FFF investigation since its inception. Unlike Karin Svensson Smiths's government colleagues, I also accepted the content of the investigation to a large extent during the time it was produced during various partial seminars and after it was presented. This is not the case with the road wear charge that Karin Svensson Smith strongly affirms but that her comrades and the foundation of the cooperation government would rather not talk about at all. Unlike Karin Svensson Smith, I am not content to read the investigation. I also visit reality as it looks. Last Wednesday, last week, I was in Värmlandsbro. There is a company that produces 90 000 square metres of heated area per year, especially for final delivery to Mälardalen. I asked why the railway is not used more in its logistics system to deliver modules in particular to Mälardalen. The railway passes the industrial plant across the industry with knitting tracks and everything. A number of problems were then described, but I will not repeat them here. But for this company, a combination of road and rail seemed reasonable. We know that Lindbäck's construction, which produces a lot and modern up in Piteå, is now looking at maritime transport in order to supply Mälardalen with housing to the same extent. I think that is how it must be done, Karin Svensson Smith, namely that one cannot be religious in one's view of whether the wheels are running on rails or on rubber, but in all respects should strive for the greatest possible energy efficiency, the least possible climate impact and effective transitions between the different modes of transport. In this way, I believe that we face the future in the best way possible.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-640	Mr President, I would like to What is now happening to the climate is frightening. We see many early signs that reinforcement mechanisms that are very frightening are being set in motion more and more. So far, they're not unmanageable, but we're seeing more and more of them. We see how the oceans are heated, and the oceans have the ability to become a carbon sink instead of buffering, as they are today, for carbon dioxide if the oceans become warm enough. The same applies to more forest fires. Today, the forest buffers by binding carbon. Even the ice melts, and we see other such signs. This is very nasty. We also see strong weather events in Europe, among others. There is now a major famine in Africa. Food production is affected. We also see in Sweden that the water supply will now be drastically reduced in a way that we have not previously seen in Sweden. This brings the climate issue even more up to date. It is very gratifying that everyone is talking about the climate issue and that all parties are taking hold of it today. It feels good that a lot is happening around the world, and many countries are changing. But it's urgent. It is like a race between climate change on the one hand and climate change work, the emission scenario and the shift to renewable technologies and sustainable social planning that we have launched on the other. That's why the Left Party wants to set a tougher target than the Environmental Target Committee did. The environmental target committee set a target for a reduction of 70 per cent in road traffic by 2030. The Left Party wants to raise this target because of this acute situation. We want an 80% reduction, just as the study on fossil-free vehicle traffic pointed out that we need to have. That is why I support our reservation 2. It is now possible to convert cars into biogas. The Left would like to see it examined how we could develop state aid for conversion to biogas. This is a good step in moving towards a circular economy and circulating resources. It is also a good way of using a fuel that we are not using enough today. We in the Left Party also believe that the urban environment agreement is a very good way of co-financing measures, both for sustainable urban environments and for the social planning that we have heard earlier in this debate is so important because only new technologies will not be enough to achieve climate targets on time. However, we would like to see the urban environment agreement include urban freight transport and the possibility of coordinating the transport of goods in cities, as this is a major problem today and causes a lot of emissions. The Left Party has another proposal to work as it does in the cities where it has managed to increase public transport very strongly, including Freiburg. There, several measures are being taken at the same time in order to have a leverage effect on a significant increase in public transport travel. We're not reaching the doubling target at this rate. I myself have been on the public transport committee in Uppsala, for example, and there we are talking about a few percent increase with the measures we put forward. We want to achieve a 50% increase, and we want to achieve it throughout Sweden. That is why we would have to resort to more effective ways of working. Researchers with whom I have spoken point to – and so do what we can see in Freiburg – that it is when you do three things while achieving a real leverage effect. It is about combining a price reduction in public transport with community planning, increasing accessibility to public transport and reducing accessibility for cars. In doing this at the same time, public transport is greatly increased. In the 1980s we had 25 per cent more passengers in public transport in Uppsala municipality, but during the 1990s crisis public transport was saved. The price was raised and the trips pulled in, which reduced travel so much that we had 25% more travellers before these measures. It is the opposite model to the Freiburg model, so to speak: it increases the price and reduces access to public transport. In order to achieve the objectives and be as brave as we have talked about earlier in the debate, we would also have to work on the price picture. It is some kind of cowardice that has occurred since the 1990s that makes no one even dare talk about price when it comes to public transport. It's a little strange, because in all other areas everyone admits that the price is also important for a customer to choose a product – but in public transport it is suddenly absolutely not important. When talking to politicians, officials and unfortunately many researchers, the prize is not important. However, when you talk to travellers, for example, you hear that public transport prices are too high and that people do not travel collectively. I have also heard a manager from Volvo acknowledge this in a recent debate. That goes without saying. Often prices are compared to purchasing a car, but usually the family may already have a car. It's about choosing public transport daily and using the car a little less – or co-owned cars, which is even better. You should use the car when it is needed, i.e. when to travel longer distances. I therefore think that we must dare to talk price in public transport again. It's important. We cannot be stuck in this that we have had too little tax revenue because we wanted to reduce taxes, but we must think about the environment and the climate and dare to spend the money on what saves the planet. What is exciting in Freiburg is also that it has managed to lower the price and at the same time get increased revenue. Less tax resources are used than before to subsidise public transport. This is because there are so many more people travelling by public transport. There are breakpoints you can count on, where you lower the tariffs a little and meet up with an increase in travel and then even end up on the plus side, which was thus done in Freiburg. The Left Party puts forward as an idea that it could work with this model in the urban environment agreement, i.e. that the municipalities spend money on tariff reductions and then combine these measures and work tight with them from all sides. You should therefore not put a little on the edges with some of the measures but take a long time and work with both accessibility to public transport and smaller car traffic in the city center in urban planning as well as the tariffs. This is an important model I hope will be taken advantage of. Many municipalities make study visits to Freiburg, and you look at different parts. It is not certain that this particular model is perceived, but it is effective. I have talked to researchers who point out that this is exactly how you should work if you are to achieve a substantial increase in public transport.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-657	Mr President, I would like to For time winning, I only agree to reservation 14, but the Liberals obviously support all the reservations that we have. Mr President, I would like to The report we are debating today is not comprehensive for the transport sector, and this shows the debate. There are many different proposals in many different parties' motions and in many different committees. That should be included in the back of the head when we are debating the issues today, because a lot of issues are missing too. The transport sector versus greenhouse gas emissions and energy use have very different dimensions. With regard to a fossil-independent transport sector, it would be a little logical today not least to discuss those who go cycling and really contribute to a better climate. However, as I said, these proposals come back in various reports, both in this committee and in other committees, and it is important to have them with us. We in committee agree that it is important to take action, but we do not always agree on what measures are important and what we need to do more. In this report we disagree on some measures and areas. It is about aviation, electric roads, car pools and parking, and there we think differently. Some want to move forward faster, as we do in our reservations, while others want to take more time. What is important, however, is that everyone sees the need for action. Mr President, I would like to The Liberals' proposals in this area, in terms of taking action, are contained in a number of different motions both in the Committee on Transport and in other committees. We believe that the transition to a sustainable transport system is one of the biggest challenges facing transport policy. As many have mentioned here earlier today, the transport sector accounts for about one third of Sweden's total greenhouse gas emissions. Sweden can become a pioneer country. A number of measures were already taken in 2006 – 2014, which has also been touched upon in the debate. However, there are areas where the Liberals do not share the government's view of politics. The benefits of urban development agreements are one such area. We in the Liberals have other solutions for this, and we have described them not least in the motion we made in connection with the infrastructure bill that was discussed in December. There you can also take part of the whole and how you can discuss different types of measures. The climate and environmental challenges our society faces, we in the Liberals want to meet with a number of different measures based on knowledge, best available technologies and what is economically efficient. This must also be included in the planning. People will continue to ask for travel, and it is therefore important that the transport system develops in a sustainable way. Increased mobility is compatible with reduced emissions. The climate impact of transport can be reduced by exploiting the potential of new technologies, by increasing the share of renewable fuels and by providing high climate performance for both vehicles and fuels, and by making transport more efficient. In this way, our actions deliver the greatest possible results for the environment. Growth is important. It is a prerequisite for us to address the world's environmental and climate challenges. Sweden also needs growth. The climate threat is best met through effective and technology-neutral instruments that contribute to technology development and changed behaviour as well as increased use of more sustainable solutions through a good business climate. We believe in research and effective instruments. New opportunities are being opened up through new fuels, infrastructure and electrification that can strengthen our competitiveness and open up new export opportunities. We in the Liberals believe in growth – sustainable growth – throughout the country. Mr President, I would like to As far as aviation is concerned, we are a little puzzled by the way the government parties in the committee think. Is aviation biofuels important for government parties? The Social Democrats and the Green Party, with the support of the Left Party, have reserved themselves and believe that the use of biofuels for aviation is of great importance, but in view of the ongoing work to develop, among other things, a strategic plan to convert the transport sector to fossil freedom, the majority's proposals are rejected. Sweden's geographical conditions mean that aviation plays an important role in the overall transport system. Air travel is important for connecting Sweden. Air travel creates mobility into the world. Since Sweden is a surface large country with a relatively small population – 23 inhabitants per square kilometre – aviation is in some places the only realistic transport option. The proper functioning of air transport is therefore essential for growth but also a prerequisite for regional development. But there is a need for sustainable aviation development, with reduced environmental impact. The importance of research and the development of biofuels for the aviation industry is incredible. In spring 2016, the Swedish Parliament issued an announcement to the Government that it should work towards increased use of biofuels in aviation. There are more measures that can be taken and instruments that can be used. We have heard earlier today that instruments can be useful. For example, we believe that consideration should be given to differentiated take-off and landing charges, as well as to the creation of green approach corridors and energy efficient aircraft. The green transition of the aircraft needs to continue, without damaging jobs or growth. However, a national aviation tax is neither a good environmental measure nor a measure of sustainable growth. Mr President, I would like to The car plays a role. In a sparsely populated country like Sweden – with, as I said, 23 inhabitants per square kilometre – trains will not be able to solve the entire transport needs. Nor will aviation be able to do this. Electric cars, self-driving cars, car pools, call-controlled transport by car – progress is very fast. In the future, many will be able to opt out of their own car, even if you need a car from time to time, if we in Parliament create the conditions for you not to own a car yourself. However, the car also creates challenges, such as lack of space in dense cities, parking lots and the space for pedestrians and cyclists. Solutions must therefore be designed according to the conditions. Parliament can create conditions for the development of solutions and new technologies. But here the committee disagrees about what can be done, how it can be done and how quickly it can be done. Mr President, I would like to Electric roads have already been mentioned, and I would like to draw attention to a reservation which is specifically about electric roads. It is amazing that the world's first electric road was inaugurated in Sweden in 2016 and that trials are ongoing with another one. This also shows how fast technology is progressing and the opportunities for sustainable transport to be created here too. In addition to the technology tested in Sandviken, preparations are underway for more experimental projects in Sweden. Another test facility is being built. This shows that this type of technological innovation can develop, and thus also safeguard, all modes of transport. This will also allow us to achieve a more sustainable society. As for reservation 14, which deals with car pools and parking, I am a little perplexed by how the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party have reasoned. We all know that there is no legal definition of the concept of car pool. The consequence is that municipalities cannot create parking spaces for car pool cars, as they cannot assign seats to independent companies. It is interesting that a public investigation pointed this out. A legal definition of the concept of car pool is needed as soon as possible, in order to make car pools more accessible. The development of more car pools means that you can refrain from owning your own car. When the Climate Authorities visited the Transport Committee, they also pointed out the importance of a legal definition of the concept of car pool, in particular in order to enable municipalities to reserve special parking spaces for car pool cars. The environmental target committee proposed that the Transport Regulation and the Act on the right of municipalities to charge fees for certain public space leases be amended to allow municipalities to differentiate charges on parking spaces according to the environmental characteristics of vehicles. My question to the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party is why the proposals are delayed. Why is preparation so slow if we agree that this is important? One possibility, of course, is also the use of economic instruments, and we in the Liberals think this is important. But economic instruments should give individuals the opportunity to choose, and then there are alternatives. Several taxes announced by the government are not about environmental measures but about pricing what you do not like. It is about preventing competition, and there we have a different view. There's a big difference. We ask ourselves: How can aviation become more climate-friendly? How can heavy transport become more climate friendly? How can the car develop, and what is the future use of cars? How can more people go cycling? There are many questions, but what about the answers? A national cycling strategy shines with its absence. Rules for car pools are missing – they are prepared. Differentiated parking fees are also prepared. New solutions for climate-friendly flights are missing. Heavy vehicles are denied the ability to drive, even if the road lasts, for reasons of economic policy and competition – not for environmental reasons. It's not sustainable. We in the Liberals believe that a response to the major climate challenge is to create the conditions for climate-smart transport. We believe that new knowledge and ideas are needed. Dissemination of good practice is needed to build new structures for future solutions. There is a need for technology-neutral solutions aimed at the future. There is a need for a government with a higher level of ambition to make proposals. The climate can't wait.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-691	Mr President, I would like to The transformation of the transport sector in a sustainable direction is one of the major challenges of our time in reducing climate impact. It is necessary to break the dependence of the transport sector on fossil fuels, including by promoting technological developments in electric roads, electric cars and hybrids, and by developing new fossil-free fuels. To make the transition, we need to use transport smarter and work for the transfer of goods and passenger traffic from road to rail and shipping. Fossil fuels must also be replaced by sustainable fuels such as biofuels. Mr President, I would like to The transport sector accounts for about one third of Sweden's total greenhouse gas emissions, and of this third road traffic accounts for 94% of emissions. To reach the goal of a fossil-independent transport sector in 2030 and a climate neutral Sweden in 2045, a number of policy efforts are needed to accelerate the transition. Among other things, it is necessary to electrify the transport system to a greater extent, to introduce a bonus – malus system as soon as possible, and to stimulate car pools, electric roads, electric cars and electric hybrids. Furthermore, it is necessary to expand the charging infrastructure, to increase the availability of biogas and to allow longer and heavier trucks and longer freight trains to transport more goods at a time, while at the same time changing our travel habits so that more people choose public transport, walking and cycling. Mr President, I would like to Cycling has great development potential with good environmental and climate effects as well as health effects. The cycle must be seen more clearly as its own mode of transport and be given higher priority in urban planning and infrastructure investment. It has been shown that when this happens cycling also increases significantly and more people choose the bike instead of the car. The Christian Democrats propose to set up a study to create the possibility for employers to subsidise bicycle and public transport travel to and from work without it being considered a taxable wage benefit, or to allow for a gross salary deduction for public transport tickets. Mr President, I would like to Heavy road traffic is a major source of CO2 emissions. The Christian Democrats therefore want to encourage investment in the production and distribution of renewable fuels. Long-term market rules are needed for investment. For a new fossil-free fuel to break through the industry, one must be able to trust that it can be refuelled everywhere. Biogas is in many ways a smarter alternative from both the climate and health point of view than the biofuels that can be used in today's trucks. In order to get biogas in seriously, therefore, production needs to be stimulated, as well as the expansion of filling stations, not only in Sweden but throughout Europe. Sales of electric hybrids and electric cars have developed very rapidly in recent years. In order to encourage consumers to buy electric hybrids or electric cars, it is important that the charging infrastructure in Sweden is developed. The major obstacle to an increase in the share of electric cars today is the uncertainty associated with the hitherto poor roll-out of the infrastructure. Electric cars and hybrids have great development potential. Efforts on charging poles are important, as is facilitating the different ways of charging through technology development and coordination between companies providing the systems. The Christian Democrats therefore want continued support for investment in charging infrastructure. This support should be available to companies, housing associations, private and municipal housing companies and municipalities. A coherent approach needs to be developed for electric cars, as well as a common charging standard for electric cars in the EU. It should also be a matter of course that electricity should be approved as an alternative fuel in the so-called pump act. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats want to introduce a so-called "malus" system where environmentally friendly vehicles with relatively low carbon dioxide emissions receive a bonus at the time of purchase, while vehicles with high carbon dioxide emissions receive higher taxes. In order to promote the emergence of car pools, as has been mentioned earlier, and the use of car pools, it is important to create a legal definition of the concept of car pool in order for municipalities to create parking spaces for car pools. Mr President, I would like to A majority in the committee agrees that the Government should review the possibility of introducing a system of differentiated take-off and landing charges for aviation to stimulate the use of biofuels and therefore proposes that the Riksdag announce this to the Government. Air travel is important as a mode of transport and is of great importance for growth in the country and for passenger and freight transport, and it connects Sweden and makes us available to the rest of the world. At the same time, it is important that aviation also reduces its share of the environmental impact. There are several examples of how to do so. Differentiated take-off and landing charges, green approach corridors, energy efficient aircraft and an increased share of fossil-free fuels contribute to reducing the climate impact of aviation. The Single European Sky shortens air travel time and reduces negative environmental impacts. The United Nations Civil Aviation Organisation, ICAO, has also agreed to limit emissions from aviation, which is an important global instrument for reducing climate emissions from international flights. The agreement will stabilise the CO2 emissions of international aviation at the 2020 level. Mr President, I would like to The transformation of the transport sector in a sustainable direction is necessary in order to reduce the climate impact. I support the Christian Democrats' reservations Nos 7 and 13 and the Alliance-wide reservation No 8.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-708	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party is behind the system of good men. We believe that the vast majority of people take seriously the task and take care of the principal, who is the one who needs help in the first place. The system of good men is under pressure. Above all, it has been in the last few years when we have had greater migration than in a very long time. We want to see professionalisation precisely when it comes to unaccompanied minors and asylum seekers young people and better supervision of good men, with clarification of the responsibility of the authorities for their activities. In most places, the activities of good men, the transferors, work well despite the fact that it is often heavily burdened. In essence, we believe that the system of good men, which is based on voluntary activity and a high degree of ideality, is important at a time when more and more in society becomes institutionalised, official practice and anonymous to the individual who has a need and who makes use of these services. For the same reason that we like the system of good men, we like the proposal for future powers, and we have been pushing for the system. But nothing is so good that it cannot be further improved. Our concern here is about those who end up in the situation where the need for this support falls out. It does so decades after the power of attorney was issued. Much may then have happened with relationships, and the memories of the issue of the power of attorney may have been influenced by the passage of time and by events that have occurred since the power of the future was issued. It is these considerations, among other things, that lead the Center Party to come up with the proposal for an electronic notification, which we have now received an announcement in committee since the Alliance jointly and the Center Party had exercised on the matter. Once such an electronic notification has been received and recorded, the information is available and does not need to be hidden away in a safe, a cover or a pile of paper for many years – safe and secure for all involved, it may seem. But if things change and the fear that it is not possible to trust the proxy holder then turns out to be true, the Center Party believes that the rights of the one who once established the mandate, the proxy provider, should be strengthened more than is now the case. Therefore, in our motion, we call for it to be possible to withdraw a power of attorney that has entered into force by law, without it being stated in the power of attorney that it should be possible to do so. It would therefore be logical for the powers of the future, which according to the announcement should already be registered, for example with the transfer guardian, to be legally reviewed, for example with the support of the transferor. We feel it is a pity that the government has not taken sufficient account of this. It is also unclear to what extent a future mandate gives the proxy holder the power to buy and sell also a non-residential property. This may be an agricultural property or a property with several private residences in it. Rather, such a test could be carried out by the transferor. Mr President, I would like to We support our motion and reservation in that part, but we choose not to apply for reservation 1. Instead, we are focusing on the second part of the report, which concerns a new form of representation. For us in the Center Party, it is a strange idea that we here today, through a club team in the Riksdag, should establish a order in which relatives should enter and represent their aging relative. Think about it! The report says that there is a legal framework for the day-to-day legal acts that many relatives are already carrying out. Then a friend of order wonders: What problem needs to be corrected? Many relatives are already doing what they want to regulate here. For the Center Party, such a rule is most offensive, and I am extremely surprised that no one else in this House has questioned this. If a future mandate does not exist, I have previously explained how it can lose its topicality and simply be forgotten, without the possibility of being tried out, it is intended that deputies should be lined up in the following order: They should then be able to establish powers between each other if they so wish. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party has no objection to family members taking responsibility in this way. In most cases, if they are capable and it is practically possible, it may happen in the very order – which, incidentally, is the same as the right of inheritance. The difference is that in most cases it is something that normally decides for itself, by consensus among the immediate circle of relatives. Perhaps it is not always without conflict, but if such conflicts arise, I do not think that rules such as these will make it easier to come to an agreement. Perhaps they even contribute to more conflicts. What do we know? There are several referrals that agree with me. For example, the National Association of Good Men and Managers points out that once such a sequence is established, the question arises as to which order will then apply within the respective categories, for example in a sibling group, among children, grandchildren or nephews. Is it automatically the elder who is to enter? There's no mention of that. Any particular children, who are not quite rare today, are completely abandoned and are thus ranked by the nephews, who cannot be considered to be exactly among the closest relatives. As a result, those on the lower list avoid responsibility for their family members whom they should have taken, or they do not feel comfortable with being excluded from the list of close relatives, if in fact they have previously had a close relationship with the person who has been in need of help. It is as if the proposal on deputy representation has fallen completely below the radar and has not been highlighted at all in the way that we in the Center Party would like to see. In fact, there are a number of heavy consultation bodies which question the need and also point to the very problems that may arise, with in-depth conflicts within the family and a problem of demarcation. The banking and insurance sector is dissuading itself because the proposal gives them a responsibility that they do not want to take in order to find out for themselves who is the next of kin and so-called representative. It also brings with it a lot of new practical problems for them. These are problems which, without this legislation, are easily solved in the family before going to the bank or insurance company, as is being done today. Mr President, I would like to With this, I support the Centre Party's reservation 3 on representation. It is probably good to have legal representation for relatives, but such a ranking that is proposed here creates more problems than it solves. It is a fine example of such things that Parliament should not legislate on.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-728	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 2 by the Liberals. A future power of attorney means that an individual can choose a person who can represent you if he becomes capable of making decisions later in life. We in the Liberals have been fighting for this reform, including through the work of MEP Barbro Westerholm, for many years. Why, can you ask? For us Liberals, this is a question of strengthening people's self-determination over their own future. Future powers give people greater power to plan and maintain control over important matters such as finances, care and where to live when you can no longer decide for yourself. For us liberals, future powers are a reform of freedom. It was the alliance government that in 2013 commissioned an investigator to write the departmental spromemoria that forms the basis of the government's bill today. Although we support the new law, this does not mean that the government provides a comprehensive solution. Many problems remain. On the Liberal side, we would particularly like to highlight five problems with the proposed legislation. Firstly, there is a lack of future powers in health care. The Government's draft legislation does not allow future powers for measures in health care or dental care, despite the fact that the Report on the position of decision-makers in health care, care and research in 2015 presented in a report a ready-made legislative proposal that enables a proxy holder to represent the individual in relation to health care when one no longer has the ability to take a position. It is a bad thing that the government has not yet completed the preparation of this report, nor has it set a timetable. We are therefore discussing today half a piece of legislation on the powers of the future rather than a whole. Regrettably, crucial parts are missing. Secondly, the distinction between healthcare and care is unclear. The exclusion of health care from the present legislative proposal also poses problems of demarcation. For example, in its referral, the National Board of Health and Welfare calls for clarification as to which healthcare is excluded and points to practical problems n is an individual, for example, receiving both municipal health care as well as interventions and support from social services. Who decides what? In the bill, the government states that it is not possible to leave any list of what is excluded and what is caring. It is in my opinion to leave the walkover and create uncertainty and great problems for the practical application of the law. Liberals believe that the government should initiate clarification guidelines regarding the distinction between care and healthcare in the situations covered by the bill. I would also like the Social Democrats and the Green Party to explain in their speeches the distinction between care that is part of the law that we are debating today and healthcare that is not included. Right now, no one knows where that line goes, not even the National Board of Health and Welfare. I doubt the government itself knows where the boundaries are. Thirdly, in an alliance motion, we jointly propose that future powers be registered digitally in a national register. That doesn't allow the government's bill. Liberals believe that future powers established on paper should also be able to be submitted to this register later and thus become digital. Why? My answer is quite simple: because it is the 21st century and not the 19th century, which the government seems to have forgotten. The Liberals are therefore pleased that the Alliance's motion will be an announcement that hopefully will be put through this afternoon. Unlike the government, the Alliance and the parliamentary majority know that the year is 2017. Digital tools should be the main option on these issues, not a complement. We should not have a system that you have to use where you store important powers in a drawer. It's 2017. Fourthly, the possibility of giving gifts threatens the ownership of the proxy. With regard to the power of the proxy holder to give gifts, the Liberals believe that the legislation proposed today is flawed and can be misused. The only limitation contained in the bill is that the amount of the gifts must not be disproportionate to the financial conditions of the proxy. Thus, if the proxy has a significant wealth, the legislation allows for large-value gifts. Liberals believe that this does not provide sufficient protection for the individual's property rights. The legislation should therefore be supplemented in such a way as to make it clear that the right of the proxy holder to give gifts, in so far as this is not regulated in the mandate, is to be limited to personal gifts of minor value. There, the Swedish Tax Agency has many good guidelines that can be used. Fifthly, there is the possibility of hiring experts to help the proxy holder. Liberals share the view that only natural persons may be appointed as proxy holders. On the other hand, we believe that the government overlooks the situation in which the proxy holder may temporarily have to use qualified assistance to fulfil his mandate. This may include, for example, that the proxy holder needs expert help to protect the proxy's interests in complex financial or legal matters. According to the Liberals, representation should be limited to a certain economic or legal matter, and it must also be temporary. Sweden's oldest and perhaps wisest and most experienced Member of Parliament Barbro Westerholm usually says that politics is a marathon – it is important to last the longest. I am absolutely convinced that Mr Barbro Westerholm is right and that in the future we will be standing here in Parliament again and debating the introduction of future powers in health care. I look forward to that, because today we are voting through half a piece of legislation.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-746	Mr President, I would like to Future powers are a new form of representation for adults. Is that something important? Yeah, in 1989, I could use one of those. My mom was in the hospital. She could possibly write her signature, but it was a straight line. I could not go to the bank with a straight line signature, Mr President. We children had to lay out for rent and other things that heard about the practical. It had to go; we had to work it out. But what if there had been a mandate for the future? As we heard earlier, the issue was raised in 2013, and the alliance government appointed an investigator. In the spring of 2015 the committee discussed a motion by Emma Henriksson, the Christian Democrats, together with other alliance representatives on just future powers. At that time, the committee proposed an announcement that the government should return to Parliament as soon as possible with a legislative proposal on future powers and rules of jurisdiction for relatives. This was also decided by the Parliament, and now they are here, which is very welcome. It is about people of flesh and blood in a very vulnerable situation in life, and this legislation makes it a little easier. Sooner or later, many people suffer from illness or a loss of health that causes difficulties in caring for themselves and their finances. We know that with an increasing number of older people in the population, the need for help is increasing. The debate today is about a law on the powers of the future that gives individuals an opportunity to appoint someone who can take care of their personal and financial affairs, if they later in life could not do so themselves. Future powers are an alternative to the system of good men and trustees and a complement to ordinary mandates. According to the Government proposal, our report and the Parliament's decision later today, the powers of the future will be able to strengthen the self-determination of individuals by improving the possibilities of planning the future and maintaining control over issues of great importance to individuals. The committee welcomes the government's proposal for legislation on future powers. We agree essentially, although there are two reservations where we want to go further. The regulation of the powers of the future is a good complement. A system of forward-looking powers improves the possibilities for individuals to plan their future and retain control. An opportunity to appoint your own representative also creates good conditions for a good relationship between the individual and the deputy. You have plenty of time to discuss how you want it and how to solve the practical. You also know who to talk to. The Alliance parties have exercised – and the whole committee has supported – to allow electronic future powers. In the bill, the government states that it is in itself in favour of electronic handling of documents, but that the issue of the establishment and management of electronic forward-looking powers is complex and requires special consideration. The committee is now setting its foot and saying that we also welcome the electronic handling of documents. The government should take the initiative to consider the issue of establishing and managing electronic forward-looking powers. It is an announcement to the government that we will soon decide on. Mr President, I would like to I welcome the powers of the future. They are strengthening for the little man in a vulnerable situation.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-758	Mr President, I would like to Many in our society have the will but not the ability to take care of everything that is needed in our everyday lives. Sooner or later in life, many suffer from illness, such as dementia, which makes it difficult to take care of themselves and their finances. The need for help increases with the ageing of the population. A person may be given a deputy in the form of a good man or steward if he is in any way prevented from guarding his rights or taking care of himself or his or her affairs. The future powers that we are to decide on today are complementary to good men or good stewards. Future Consummation means that the individual is given the opportunity to decide and appoint someone to handle his or her affairs in good time when he or she can no longer do so himself. The power-holder shall have a duty to be loyal to and consult with the proxy provider, who shall also be allowed to appoint a special reviewer. The reviewer and the transfer guardian shall have the right to request a statement of the assignment and be allowed to act if, for example, the proxy holder misuses his or her trust. The proposal for a future mandate is a good one. It provides an opportunity to get support and help when you become unable yourself, and it is very important for all people in Sweden to get equal rights regardless of ability. The committee also proposes an announcement. According to the committee, the government should take the initiative to consider the issue of the establishment and management of electronic forward-looking powers. The powers of the future that are now being proposed provide a legal framework for what many are already doing today. It will be clearer and easier for those who are already taking care of what their relatives need help with. With this, I call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for the announcement proposed by the committee.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-764	Mr President, I would like to I just have a short question. I would like the Social Democrats and the Government to explain why you say no to the National Board of Health and their opinion on borderline problems in relation to health care on the one hand and care on the other. What is your definition of care and health care? What is included and what is not included in this legislation? That's what the National Board of Health wants to know. I doInge know that right now.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-765	Mr President, I would like to There is currently an investigation into future powers in healthcare, and we do not think that we should precede it. We need to wait to see what it has to say. The investigation will, of course, look at boundaries and what should be included in the mandates for the future.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-766	Mr President, I would like to It is incredibly worrying that the government today wants to introduce legislation where there are clear bordering problems. It has not been made clear what is included and what is not included in the legislation. It is quite obvious that the government does not know. It is quite obvious that the National Board of Health and Welfare does not know. And it is also quite clear that Member of Parliament Eva Lindh has no idea where the distinction goes between care and health care. How can this legislation be used? What should the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare say when people who receive health care come from healthcare and there is also someone else who comes with a warrant. Then they don't know if it's valid or not. These problems are quite obvious. What the National Board of Health and Welfare has requested, which the Social Democrats do not seem to know, is that the government is taking the initiative for a mission in which the boundaries are clarified. New legislation is not being called for. Will the Social Democrats work to ensure that these border problems are actually solved? Or are you going to wait several years before new legislation comes?
i-94083c28b6fa802a-770	Mr President, I would like to As I said, there is already an investigation into this. We think it is important to come forward with a proposal for a future mandate and not to wait, because it is an important reform. We are now providing a legal framework for what is already being done. There will probably be some question marks. It does when you introduce a new law. These question marks need to be straightened out. And I will be as anxious as Robert Hannah that the legal question marks that exist will be straightened out.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-772	Mr President, I would like to Eva Lindh, in her speech, only touched on the question of future powers. There we agree in principle. There is a small area of conflict raised by Robert Hannah, and this was seen earlier. However, since the government has backed the proposal not to have an electronic registration but only to handle paper powers, there is now a great deal of agreement. What Eva Lindh did not touch on is the major problem that arises when there is no future mandate. It's time. 16 we shall decide in this Chamber with a club team that the order that relatives enter when there is no power of attorney is husband/cohabiting partner, children, grandchildren, parents, siblings, nephews– but not children of the siblings, because they are not on the list. What I am curious to know is whether Eva Lindh and the Social Democrats believe that it is politicians who should decide in which order families and relatives can decide for themselves how they should be represented in cases where there is no mandate.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-775	Mr President, I would like to Ola Johansson! Order regulation is introduced to avoid conflicts that have existed in the past. That is why this has been mentioned. The government has taken a turn which it believes should be quite self-evident in our society. That's about the order many people have. It exists to avoid conflicts. This is one way of solving the difficulties that have existed, and I agree with the proposal.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-776	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Eva Lindh, for your answer! It may be that the government has proposed a rotation that many often choose. But now we're making a decision about a rotation that you have to follow. The claim that this would mean the elimination of conflicts is merely an assumption. It is likely that new areas of conflict will be created between those people who are not sufficiently high in ranking to be counted as relatives in the event that a person needs support and help from his or her loved ones. I'm surprised you don't even reflect on the order. Perhaps I am not surprised that the Social Democrats think that the state should decide things like these. Problems may arise when we decide in Parliament on a ranking of this kind. It would also be interesting to hear Eva Lindhs's thoughts about the order in which children should enter. And why are children of specialities not included in the list of relatives at all? They are quite common in many family constellations. A special child may have a much stronger relationship with the relative to be cared for than, for example, the nephews. I would like answers to these questions.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-780	Mr President, I would like to Ola Johansson! I think it is a good thing that there is a rule of order because it clarifies it and because many conflicts have arisen in the past. Now we're making a decision about future powers. I hope that this will be better known so that many people write them. This is also a way of showing who you want to give your trust and authority to, who can then take care of things you need help with. We can all be helped to spread this knowledge so that people can write a future mandate.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-782	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the civil committee's report CU11 Future powers – a new form of representation for adults. The proposal provides for greater freedom for the individual to be able to influence his or her own future, as well as greater security for his or her family members. Sooner or later, many people suffer from illness or a loss of health. As we also have demographic developments in our country in the future, where more and more people are getting older, the risk of suffering from dementia or reduced health conditions that cause difficulties in taking care of yourself and your economy increases. So far, it has not been possible to decide for yourself who has the right to handle your legal, financial or personal affairs in the future if you end up in a situation where you lose your decision-making power. That is why long-term work has been going on to produce legislation on so-called future powers, which we are debating today. The improvement work on guardians and good men was carried out throughout the reign of the previous alliance government, and it is therefore gratifying that the government has now come forward with a proposal on the matter. On the moderate side, we therefore welcome the fact that new legislation is coming into force and that the new law on the powers of the future is now coming into force on 1 July this year. Sweden will thus be the last country in the Nordic countries to introduce this very thing. The system of forward-looking powers has been in place in our neighbouring countries for several years and is judged to have worked very well there. Future power of attorney is a power of attorney that becomes valid at a future time when a person can no longer review the consequences of his or her decision. It is a new form of representation for adults and is an alternative to good men and trustees and a complement to ordinary mandates. Future consent should enable those who suffer from dementia in older days, for example, to appoint a person to take care of their finances and make decisions about their care and housing. Thanks to the new system, we are thus strengthening the individual's self-determination and improving his ability to plan for his own future and thus retain control of matters of great importance. With regard to the very requirements of a future mandate, they will be similar to those of wills today. A future mandate should be established by a person aged 18 or over who has the ability to take care of his or her affairs, both financially and personally. The proxy holder may be a family member or another person trusted by the proxy provider. The power of attorney may also appoint several persons, such as one who has knowledge of legal matters and another for economic matters. The power of attorney will be valid only when the person acting as a proxy becomes capable of making decisions. It is the proxy holder who decides when the power of attorney enters into force, but there should also be an opportunity to have the matter examined in court. Happily, a united committee now supports the government's bill. However, there is one important aspect to the question that the proposal does not resolve satisfactorily, namely that there is no room for anyone who so wishes and wants to establish a future mandate electronically, but it can only be done on paper. With today's digitalisation perspective, it is out of date not being able to create room for electronic future powers. That is why we call on the government, by means of a announcement, to take the initiative to consider the issue of the establishment and management of electronic forward-looking powers. Mr President, I would like to The system of future powers thus means a welcome change that will strengthen the individual's right to decide for himself who can make decisions for you later in life and when you no longer have that possibility. I support the proposal of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs in its report CU11.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-792	Mr President, I would like to A future power of attorney means giving someone else the opportunity to act in advance when you are affected by something that makes you need help. It may be sickness, accident, or age that may require the help of someone else, and then the powers of the future exist as an opportunity to simplify and clarify what applies. This is, to some extent, a regulation of something that family members do today and have done in the past, but in a more unclear form than is actually right. The Swedish Democrats are in favour of the introduction of future powers. Future powers enable people to decide for themselves who will represent them when they can no longer do it on their own. This can strengthen the family feeling, while at the same time giving the individual more opportunity to influence. A great advantage should be for those who know who they want to take over responsibility and who are proactive enough to fill in a future mandate. The future will tell whether it will work as well as it is intended and to what extent it will be used. As a representative of a family-friendly party, it is clearly to be welcomed that improvements are now being made which also aim to strengthen family ties and family ties. This is a complement to good men and stewards, and I think that many would rather choose a person from their own family or someone else who is close to representing you when you can no longer speak for yourself. At the same time, unfortunately, the system of good men in recent years has tended to crack, not least as a result of excessive demand for good men. The whole system of good men needs to be reviewed. But the power of the future is not supposed to replace that system but hopefully serve as a complement for those who want to make use of it. Mr President, I would like to Among the accompanying proposals worth mentioning are a couple from the Center Party. The fact that the powers of the future would be registered with an authority – I suppose the tax authority – is an idea that I will take with me and think about further. However, it feels very much like the premium at present, when even wills can not be registered voluntarily. Let us begin by creating a voluntary register of wills, and perhaps we can extend it to include future powers in the near future. On the other hand, starting with future powers feels like the wrong order for me. A voluntary register of wills was not something that the Center Party supported, but now that they have found out the advantages of registering, they may also see the benefits of a will register. We think, however, that we should start with the will register. Then we can discuss records for future powers. That is why we do not support the proposal today, but we will certainly have reason to come back to that issue in the future. The same applies to the Center Party's claim concerning detailed regulation of the rules of rotation between relatives in relation to so-called representation of relatives. This means that relatives have the right to enter a certain order of preference when representing relatives. Unfortunately, it is always difficult to create rules that suit everyone, and all families are unique because they are made up of individuals. Some form of ranking needs to be done, but perhaps the best thing would be if it could be adapted as far as possible to suit the individual's needs. The Swedish Democrats choose not to support this proposal either at present, but look forward to being able to discuss it further in the future. I support the committee's proposal.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-798	Mr President, I would like to The feminist red-green government is continuing to work tirelessly to improve the conditions for all who live and live in this country. Improvements to schools, health care and care are priorities for work in the area of welfare. Increased operational security for infrastructure such as rail, broadband, roads, water and sewers is of course essential, and climate work is progressing with great strides. Increased housing construction and better opportunities for higher studies are just a few more examples of how the feminist red-green government develops Sweden. The issue of future powers, Mr President, has been on the agenda for quite a long time. In 2002, an investigation mission was issued, which resulted in proposals in this area in 2004. Then, unfortunately, nothing happened for a long time, until the then alliance government in 2013 gave an expert assignment. There was a government letter in 2014. Then there has been government work on this. Now, after many years of work, comes a proposal that one might consider to be the beginning of a new era of opportunities for a person to govern and influence his existence even after he has lost the ability to do so concretely. Future power of attorney as a legal form I think will develop and change quite a lot as applications and experiences provide more to build on, because it is a bit of an untested area. It is not uncommon for older people to give their children a traditional mandate to run the private economy as the ability to manage their affairs deteriorates and the question is who can be trusted. In many cases, it is the children. It's not very unusual. I would also like to say that a single article in the media is sufficient to show how older people have been fooled by, for example, a trustee or a very good person in order to create greater concern and uncertainty among older people, even if this is part of the real unusualities of our society. But it is not always the inability to care for one's own affairs that creeps forward with increasing age so that one can see what is happening. Any one of us could be affected. Someone in this room, among the audience or us, can get right what it is to have a heart attack and lose abilities. On our way home from here, we can have the bad luck of getting hit by a car. Suddenly you no longer have that ability to take care of your own affairs. Its own administration must be taken care of by someone else. It can strike like lightning from the clear sky, as you say. Therefore, to be able to decide in good time how to manage your own affairs when your ability is lost is, of course, a huge improvement in self-determination, freedom and security. I think this is a major step in the right direction. Future power of attorney is supposed to be much more than a traditional power of attorney. It shall be capable of being designed in such a way as to enable the proxy provider to function as an active person to a large extent even when the ability to act has ceased. It replaces to a large extent the administrator and the good hen and function we have. It can also serve as a complement, for it can be both limiting and quite opening. That is why it gives the proxy a great deal of opportunity, I think, to choose between different ways to get their future taken care of. This system will certainly prove to be filled with various kinds of problems. It will not be trouble-free or easy to handle. The fact that the proxy can appoint a reviewer to keep his thumb in the eye of the proxy holder can be positive. But it can also have the opposite effect and be a way of reducing the relationship of trust between the proxy provider and the proxy holder. Over the years it will prove its practical consequences, I think. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report and reject all reservations. Then it is customary to argue a little bit about why we are calling for the reservations to be rejected. In this case, I find it quite difficult. In fact, I think that the issues raised by the reserves are quite relevant and that the reservations contain some sensible points of view. It may turn out after a few years of practical use that the regulatory framework that we are now going to decide on here today, because we are in the process of concluding the debate before 3.30 p.m. 16.00, perhaps means far too much freedom for the proxy provider to transfer management, as I understand the Center is worried about in its first reservation. It may also turn out that much more is needed of regulation in the system, as I see the Liberals think. They are in their reservation afraid of the need to regulate more. The third reservation, which the Center Party has, seems to me to be more ideologically based. I am not so sure that a few years of practical experience will give us so much guidance on the rules of rotation. I may find the argument a little strange. Nevertheless, there is a difference between a stewardship and the daily care of a relative or a relative with limited ability to care for their daily needs. But I think it can lead to a little discussion that can be quite interesting. It makes clear what is working in practice today to a large extent, that the rule of rotation coincides with the rule of succession. I find it hard to imagine any other order if you're going to have an order. It is just to make visible something that is working today. I think the reservations are very thoughtful. However, I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-812	Mr President, I would like to So far, it has not been possible for a person to decide for himself who has the right to deal with legal, financial and personal matters in the future if he or she ends up in a situation where he or she loses his or her decision-making power. However, this will now be possible by means of the legislative proposal on the powers of the future. It is a welcome proposal that has been discussed for a long time. Future consent means that the person who is healthy and in the right mind can decide who will make the decision when the person can no longer make it. It is of course a great security to know in advance who will take care of your finances when you no longer manage it yourself. Future powers strengthen individuals' self-determination by improving their ability to plan the future and maintain control over issues that are of great importance to them. An opportunity to appoint one's own representative also creates good conditions for a well-functioning relationship between the individual and the deputy. Sooner or later in life, many suffer from illness, such as dementia, which makes it difficult to take care of themselves and their finances. The need for help is also increasing, given that we have an ageing population. Future powers are an alternative to good man and trustees and a complement to ordinary mandates. It is something that can also relieve society in this area. The proposal is well balanced when it says that issues relating to financial and personal matters should be covered by a future mandate, but that measures in health care or dental care and certain issues of a distinct personal nature should not be covered at the moment, but that it needs to be reviewed a little better and investigated more. The establishment of future mandates shall be in writing and shall be signed and witnessed by two witnesses. A proxy holder must be one or more natural persons. Thus, a future power of attorney is a power of attorney for another person to care for the personal and financial affairs of the proxy when it is no longer able to handle it on its own. It is the power holder who decides when the power of attorney of the future comes into force. However, there should also be an opportunity to have the matter tried in court. The power-holder shall have a duty to be loyal to and consult with the proxy provider, who shall also be allowed to appoint a special reviewer. The reviewer and the transfer guardian shall have the right to request a statement of the assignment and be allowed to act if, for example, the proxy holder misuses his or her trust. We live in an increasingly digitised world and more and more people manage their activities online. The government does not oppose the introduction of electronic forward-looking powers, but believes that this is a complex issue that does not fit in with the current legislative dossier, but that there may be reason to come back. However, I share the committee's view and support the announcement that the government should take the initiative in considering the issue of establishing and managing electronic future powers. With this, I support the proposal and welcome the proposal for a future mandate.
i-9fTMRuSPC4Q2kiPP5Yd6wi	Mr President, I would like to Today we have to deal with a motion report, MJU15, which deals with motions from the general period of exercise dealing with waste and cycles. We deal with 80 exercises that mainly concern circular economy, producer responsibility, deposit systems, food waste, source sorting of food waste, plastics, marine litter, contaminated areas, transport of hazardous waste and more. The committee proposes that all motions be rejected, in many cases on the grounds that work is under way on these issues. The allowances concern several important areas that are high on the global agenda, and rightly so. An increasing population will mean an increase in consumption that puts even more pressure on our natural resources, and they are not endless. Mr President, I would like to The generational goal decided by the Riksdag is the overall objective of environmental policy. It describes that we will hand over to the next generation a society where many of our environmental problems will be solved. It will require hard work in many countries for many years to come. The EU's waste hierarchy is part of its efforts to achieve a circular economy. We will prevent and prepare for reuse. We will recycle materials and have other recycling like recycling energy out of it. We will have disposal of landfills that should be as small as possible. Sweden is in many ways an example for the rest of Europe, where the waste hierarchy is often overlooked and a large proportion of waste is placed in landfills or remains on large landfill sites with leakage as a result. It is therefore very different in the countries when it comes to how far the waste hierarchy has been worked out. The Moderates believe that it is important for Sweden and the government to push for the European Commission's circular economy proposal to be designed in such a way that it becomes a strong tool for reducing waste and landfills across the EU. The government should therefore work to ensure that the EU circular economy package is balanced and balanced. The environment is the most global thing we have. We're sharing a globe. We have the same air and water that circulates around our earth. Environmental work must therefore also take into account where the impact of various measures is greatest, i.e. where the environmental benefits are greatest. The policy's task is to create good conditions for actors to take responsibility and to safeguard the polluter pays principle. Mr President, I would like to There is a political consensus that it should be easy to do the right thing. It should be easy for citizens to sort and increase the amount of waste that can be recycled. What is the best way to achieve this is not always as agreed, as is so often the case in politics. We can agree that something should be achieved, but we do not always agree on how to get there. It's not just this area. We'll see where we end up. This applies, for example, to collection responsibility for packaging and newspapers. The objective is agreed, as I mentioned earlier. We want more collection and more recycling. But where the responsibility should lie there are still discussions on. I'm sure it'll go on like that. So-called round table discussions have taken place. We'll see where we end up in the future. So far, we haven't got that far. Producer responsibility for and management of pharmaceutical residues and textiles are other important areas to discuss. It is important to find good forms of collection and disposal and, where appropriate, to adjust and adapt the legislation. As far as pharmaceuticals are concerned, research is under way on new treatment methods to prevent residues from reaching our seas, but there is a long way to go. Here too, the whole of the EU must work to reduce emissions of, among other things, pharmaceutical residues. Sweden, for example, has the lowest antibiotic use for animals throughout the EU, which means that the release of drug residues via urine from animals is naturally lower in us and much higher in other countries where antibiotic use is incredibly much greater. When these residues reach watercourses and oceans, they have major negative effects on the animals living in our seas. Fish are at risk of becoming resistant, and they also risk becoming infertile when preventile residues leak out. This, as we all understand, can have incredible consequences. Marine junk has become an increasingly serious problem. It floats around large collections of plastic products that harm many animals that get stuck in them or try to eat the garbage. Action must be taken here both in Sweden and, perhaps above all, at EU level and also globally. Sweden takes a big responsibility and a large part of the bill to reduce the marine debris, although the debris often comes from other countries. The Swedish Bohus coast, for example, is reached by as much rubbish as the rest of Sweden's coasts. Sweden must therefore work to ensure that costs are distributed more fairly within the EU. It is important that Sweden clearly pursues the issue of joint and several financing of various measures. As I said before, our environment is the most global we have. We have an earth that we all share. This means that we must work internationally on these issues. We in Sweden can be a leader in the work, but in the longer term international efforts are needed if we are to reach the generational goal of handing over a better world to future generations. Human impact on the environment is undisputed, and much work needs to be done to reduce our emissions. This work must be done everywhere. International work and cooperation are therefore needed. All countries must contribute. Our environment is a matter of destiny and a question of the future. It's a question of our future for all of us. We are, of course, behind all our motions, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation no. 1.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-838	Mr President, I would like to We are debating waste and cycles today. These issues are a huge problem in many countries. Worldwide, we can see how landfills grow and cause sanitary problems. The garbage is landfilled or burned with no real intention of recovering or extracting energy. It's mostly about getting rid of everything. This means, of course, under-utilisation of resources, and it also poses major sanitary problems. In Sweden, we have come a long way to develop our waste management. We have a lot to be proud of in this area. Not even 1% of all the trash disposed of is deposited today. Half of the treated waste goes to incineration, one-third to recycling and one-sixth to bio-recovery. Ultimately, it is a matter of avoiding litter and pollution, and of using waste as a material and energy resource. Here Sweden is fantastically good in an international perspective. Mr President, I would like to What is a major problem today is the plastics. Plastic is a material that normally takes a very long time to break down. The plastics consist of polymers, which are not harmful in themselves but contain other chemicals that can affect ecology and health. Not least animals which, for one reason or another, ingest the plastic, are affected, and then human beings are affected. In addition, fat soluble chemicals accumulate in the food chain. Especially problematic is plastic in the marine environment, not least because ocean currents involve an uncontrolled spread and because the plastic tends to be finely distributed to microplastics, which are absorbed by aquatic animals. Between 1.5 and 4.5 percent of all manufactured plastic ends up in the sea. It is about 4 – 12 million tonnes per year. This is an international problem, but Sweden should of course play its part in trying to improve the situation in the best possible way. As Sweden is the country that has the longest coastline towards the Baltic Sea, we also have great opportunities to work on the issues. The Swedish Democrats want to see a change. We recommend SEK 150 million extra for measures for the marine and aquatic environment during the current budget period. We think that the money should be spent, among other things, on mapping flows of plastic – both microplastic and macroplastic. Academy, industry and trade should be required to evaluate different plastics from an environmental point of view. Measures should be taken to reduce the overall use of plastic products. Plastics with a particularly high environmental load should of course be replaced by other materials. We look forward to seeing the announced concrete proposals from the government in this area. Mr President, I would like to It is a little symptomatic for Swedish debate on waste issues that the biggest question at the moment is who should be responsible for the collection of packaging. It should not be very important who is responsible; the important thing should be an overall picture of how to improve the situation. Instead, much of the debate has thus come to be about who should have the main responsibility for collecting the packaging. The Parliament has made it clear that producer responsibility for packaging should be maintained. The Swedish Democrats have supported this. That does not mean that everything is working perfectly today, but we believe that this is the way forward. It is therefore problematic that, at this stage, the government continues to create uncertainty through new initiatives. There is apparently a stable political majority to maintain producer responsibility. Instead of building on this, however, the government creates uncertainty and draws the issue to the fore. The focus should be on how, within this framework, we can increase cooperation between municipalities and producers and improve recycling. What the government is now doing is hampering development and preventing new investments in the industry. It is harmful, and it does no good to anyone. The issue of producer responsibility for textiles comes in here. Instead of quickly getting a solution in place to improve the recycling of textiles, the committee's proposal is now that all proposals in this area should be rejected precisely with reference to the work at the Government Office, and this work is largely based on the fact that it does not agree with what Parliament has already decided in this House. Mr President, I would like to I will say a few words about the reservation the Swedish democrats have regarding the dismantling of wind turbines. The cost of dismantling an end-of-life wind turbine is about SEK 700 000. This is a current problem in view of the lack of profitability in the industry, while the current legislation does not require financial guarantees that the wind turbine operator also finances its scrapping. Many works are now becoming end-of-life and are approaching their exhausted life span. Combined with the financial concerns of wind power companies, this becomes a problem that may grow. In order to remedy this, the Swedish Democrats believe that there should be demands on wind power developers to fund funds for future demolition of the works – this to ensure that the costs really end up on the right side. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of reservations 10 and 19.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-848	Mr President, I would like to The garbage of the one, the treasure of the other, or the shit of the one, the profit of the other. Yes, Mr President, there are many different ways of expressing what we are debating here today, namely how what we have seen as waste for a long time is actually a valuable resource and how we can ensure that we create the conditions for a circular, rather than linear, circular circular society. It is a society where we not only take virgin raw materials and produce new, use and then throw away, but where we take advantage of what is already on the market and find new ways to reuse the product or raw material. I and the Center Party believe that the sustainable economy and growth of the future must be based on three elements. The economy of the future must be bio-based, non-toxic and circular, and all these elements go hand in hand. Mr President, I would like to In order to have a working cycle, we need to get dangerous substances out of the systems. Many plastic products, for example, cannot be reused or recycled because they contain currently banned, dangerous chemicals. Ensuring that products placed on the market are free of dangerous substances and can therefore be reused and recycled is therefore an important step in achieving a functioning circular economy. We need to strengthen work within REACH, use instruments such as taxes and strengthen work on the supervision of chemicals in goods. But I also believe that a working cycle requires us to phase in products from renewable materials and bio-based raw materials in the system. First of all, of course, we must ensure that the materials already in use are circulated, but when new products are to be manufactured, the green carbon atom is an excellent building block. I have repeatedly spoken in this House about the possibilities of the green carbon atom, that is, how material from the field and the forest can build virtually everything our society needs – from chemicals to clothing and building materials. In order to create the conditions for increased use of bio-based materials, we need to have good rules for raw material-producing companies. We must ensure that the conditions for research and innovation regarding new materials are good, and the public must also be better when it comes to the procurement of, for example, biogas buses, wooden houses and wood-based clothes. Mr President, I would like to When it comes to creating a working cycle, I would like to highlight two day-to-day product groups with which we come into contact on a daily basis, but where large resources are needed in production and for which we must therefore strengthen the cycle. The first group is our food. About a quarter of Swedish households' climate impact comes from food, and how we consume has a major impact on the environment and climate. In a world where the population is constantly increasing and where we can find it difficult to feed the world's mouths by 2050, it is not reasonable for production resources to be used to produce food waste. The Swedish Food Safety Agency, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Agriculture Agency have together had a three-year assignment, appointed by the Alliance Government, to reduce food waste. Both in shops and restaurants as well as in households, food waste has decreased, but Swedes still throw away 50 kilos of edible food per person per year. The climate impact of households' total food waste amounts to 444 000 tonnes per year, which corresponds to the greenhouse gas emissions from an average driving of 360 000 cars over a year. The objective of increasing the collection rate of biodegradable waste has been set in the past, but to go one step further is to introduce a target for the reduction of food waste and waste in order to prevent waste from arising. Such an objective does not exist today, which makes it difficult to show a clear direction of will that drives the efforts of stakeholders. In the context of the introduction of a national target, an intermediate target should also be introduced to clarify the objective and enable follow-up, as should the environmental quality objectives. The second group that I want to highlight is clothing and textiles. In 2013, we bought about 13 kilos of textiles per person, of which 8 kilos were thrown into the garbage and 2.4 kilos were donated to charity. Of what is collected, approximately 0.9 kilos are sold via, for example, secondhand. If we take advantage of the textiles that are thrown into the garbage, we could be more resource efficient by reusing in another way or using the fibers in the clothes to create new garments. Last week I was on a textile tour in Västra Götaland to take part in the development and innovation that exists in the Swedish textile industry today. I visited Velour, who has made the world's first tail-marked jeans from recycled textile fibre. I visited Wargön Innovation, which together with a number of companies is looking at how a system for collecting and recycling textiles in Sweden can be improved. I also visited the Swedish School of Textiles in Borås, and I saw graduates develop fabric of 100 percent paper. Then I visited Smart Textiles, which in 2014 knitted the world's first garment entirely of recycled cotton. Everywhere in Sweden it now pops up loan curtains, clothing libraries and clothing change Apps. Sustainable fashion has become the highest fashion. There is thus a great potential for Sweden to become a large textile nation again. But the key to these exciting projects and companies, which are now popping up around Sweden, is a functioning collection, reuse and recycling. Unfortunately, the collection of textiles today is a grey area, where anyone who submits broken garments to, for example, H&M or Myrorna for recycling is actually guilty of an illegal act today. In the Center Party we believe that producer responsibility for textiles would be an important part of making Sweden a textile nation. Under the 'polluter pays' principle, we want producers also to be responsible for collecting and recycling textiles in order to avoid important resources being thrown into household waste, with, of course, a solution that allows second-hand operations to continue to contribute to sustainability and social values. Mr President, I would like to It is therefore worrying that the government signals that producer responsibility is no longer seen as a fundamental principle of waste management. The government has talked about the desire to engage in political talks, and we are, of course, open to this by the Center Party. It must be easy for consumers and households to submit for recycling, be it textiles or glass. In many parts of the country the collection works well, in other parts of the country it works less well. Some product groups work well and others largely do not work at all. Clearly, there are challenges that we need to solve, and we are happy to talk about this with industry, municipalities and the government. However, the Center Party and I believe that the long-term best thing for strengthening innovation power, facilitating new business models and creating the conditions for a bio-based, non-toxic and circular economy is to have a combined producer responsibility but with high demands on producers, better monitoring of goals and costs and strengthened influence on municipalities. As I said, we look forward to seeing how we can move forward to find a solution that works long-term and really creates the conditions for Sweden to take the lead in the circular economy. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support all the reservations of the Center Party, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 2.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-872	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report on waste and cycles. Much of the waste produced in our country comes from the ever-increasing consumption of goods and services. Consumption has become a lifestyle. It has also become a measure of prosperity among the world's countries. Increased consumption should simply be a measure of the good health of this country. Consumption can be good in many respects. It is good if we consume more culture and more leisure time. It is good if we consume more public services, such as school, health care, care and so on. But consumption also has a negative side. Anyone who pays the price for ever-increasing consumption of gadgets is often our environment. Today's levels of our Swedish consumption are totally unsustainable. The World Wildlife Fund came with its report with the living planet index a few weeks ago. They state: If all the inhabitants of the earth were to live as we do in Sweden, we would need 3.7 Earths. Everyone understands that it is untenable. The word, consumption, comes from the Latin consumer, which means consuming or consuming. I think that puts our finger on what we are doing with our planet: we are consuming our finite resources, and we are consuming our planet completely. We must do something about this, and it is urgent. A direct effect of our ever-increasing consumption is the amount of waste we produce. Each Swedish produces about 450 kilos of garbage per year. It is something that has increased rapidly over the last 20 years, about 50% since the early 1990s. In the long term, we must completely stop using fossil raw materials to produce the goods and services we consume. Until then, we must at least ensure that the use of oil, coal and fossil gas, for example, is significantly more expensive so that the renewable alternatives are much more user-friendly and can be used on a large scale. In our Left Party motion included in this report, we also refer to the need to make consumption visible by setting targets for reducing so-called consumption-based emissions as well. It is emissions that often occur in other countries and that are not currently measured and recorded here in Sweden. If we can have targets also for consumption-based greenhouse gas emissions, we can make this problem visible, and we can measure and monitor the climate effect of our consumption. That is why a target for consumption-based emissions is so important. In this report, we in the Left Party also propose that more packaging should be covered by the pledge system. Today there is a deposit on glass, plastic and aluminium beverage packs. Now there have been a number of new packages that are not covered by the deposit system but could easily be covered by a deposit of SEK 2 or 3 in order to be able to collect them more easily and obtain greater reuse or recycling. We in the Left Party also propose a better standardization of the material used primarily in our packaging. I am thinking in particular of plastic, where there are so many different types on the market today. Kristina Yngwe from the Center Party mentioned earlier that the different plastic varieties on the market contain lots of different chemicals, and that is quite true. It is about 100 000 tonnes of chemicals that are spread in Swedish nature every year only from plastic use. Imagine if we could get to a standard so that only some plastic varieties could be used on the market in Sweden! We could then ensure that all plastics used on the market are also collected and reused or recycled. Today, a very large part of the plastic collected is actually burned because there is no standardisation. Here we politicians must take the lead and put our foot down and say that it is these plastics that are accepted on the market and no others. In reservation 8 of the report, we in the Left Party propose to investigate whether we can follow the French example of banning the disposal of food in the food trade. In France, a law has recently been introduced which simply means that shops providing food are not allowed to throw food away. If there is food that can no longer be sold for any reason, give it away or pass it on to some form of recycling or reuse. I would therefore like to call for the approval of Amendment No 8, which deals with this very issue. In the report, we refer to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's proposal on textiles, which we in the Left Party think is very good and which concerns the inclusion in the waste regulation of a requirement for textiles to be sorted out and then collected. It is a very good proposal, in fact, better than the centre-party proposal for so-called producer responsibility for textiles. We in the Left Party also want a form of deposit system for plastic bags, simply a fee. Revenues should not go to trade but to the state and directly to environmental work. We are also proposing what we call the extension of the life span of electronic products, which means that we should take measures to ensure that electronic products last longer. Such a way can, for example, be a longer warranty period, perhaps three or five years for electronic products. We should also have a ban on what is commonly referred to as planned ageing, that is to say, that mechanisms are being built in which products placed on the market break down approximately once the guarantee period has expired. Mr. Old President! There are a lot of other things in this report that I would like to say something about, but I would like to conclude by mentioning a thread that has been mentioned in previous speeches. This concerns who should be responsible for the collection of household waste. It is a bit sad that we are once again having a debate about who should have this responsibility for collecting packaging and newspapers. Should it be in the municipalities, which are responsible for the rest of the household waste collection, or should it be in the packaging industry? For us in the Left Party it seems entirely logical and rational that our municipalities, which collect the rest of the household waste, should also collect and bring the packaging and newspapers from our households. This was also exactly what the state investigation against sustainable society proposed five years ago. Five years have passed now, and we are waiting for concrete proposals to re-communise the collection responsibility for newspapers and packaging. Nothing happened under bourgeois rule, and unfortunately nothing is happening now under the Social Democratic and environmental party rule. Instead, the Minister for the Environment invites us to continue the round table on this responsibility – when, as I said, we have had an investigation that has already set our foot down. I therefore wonder, Social Democrats and environmentalists: how much longer are we going to have to wait before the municipalities get the full responsibility for collecting packaging and newspapers so that we can have a fully rational and more efficient collection system?
i-94083c28b6fa802a-893	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 12, which deals with marine litter and beach cleaning, but naturally supports the other reservations with which the Liberals are involved and the other proposals in the report which are not affected by these very reservations. When we talk about waste and cycles, there are a number of headings and concepts that are linked together and together give an idea of what it is really about and that has become increasingly relevant. We are talking about the circular economy, which is being discussed both at EU and national level, and we are talking about the concept of polluter pays, which is becoming increasingly viable, green tax exchange, sharing economy, producer responsibility, food waste and more. As suggested here at the beginning, perhaps the word waste for the thought may be a little wrong these days. In any case, all the points on the list play a role for the whole, but I must, of course, be content to focus on a few points in the report. A little simplistic can be said that it is about minimizing waste and making the best use of its value through recycling and recycling. Basically, it's about stopping wasting Earth's resources and smart, sustainable business solutions that benefit both the environment and climate and are based on sustainable consumption. It can be about giving up ownership and sharing, for example through car pools, and there are many other examples of how to rent instead of owning. Such a system provides an incentive for producers to develop products with a long service life. We heard here from Jens Holm that there are some built-in age symptoms, but in such a system it is not relevant. It is important that legislation does not counteract such developments through taxes and regulations as a whole. On the Liberal side, we have put forward a lot of proposals on green tax exchange. This means increasing the tax on environmentally harmful phenomena while reducing the tax on labour, which also belongs in this context. Mr. Old President! In this context, too, the consumer's choice is highly relevant and is, of course, based on the fact that we have products with clear climate and eco-labelling so that the right choices can be made. At least as central is producer responsibility, which must continue to develop. The Alliance government decided in August 2014, i.e. just before the elections, that the responsibility for collecting packaging waste and recycled paper would remain with the producers, with sharply increased demands on the producers. Among other things, it was about the levels at which packaging should be collected and also about cooperation with the municipalities. The aim was to tighten up the system while making use of investments already made that have worked cost-effectively and well. Such a system is also in line with the polluter-pays principle and there is no reason to change this well-established and cost-effective system. Unfortunately, the current government has stopped this work, so it is not going in any direction at all right now. Of course, there are shortcomings in this system that can be highlighted. A lot of what was discussed in 2014 was to improve cooperation and strengthen the influence of municipalities. These are points that need to be developed. One must always bring with it the citizen's perspective that it should be easy to do the right thing and that we should have an equivalent level of service across the country. To be quite clear about the further discussions on the issue, the Liberals' starting point is that we should maintain the principle of producer responsibility and extend it to include textiles, for example. We think that it has worked well for the most part, but we want to remedy the identified shortcomings and problems that have existed. It is sometimes said in debates like this that if you just reorganise the collection and leave it to the municipalities, all the problems are solved, but that is not really true. We can certainly discuss this for a long time, but at least we are convinced that it is not the solution to the problem. Mr. Old President! Now I turn to another waste, which is what lies on our shores and which we, with a fine expression, call marine rubbish. There is a fairly clear relationship of responsibility. It is the municipalities that are responsible for cleaning the beaches. It has cost the municipalities a lot of money to do this. This applies not least on the west coast. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has even pointed out that the Bohus coast occupies a special position when it comes to waste on the beaches as it receives as much on its coastline as the rest of Sweden does during a year. The division of responsibilities between the state and the municipality can well be maintained. But it is very reasonable for the state to take a much greater share of the funding of beach cleaning, because it is not the inhabitants of coastal municipalities who have put the litter on the beaches, but it is an international problem. It floats on land garbage in most countries around the North Sea, the Baltic Sea and so on. Here it is important that we work internationally, and in the best of worlds you stop littering at the source. Sweden can play a very important role in organizations such as Ospar and Helcom. Kimo, the international environmental organisation of municipalities, also discusses these issues. Despite this, we must, unfortunately, accept that we must clean our beaches for several years to come. Dirty beaches are not only an environmental problem in themselves, but they are indeed a major disadvantage for, for example, Bohuslän's so important tourism and tourism industry. With regard to the longer-term environmental threats, about half of the litter lying on the beaches is plastic that falls apart in microplastics. It is then washed back into the sea, entering the food chains, thus creating health problems in both animals and humans. It attracts environmental toxins that enter ecosystems. As I said, it is most reasonable for the government to assume a much greater responsibility. We Liberals have clearly stated in budget discussions that we are prioritising a permanent appropriation, because this is not a problem that will disappear in the coming years. Once again, I am in favour of reservation 12. I might have been able to talk about a lot of other things, but I'm content with this.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-911	Mr. Old President! I think that all of us in here and those who follow this debate recognize themselves in the description of how to go and drag large paper bags filled with disgusting plastic changers, washed-up milk packs, other packaging and a lot of heavy newspapers to some green iglor in town. When you get there it's already overcrowded, dirty and disgusting, so you go on until you find another green iglo in town where you can get rid of your clothes, newspaper, glass jars and other things. The next day comes the municipal garbage man or the garbage man and collects the rest of the household waste. You don't even notice that they're there, but they just collect it. The most rational system and the most reasonable, I think, just like the government inquiry that came five years ago, just like a lot of referrals and just like all local politicians from right to left, would be for the municipal garbage collection to take along the newspaper, plastic changers, glass bottles etc. when they collect the rest of the household waste. But that is not the opinion of the bourgeois plus the Swedish Democrats. I would therefore like to ask Lars Tysklind: Why are you defending a dysfunctional system? Why do you defend a system that leads to more work for all Swedish households plus that much fewer packaging and newspapers are collected?
i-94083c28b6fa802a-915	Mr. Old President! Thank you for asking. This discussion has a bit of an ideological bottom-up – what we think are incentives and driving forces in society. What I object to is that in every discussion we get a description of mismanagement of recycling sites. That's not the picture I have. If I were to describe the recycling station in my municipality, I would not describe it that way, but it certainly works differently in different places. We in the Liberals think that there is much more to producer responsibility than gathering things together. There are incentives to make packaging recyclable. We've been discussing plastic here. Perhaps the fault has been that we have had too low a goal so that only some have been recovered. You could have a higher percentage that you really have to recycle. We discovered that a great deal was burned just because of difficulties in recovering the material. In producer responsibility lies making it recyclable. Now, for example, in the automotive industry, we can see how cars can be made so that they can be separated. Even there we talk about that it is the producer who is responsible for taking care of it later. That drive should not be underestimated. Then we can turn it into a collection issue, and we can continue to discuss funding. It is clear that you can make it a municipal collection and then add it to the cleaning fee. I can put a counter-question to Jens Holm. How will producer responsibility come in? It is clear that you can do as the Left Party wants and state regulate and standardise the content, but how will the incentives for the producer to make good packaging come into such a system?
i-94083c28b6fa802a-922	Mr. Old President! I'd like to answer that. Lars Tysklind said that this would easily become an ideological question, and that is it. It is a question of whether we should let the municipality have full responsibility for collecting all household waste and not just half, as it was before 1994, when this in my opinion dysfunctional system was introduced. I have to ask Lars Tysklind : Do you really think it is a working order as we do today, when we do not have a real estate collection for packaging and newspapers but hundreds of thousands of Swedes every day have to go with their bags and cartons to the recycling gils? Sometimes these are clean and fine because they have just been emptied, but sometimes they have not. At the same time, we have municipal officials who go out to our homes and collect the rest of the municipal garbage. I don't understand the point. Why are you defending a system that so obviously does not deliver it as it should? This is really about ideology. For you, it is important to show that the market takes responsibility. However, when we see that the market is not actually able to accept this responsibility to the extent that we want, we know that we have another system, namely re-communalisation. Producer responsibility comes in so that the packaging industry and producers of course have to pay our municipalities for this service. There are different estimates here, and everything is thoroughly investigated in the investigation that your own bourgeois government commissioned, Lars Tysklind, but which you have now dismissed because it came to the wrong conclusions. I find that very strange. Isn't it, Lars Tysklind?
i-94083c28b6fa802a-927	Mr. Old President! I may not have been quite clear in my main speech – you have a certain time limit – but I'm pretty sure I lifted this up. First of all, there are real estate fundraising in many municipalities, where property owners and rental companies have arranged this and reached some kind of agreement where the municipality is also involved. This can be seen as a very developing part of producer responsibility. It's easy to make it a collection problem. What I was trying to say before was that producer responsibility applies from the time you produce the packaging until you can recycle it. Somewhere along the way, it should be collected, and it may not be the most complicated part. Liberals believe that this is connected and that responsibility should be taken for the whole part. Cooperation, cooperation with municipalities and the influence of municipalities are points I raise where certain shortcomings can be seen. There were some sharpenings in 2014, which in itself is laid on ice now. We can continue to develop the system that we have. The basic principle that producers should take responsibility for their own product so that it can be recycled is important to us. It is not ideological from the point of view that it is some kind of self-interest that the market should solve it, but we absolutely believe that the market solves this problem best. I don't know whether or not to call it ideology.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-931	Mr. Old President! It is not very clever to saw off the branch on which you sit. Yet that is exactly what humanity is doing with our natural resources. We Christian Democrats are based on the principle of stewardship: that we people have a responsibility to manage the finite resources and natural values, not to destroy, not to consume, but to manage and use carefully. The policy should therefore be designed in such a way that the public as well as our companies, civil society and individuals are given the opportunity to do the right thing, i.e. to steer towards good governance and sustainable development. In Sweden, about 15 kg of textiles are consumed per person per year. Of these, about 3 kg goes to reuse. According to an analysis from the research institute IVL, Sweden is among the worst in Europe to collect textiles. We Christian Democrats therefore proposed in our latest budgetary option the introduction of a commodity tax of SEK 10 000 per tonne for non-recycled textiles. In addition to the controlling effect that our proposal would entail, it is estimated to increase tax revenues of about SEK 1 billion per year. The sorting of garbage in our households is now extensive and very important. But at the same time as we expect citizens to sort out sources, the municipal heating plants import unsorted waste from other countries for incineration. It doesn't make any sense. We also proposed in our budget that a tax of SEK 100 per tonne be introduced on the incineration of unsorted waste in order to increase recycling and reduce emissions of environmentally hazardous substances and carbon dioxide. Mr. Old President! Our society needs to be transformed from linear to circular production flows, what is called the circular economy. New solutions and ideas are needed in many areas of society. Product design is needed that takes greater account of environmental concerns, new business and market models, new financing methods and ways of converting waste into resources. At the individual level, consumption behaviour needs to change and purchasing power needs to be more focused on services rather than physical products. This development of society has already begun. There is now a need for better coordination between different policy areas and for administrative and fiscal obstacles that are likely to hamper development to be removed quickly. During its reign, the Alliance government carried out several reforms that made it easier to recover. Among other things, we can now submit small electronics and light bulbs in stores where such things are sold. In addition, the targets for the recycling of newspapers and packaging were raised while authorities are expected to be better at ensuring that services and environmental benefits are developed. An important principle in this context is that it is the polluter who should pay. In this way, we want to apply producer responsibility, in which those who sell a product also have the obligation and the opportunity to ensure that it is designed in a way that makes it easy to recycle. However, the property-related collection works differently well around our country. There are examples where it works really well. But there are also examples of municipalities where the producer and the municipality have not agreed and where there have been locks that have affected the individual citizen, who in some cases have to travel far away to sort out the source. Wherever you live in the country, the systems must work and the costs must be reasonable. Mr. Old President! Plastic breaks down very slowly in nature. Therefore, the levels of microplastics in lakes and seas are gradually increasing. Microplastics can be a deadly threat to fish that ingest the tiny plastic particles. Since they are not broken down in the animals, the microplastics accumulate more and more in the food chain. As a result, some of these plastics end up in human bodies. We need to reduce the use of plastics in disposable products, such as plastic bags. The Christian Democrats therefore want to introduce a tax of SEK 1 per plastic bag. That would give SEK 1 billion to the Treasury per year. But in the second year it may only be 500 million if we bring bags of more environmentally friendly material when we go shopping in the store. There are two outstanding examples of countries that have gone ahead in this area. It is Denmark and Ireland, both EU countries. These countries have long applied a system of taxes on plastic bags. They show good results in the form of drastically reduced use of plastic bags. When Ireland introduced a tax of EUR 0.15 per plastic bag, use fell by 90% in five months, while tax revenues increased by EUR 3.5 million. Between 2001 and 2010, plastic bag litter in Ireland decreased from 5% to 0.25% of all litter. Mr. Old President! With regard to the issue of dealing with old wrecks on the seabed, I and the Christian Democrats welcome the fact that, since our motion was raised, the government has taken hold of this work. However, the proposed Convention on the removal of wrecks does not solve the problems that exist on the Swedish coast with leaking wrecks. Often these wrecks have no owner. It is not always appropriate to remove the wrecks, as they are often in such a bad condition that the situation can get worse. These are both wrecks leaking oil and wrecks leaking chemical weapons, which makes the salvage difficult. Traces of weapons have been found in Norway lobster and in red tongue from an area on the West Coast. According to a report in Aftonbladet TV on 16 February this year, this means that people who eat crayfish from the area may suffer headaches and vomiting as a result of the neurotoxins found in the crayfish. Mr. Old President! Of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats in the report, but for time to come, I choose to endorse only reservation 3 on producer responsibility.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-948	Mr. Old President! I agree with much of what Lars-Axel Nordell said about plastics – that we need a ban on microplastics, that we need a fee or a tax on plastic bags and so on. In this way, you can continue and propose a ban on a variety of plastic articles or put a price on them. But I do not think that we will ever really get to grips with this plastic problem if we do not get a standardization of the different plastic groups that will be on the market. We have polyethylene, polypropylene, polycarbonate, polystyrene, polyvinyl chloride- PVC – and so on. There are so many different plastic combinations. This will be a nightmare for those who collect this plastic and then recycle it. I can't. All you can do is burn it. What I think we need is standardisation. We politicians need to put our foot down and, together with the industry, talk about which types of plastic should be on the market and not a variety of plastics. If you develop new plastic varieties, you have to prove that they are better than the varieties that exist. Then they can replace those who already exist. This must be done in order for us to have a rational use of plastic and to be able to reuse and recycle all the plastic that exists. That is something we in the Left Party think. This can be introduced separately in Sweden. Then we can move forward and implement it at EU level. I wonder if the Christian Democrats think this is a good proposal.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-951	Mr. Old President! When it comes to steering effects, we can do this in two ways, as we heard here. Firstly, it is a question of bans. It is often the case that the Left Party has a little preference for bans and to rule and stand. Secondly, it is a question of levying a tax on this, which is also a government. We Christian Democrats are more in favour of trying to steer in the right direction than we are in favour of banning. Precisely putting a price on this is very much in control. When it comes to the question of how to get to grips with this is the road you propose, Jens Holm, a road that I think we should look at. Standardisation means that one could agree. I think it is also a question of not just us politicians sitting and deciding. This must be done in dialogue with the industry and in finding out what is a problem. For everyone realizes what a problem this is when fish, for example, eat plastic bags because they think it is food. It is also about microplastics that fish ingest and that move on in the food chain. I think it is very good that you have a dialogue with the industry and that you can reason out and find ways to overcome this, because it sprawles as much as Jens Holm describes. I agree that it is difficult to get a grip on this when there is such an incredible amount of plastic products. But it is still a question of trying to have the environmentally friendly products that are biodegradable. It is above all in that direction that we should go.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-954	Mr. Old President! On the issue of taxes or bans, I said that I agree with the Christian Democrats' view of a fee on plastic bags. It is preferable to a ban. We may have to introduce a ban on plastic bags, too, at some point in the future. Some countries have done so; I was a few weeks ago in Bangladesh, which was the first in the world to introduce this. There are also other countries that have introduced it. However, that is where we feel the same. It is good that the Christian Democrats sympathise with our proposal to standardise the various types of plastics that exist. I certainly think that we should have a dialogue with the industry on this, but somewhere I think we need to get to a point where we politicians have to put our foot down and say what is going on. It will also conflict with trade secrets – companies may have patented different types of plastics and do not want to display the content of the plastics. Then I think we have to say that social interest and the environment – the survival of the planet, in short – are actually more important than business secrets. So I would like to drill on a little bit in this. How far are you in the Christian Democrats prepared to go? You want a dialogue with the industry, and that's good. But are you also prepared that it is we politicians who ultimately put down our foot and say what is at stake, for the sake of the environment?
i-94083c28b6fa802a-957	Mr. Old President! Jens Holm talks about trade secrets, and I realise that there have been problems in other contexts with companies that have not really wanted to declare content. For example, dental material has been a problem for many years; you have not wanted to tell us exactly what it contains. It will be in the future too, I think. So there will be difficulties, but if we are now to work for the survival of the planet, I still think it is necessary not to try to create conflict but to resolve this in dialogue. I have great hope that there is still a consensus that we will hand over this planet to our children and grandchildren in the same or better condition than when we once took over it. That way of thinking, I think, is necessary if we are to do this. Then we will see what methods are required for this in the future, as Jens Holm says. I don't see that.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-959	Mr. Old President! When faced with different types of environmental problems, solutions are often almost as mental as they are technical. We need to change the way we live together in different ways, and we need to change the way we view things. This applies not least to the view of waste, which we are now discussing. In fact, a lot has happened there. From being seen only as garbage that needs to be handled and put away, waste is increasingly regarded as valuable resources to be returned to production lines. Sweden is doing well in terms of recycling. We reach the targets set for recycling, apart from one, and some we reach by far. We have also, in many parts, left behind the time when waste was put on landfill – where, unfortunately, many countries are still present. But as in so many other areas, this is no reason to settle down. We should be proud but not satisfied. We still have a long way to go. It was therefore important that the so-called waste hierarchy was incorporated into the environmental code last year, in order to make it clear that we are looking at waste precisely as resources to be used. What its impact is is a little too early to say, but that is something we have reason to come back to when the government follows up on that decision. However, it is not enough to clarify the principles of legislation, Mr President-in-Office. Different instruments are also needed to contribute to the transition. Therefore, the Government set up a circular economy study that was presented at the end of March. In addition to the need for a transition to circular material and resource flows for sustainability reasons, it is noted that a transition is socio-economically rational and that there are good conditions for conversion. However, the study also describes a number of obstacles. For example, despite the economic rationality of creating circular flows, there are not always incentives to do so, as the benefits of a conversion do not always fall to those who need to bear the investment that makes the profit possible. Often, both the cost and the profit are shared between several different actors and in different stages of the chain. That is where the need for policy comes in – to change rules and force change or through economic instruments that make the transition more rational. The investigation proposes, among other things, a new tax deduction for repairs, used and renting goods. It also proposes new rules to facilitate car pools and more. These are interesting proposals, however, which we are not discussing here today. The study has been consulted, and we look forward to taking part in the consultation and continuing discussions on how to create a circular economy. This will require many initiatives at all levels. Mr. Old President! However, there are a number of proposals in the report to consider. Several of the proposals are fully in line with the work of the government. For example, there are several motions for Sweden to work with combating marine litter and pushing these issues internationally. That's exactly what the government does. Several initiatives have been taken at national level, and Sweden is actively working in both Helcom and OSPAR to protect the marine environment in the Baltic Sea and the North-East Atlantic. Sweden, together with Fiji, is hosting a major UN conference on the marine environment that will take place in New York in June, as part of the Swedish work on Agenda 2030, where marine littering will be a major and important part. There are also proposals for recycling of food waste and textiles and requirements for sorting them out. I think there is a very broad consensus that we should take such steps and make demands on the sorting out of textiles and food waste, but that must be done in a wider context. We need to take a concerted approach to the collection and sorting of recyclable resources. As has also been mentioned, several attempts have been made over a number of years and by various governments, but we have not been able to get all the way. Our view and starting point is the need for a clear citizen's perspective on this issue. It needs to be easy to do the right thing, and improvements are needed. Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog therefore initiated a series of round table discussions during the spring, bringing together representatives from the industry, the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils as well as the opposition. The results of these round tables are not finished, but hopefully we have come closer to a solution that can win broad support and thus be sustainable in the long term. However, we should currently await a decision on requirements for the sorting out of new materials, as a system is needed for the management of the collected resources. In addition, in the case of textiles, there is a functioning secondary market that is at risk of being disturbed if a decision is brought forward that is not well-designed. Mr. Old President! In this context, I would also like to point out a proposal which the government recently tabled and on which we in this House are scheduled to take a decision on 11 May. It is an extension of the authorisation on waste prevention. It does not sound very exciting, but it is simply a proposal which – if voted through in this House – will give the authorities more opportunity to provide regulations on, for example, packaging for waste prevention. It is therefore a question of strengthening step one in the waste hierarchy. For example, it is a question of reducing the use of plastic carrier bags, something that we need to achieve and about which there is an increasing degree of involvement. This also has a strong bearing on what has been touched on a great deal here today, even earlier in my speech, on marine litter. To sum up, we note that the government prioritises environmental issues in its work. This can be seen from the fact that the environmental budget has been substantially strengthened since the government took office, and it can be seen from the clear focus on the climate that exists in the government's policy. It was last noticed yesterday when the government presented in connection with the spring budget a broader range of indicators to measure the well-being of society than just bnp. This is also evident in waste and cycle policy. This can be seen when you read the report we are discussing here today. That is why, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-975	Mr. Old President! I have two questions for Sara Karlsson. I would like to start by saying that I agree with a lot of what you said, Sara Karlsson. I often agree with much of what Social Democrats and environmentalists say. Unfortunately, I think that one becomes more critical when one sees what environmentalists and social democrats actually do as ministers in the government. I simply do not think that there is enough going on. One question concerns the collection of packaging and newspapers. As I mentioned earlier, an investigation proposed the re-communisation of this responsibility. That proposal came five years ago, and there is, in principle, a united body of local politicians out there who say: Let the municipalities take full responsibility for household waste! As I understood our Minister for the Environment, her intention was to make such a proposal, but instead we got round tables, as Sara Karlsson himself mentioned. I wonder how these round tables can provide us with a rational and efficient collection of all household waste, in line with what was proposed by the investigation. My second question concerns the Left Party's proposal for more packaging to be covered by the pledge system. We see a marked increase in the rate of collection when something is backed up – it is above 90%. If I buy a soda at the store, the bottle is covered with a deposit, but if I buy a smoothie, the bottle is usually not covered with a deposit. I feel like this isn't connected. Is it not high time, Sara Karlsson, that we get a system where many more packages are covered with pledges, so that we can collect more?
i-94083c28b6fa802a-981	Mr. Old President! With regard to the issue of collection, it is no secret that the Social Democrats would have liked to see a municipalisation of the collection responsibility. We have had this view for several years, and we have also pushed for it in various ways. Jens Holm tells us that there is a united corps of local politicians. It is possible that this is the case, but here in Parliament we do not agree that this is the way we should choose, and we have to relate to what the majority of Parliament says. We need to put in place a system that is sustainable in the long term, and that requires broad support for the measures we take. The Minister for the Environment invited these round tables to raise various questions on the table. This applies both to how to better collect, which better responds to citizens' needs for simplicity and rationality, and to other issues that need to be addressed in the context of the further development of recycling and waste collection. As I said in my speech, we do not yet know what the outcome of these talks will be. But we have raised those questions on the table, and there is talk. Hopefully we can come up with a solution that reaches broad agreement. I think this is a responsibility that we together, as parties in the Swedish Parliament, need to take for those citizens who are asking for simpler solutions to get their waste recycled. As far as the deposit system is concerned, it is an issue connected with the major system issues. The panting system has been a good system, and more bottles have also been included on a voluntary basis in existing systems. It is possible that we can expand the systems more, but this must also be seen in the light of the need for broad, large solutions to how we collect our waste for recycling.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-986	Mr. Old President! I think these answers breathe good intentions but far too little delivery. Round table discussions in all honour, but if you have been in charge for two and a half years and as a minister has a concrete proposal on his table, I do not think it really proposes to launch round table discussions. We also know that the government could push this through. This is regulated by the Waste Regulation, as I understand it, and a regulation can be amended by the Government by a decision. I also think that the best thing is if we can have a broad majority, but we cannot always do that. We must put the environment and the rational collection of our waste first – nothing else. As far as pledges are concerned, I think it should be quite easy to agree. Just take one as obvious as that it is a pledge on the packaging when buying a soda, but if you buy another beverage product it is not a pledge on it. It's great that the industry sometimes, when you feel like it, takes voluntary initiatives. But it is clear that we must be able to put our foot down and say that all beverage packaging – and quite a few other packaging – should be covered by a deposit system, so that we get a much more efficient and rational collection.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-991	Mr. Old President! As I said in my previous line, I think it is important to emphasise that there must be a broad consensus if this type of system is to be changed. A broad consensus means that there is predictability, both for the citizens, who in many cases need to change their behaviour, and for the producers who need to design packaging and relate to this system. The collection is only part of the chain that this is all about. I do not think it is as simple as waving away the breadth of, or support for, such a decision and saying that one can only push it through without broad support. It is an issue that we obviously need to wear off for a while before we achieve a long-term sustainable change in the systems, but our absolute ambition is to achieve that. As far as the deposit system is concerned, I think it is worth noting that the industry has voluntarily included more bottles in the existing deposit system. This does not exclude that there may be a need to require more packaging to be included in the deposit system. However, I think that this is an issue that we need to come back to in the broader context, with the great solutions to how we collect waste.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-994	Mr. Old President! It may not make much sense to take this discussion forward, but we from the parties have been very clear on what our starting points are. The Left has been clear that municipalisation is the only solution, while we Liberals believe that producer responsibility has many roots. In the last line I heard Sara Karlsson say that the collection is only part of the chain. Actually, perhaps that is what we are discussing – that this has to be connected in some way. The question is: what is the starting point of the Social Democrats? Is it municipalisation, or can the Social Democrats consider working on producer responsibility and developing it? It is clear that, as I have said earlier in my speeches, shortcomings can be found, but to think that it is possible to organise the shortcomings by means of municipalisation is naïve. It works well for some municipalities in Sweden, and it works worse for others. That is the case with most things in the world. I fully agree with Sara Karlsson that broad support is important. The choice of municipalisation or producer responsibility is a fundamental principle that is laid down, and it must be maintained in the long term. It cannot shift from time to time; it must then apply. What do the Social Democrats think? What's your starting point?
i-94083c28b6fa802a-1000	Mr. Old President! I thought in itself that I was relatively clear in the line with Jens Holm that the Social Democrats' view is that we should publicise the collection responsibility. It would be rational and would make it easier from a citizen's perspective to sort and take care of their waste. The consumer's, the individual citizen's, perspective on how to handle their waste is the starting point. That is why we want to see the municipalisation of collection responsibility. It should not be interpreted as the same as phasing out producer responsibility. We obviously agree that the collection is a step. If the collection is municipalised, the rest must be solved, i.e. how the material is returned to the producers and to the production lines. There have been various types of proposals for models on how to solve these issues. This is the opinion of the Social Democrats. However, the Social Democrats do not currently have more than 50% of the votes, that is, we do not have a majority of the members of the Parliament, but we have to deal with cooperating with other parties. The Minister for the Environment – an environmental party – has invited us to the round table, but we Social Democrats have participated there. We think it is important to sit down with representatives of both the opposition and the industry to put the issues on the table and look at how we can find ways forward with the perspective of simplifying for citizens. That is our starting point.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-1005	Mr. Old President! I think we fully share the view of the citizens' perspective. I said it should be easy to do the right thing. We have heard descriptions from the speaker's chair that people are dragging garbage around the city to dirty and overcrowded containers. We should not have that system, and that question has no connection with who is responsible. The person who gets the responsibility should take responsibility, and there have been shortcomings. Even if it had been a municipal system, we would have found the same flaws. Let us agree that it is clear that it is the citizen's perspective that is the starting point. Nevertheless, I see a future in which property-related collection will become an important part of the systems. But there is no contradiction to producer responsibility. It must be possible to agree on something that works. What is important is to channel management according to the principle that it is the polluter who pays. The producer may take responsibility for the recovery of the product placed on the market. Perhaps we should not relate so much to what has been said and not said at the round table, but the discussion has become broad. I am grateful that Sara Karlsson has narrowed down that discussion somewhat.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-1009	Mr. Old President! I don't know if there's much to add. We will not solve the issue from the speaker's seats. I think it is promising that the starting point that Lars Tysklind also has in the discussion is precisely to make it easier for the individual citizen to do the right thing. I hope that is the attitude we can take together when we sit down to continue the discussions.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-1010	Mr. Old President! We are debating waste and cycles today. It could be seen as a piece of shit. It is also partly so. I thought about that yesterday when I introduced the spring budget in Karlstad. Me and my S-colleague Mejern Larsson had chosen to make our presentation at Sjöstadsverket in Karlstad. It's Karlstad's sewage treatment plant. We had chosen that place with care because we were going to talk about the government's major climate efforts. In the spring change budget, the government has contributed 500 million extra to the Climate Scene. This means that this year's funding will be increased from 700 million to 1.2 billion in order to provide more support for all the good climate projects initiated by municipalities, regions and companies. These are measures that will reduce our climate emissions in Sweden. Climate change has been a success, and the search has flowed in. In Värmland, 26 projects have so far received a total of 26 million in state aid. It covers everything from the production of environmental rubber through recycling to charging poles and biogas pumps throughout Värmland. Today there is only one biogas station in Värmland. It is located on Våxnäs in Karlstad, and the vehicle gas you can refuel there comes from Sjöstadsverket – or, if we are going to go to the source, from Karlstad residents' toilets. Thanks to the predecessor of Klimmatklivet – Klimp, which the alliance government removed – the first and only biogas upgrading plant for vehicle gas was inaugurated in Sjöstad in 2010. Soon we will have more biogas stations in Värmland, and hopefully we will also have more producers of biogas. I know, among other things, an application that is now lodged with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. It comes from Karlstads Energi and some farmers in Väse who want to build a plant where manure and residues from agriculture together with food waste will be digested into biogas. The product that remains when you have digested and obtained biogas and vehicle gas can be returned to the soil as an excellent nutrition. It is important and necessary to close the loops and ensure that waste can become a resource and something we can use. Mr. Old President! According to the waste hierarchy, which our government has worked into the environmental code, the first step in the waste stairway is to minimize the amount of waste, i.e. to consume more sustainable and repair things instead of discarding them and buying new ones. Here the government has taken many good initiatives. VAT has been reduced on repairs of bicycles, shoes and clothing. A rope deduction has been introduced for those who hire a repairman who comes home and cooks freezers, fridges and computers. The government-appointed report on the circular economy, which Sara Karlsson talked about earlier, left her report in March with the long and comprehensive name From value chain to value cycle – and Sweden gets a more circular economy. There is another series of good proposals that I hope will soon be put on the table of Parliament. Among other things, they are about increasing the availability of car pools. Our privately owned cars are used on average only a few percent of the hours of the day. The rest of the time they stand still and take place. It is also a question of introducing a hyber credit to encourage households to repair, rent and resell consumer products. And there are a number of other proposals in the report to make it easier for households to prevent the generation of waste. Mr. Old President! As I said, it is important that waste is easily prevented, for example by ensuring that food is placed in the stomach instead of in the garbage bag. Today we know that perhaps as much as a third of the food we buy ends up in the garbage can. The UN's global goal for reduced food waste, which is also a target for Sweden, is to halve that figure by 2030. In Sweden, the waste takes place mainly in shops and homes. In other parts of the world a lot of food is destroyed even before it comes to the shops. Reducing food waste at all stages is an important measure to increase food security and security worldwide. But, Mr. Old President, there are, of course, and always will be, things in our homes that we have to get rid of. And then we come to the other steps in the garbage stairway. First, we have what is reused, what we at best drive to the second-hand shops or leave in their containers. Then there is what can be recycled: the paper, the glass, the metal and the plastic. And then there's the food waste and the combustible. We must be able to sort this out and give it up in an easy way. This has been discussed earlier in this debate, and I must also agree that, of course, the easiest way is to be able to leave it in different barrels or in different coloured bags outside the villa or in the garbage room of multi-family houses, instead of packing away with its bags to littery recycling sites with full containers. Or it could be like in my case-- I live in the country and have to get in the car and drive long distances to get rid of my junk. We have debated this earlier in Parliament. The government – the Environmental Party and the Social Democrats – and also the Left Party wanted to give the municipalities a collective responsibility for the collection, instead of what should today be shared between different actors. We are talking about collection responsibility; for me this is something other than producer responsibility. The shared responsibility we have today, at least in my municipality and in many other municipalities, has led to a very complicated and difficult to understand waste management and also to less sorted waste. Unfortunately, however, we do not have a majority in Parliament for this. I can only regret that; the Green Party believes that the best thing would have been if we had put the collection responsibility on the municipalities. At the same time, I am grateful that the Minister for the Environment has now taken a turn on this issue and that there are ongoing talks on a solution. Finally, I would like to express the hope that these talks will lead to something that will make it easier for all households and will also lead to more recycling and less burning. I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all motions.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-1024	Mr. Old President! I have a question for the Green Party. I was earlier today at a seminar on biogas, which Energigas arranged. It found that the Danes have both investment aid and tax exemption. This means that the future of biogas in Sweden is actually threatened. Several plants do not happen, for example, Sysav. Others have financial problems, such as the one outside Trelleborg, if you stay at home with me. Since I am a great friend of biogas, I was very concerned today. The industry, which was there, is asking for a long-term approach, but also wants something to be done about it, for example that it is being brought to the attention of the European Union; it wonders how this can continue. I just want to hear how the Green Party views this. Biogas also increases our level of supply. So we can support ourselves if we are to be suspended in the event of unrest. So I want to hear how the Green Party views this issue. The future of biogas is now safe, now that restaurants and other things are starting to join.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-1027	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Gunilla Nordgren, for raising this very important issue. This is something that the Green Party is well aware of and sees as a major problem. I was brought to the attention a few months ago. I then found out that from having had a shortage of biogas in Sweden so that we in Karlstad had to mix in natural gas when we drive the biogas buses because there has not been biogas to get hold of, now suddenly we have a situation where we import biogas, which is cheaper than the one we produce ourselves. This is because, as Gunilla Nordgren says, Germany, Denmark and the Netherlands have strong investment aid. This biogas can then also end up in Sweden and get tax exemptions, which we have here. So there will be double support for that biogas, while also, especially in Denmark, they have economies of scale with the large pig farms, where you can produce a lot of biogas. I believe that something needs to be done about this. I know that there are a lot of suggestions as to what can be done that are discussed back and forth. I am also interested in whether Gunilla Nordgren has any suggestions that can be incorporated into that discussion. As I said today, there is investment aid through the Climate Centre, and we have methane reduction aid for farmers producing biogas. This is support that could be turned on, but I can imagine that other measures are also needed to tackle this situation and promote Swedish biogas production. We need all the biogas we can produce.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-1031	Mr. Old President! After all, the Green Party is in the government, so my question is what the Minister is doing when it comes to controlling from a European point of view. That does not make sense. Denmark has economies of scale, but we have a lot of agriculture and residues in Skåne as well. Had these plants been fully operational, there would have been even more biogas. I'll be happy to make suggestions. But what I'm a little worried about is that the secondary market for biogas cars has also disappeared completely, because those cars disappear to Germany, where this is subsidised. It is 50 or 40 per cent cheaper to refuel with biogas there; here it may differ 10 per cent. Then not so much more cars develop, so this is very important. Here again we have the same objective – the question is just how to get there, as I said in my previous speech.
i-94083c28b6fa802a-1034	Mr. Old President! This is also a problem that was discussed and that we thought about when we would develop our bonus – the Malus system for purchasing new cars. How do we design this support so that we do not get a situation where we leave state aid for a biogas car that quite quickly disappears abroad? However, I believe that, with the support that will now exist for a long time, this can still be prevented, as far as possible. But this must also be in line with the EU acquis, and I have the same reasoning as I understand that Gunilla Nordgren has: how does it work for Holland, Denmark and Germany to reconcile this with EU rules so that they can do as they do now? I hope there can be further steps to get to grips with this, but it is also about how we manage public transport. Another problem is that the public transport authorities move from biogas-powered vehicles to environmental diesel vehicles. That's not good. Getting there has not been a political issue; it has been a recommendation from something that has not turned out well. I think this is also important. If we get more and more heavy traffic going on biogas, I think there will be a market for both imported biogas and a large amount of biogas produced in Sweden. We have very good opportunities to produce biogas, both from agriculture and from more and more food waste that we now sort.
