i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-0	Madam President, I would like We shall deal with the FiU22 report by the Committee on Finance. On the one hand, this is a motion report which deals with some 60 requests for motion and, on the other hand, we are dealing with a committee initiative. I had intended to highlight a few of the issues dealt with in the report. I request the approval of reservation 6. The corresponding previous reports have been entitled 'Banking and Insurance'. Nowadays the name is Financial stability and financial market issues. This may seem like a small change, but it's very important. The report has a slightly different focus and a slightly different perspective. I note that Members of Parliament have also recognised the importance of financial stability. It is not least noticeable how the nature of the exercises that are handled has changed over time. An introduction to the new direction of this report is a committee initiative. We have an announcement to the government about the need for a new regular letter on the work of the IMF and other international financial institutions on financial and monetary stability issues. This is something that has been around for a few years. There is usually every two years a letter from the government that addresses the activities of the international institutions. However, following a committee initiative by the Foreign Affairs Committee, the government has announced that there will be a slightly different focus on this letter. We in the Committee on Finance are a little concerned about the new approach. We believe that there is a need to continue to report on the work carried out by the international institutions. Of course, this is important, as everyone understands. If you didn't understand it before, you'd understand it after the financial crisis. It is important to have good supervision and supervision of financial stability, especially in the era of globalisation, as we are becoming increasingly influenced and dependent on what is happening in our world. Sweden is perhaps one of the countries most affected when something happens elsewhere, given how integrated and dependent we are with and on our world around us. Sweden has done quite a lot of work and quite important activities in, for example, the IMF, where we also have quite a lot of commitments to be involved in supporting when there is a need for financial support for countries that have been in trouble. It is the task of the IMF to act as an aid and to provide expertise to address the problems that may sometimes arise. However, it is also important that the IMF and others monitor and analyse the possible risks inherent in the financial system. That is why we in the committee believe – and it is a united committee behind the initiative – that it is important for the government to report regularly on its activities in these international institutions. That was one question. I had not intended to go into so much of the financial risks that exist today in our surrounding world from a Swedish perspective. Everyone knows them well. Time does not allow us to immerse ourselves in it. I just want to say that we see the need for us to continue to monitor the issue of financial stability and how important it is for the functioning of the national economy and for us not to encounter major imbalances in the system. The second question is a little related to the first one. In some way, it is perhaps a bit contradictory too. We have all understood the need to tighten up rules, increase supervision and increase transparency in the financial system. But this has also meant that there has been a lot of regulation. It does in some way support the systemically important banks. The big banks that manage to handle the big regulations get, so to speak, a little competitive advantage through their size. On the one hand, regulation seeks to prevent new problems from arising; on the other hand, competition is somehow eliminated, at least on the margins. This is a problem. There must be some balance in this. We believe that there is reason to give a commission to Finansinspektionen to analyse and investigate how to facilitate increased competition in the financial market – hence reservation 6. Increased competition could possibly have the positive effect of contributing to disruptions to financial market stability, given that risks are being spread more widely and that the market may be better functioning in general. In addition, I can add as a curiosity that at the last hearing on the Riksbank's monetary policy, I noted that the Governor of the Riksbank said that the commercial banks have become mortgage banks. For this reason alone, it would be interesting to ensure that competition in the credit market increases in order to facilitate business growth and ensure that companies have the opportunity to obtain credit. That is why, as I said, I would like to support reservation 6.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-9	Madam President, I would like Journalist Andreas Cervenka writes in his book What Does a Bank Do? that financial stability is a finer rewrite because there is money in the ATMs, that the stock exchange is open and that the mood of chaos shines with its absence in the streets and squares. Although it concerns very day-to-day issues such as the fact that there is money in the ATM and that there is no chaos in the economy, this report on financial stability is one of the more interesting of the Committee on Finance. The report contains opinions from a number of expert bodies such as the IMF, the Riksbank, Finansinspektionen and the Financial Stability Council. The report gives a good picture of the risks faced by Sweden and the policy which these bodies believe Sweden should pursue. Obviously, they are all concerned about household indebtedness, which has grown very strongly over the last ten years. Nevertheless, the policy has often cowardised and has not put in very strong measures to change developments. But for households to grow indebtedness, someone has to lend the money, and banks do so as never before. The banks' lack of collateral for their loans has in one way or another been the cause of the financial crises we have seen throughout history, most recently in 2007-2008. That is why the political discussion on how banks can be required on greater responsibility is so important. B anchors are unfortunately many times like any company with shareholders. They want to make as much profit as possible as quickly as possible, despite the fact that in the case of banks they are very important to society. That is why, if the banks fall, the state promises ultimately to save the banks so that our financial stability will not be damaged. That is why the Left Party, in cooperation with the government, now wants to increase the resolution fees for the banks. It is a proposal which we hope the bourgeois parties will also see the benefits of and support. It is also important that banks have a risk-weighted capital that is consistent with the risks taken by banks, but also that the banks have a strong leverage ratio so that the bank is well equipped and has its own resources on the day when opportunities in the loan market fall. The Left Party wants to move on to reduce the risk of banks falling. The Swedish banking system is large in relation to the Swedish economy and is completely dominated by four large banks. If any of these banks encounter problems, confidence in the entire financial system could be called into question, which in turn could have serious consequences for the real economy. Large banks' dependence on short-term market funding, largely from abroad, increases the vulnerability of the financial system. There is insufficient competition in the banking market. That is why we in the Left Party believe that a parliamentary composite banking structure inquiry should be set up to study the structures of the Swedish banking sector more closely and propose improvements. A major problem today is that banks' services to customers, such as savings and loans, are not separated from the banks' more risky investment activities, i.e. speculative activities. In the EU there have been proposals for bank sharing, but they have been quickly silenced and hidden away. One can imagine that it is the extensive lobbying of the banks that is behind it. A banking law would prevent taxpayers' money from being put at risk for what cannot be regarded as socially beneficial banking. Therefore, a banking structure inquiry should be entrusted with the development of a banking division law separating traditional banking activities from investment activities. If we take Nordea as an example, its operations in the Nordic and Baltic countries together comprise 161 per cent of Sweden's entire economy measured in bnp. We cannot spread responsibility for Nordea's risks to our neighbours, but it rests entirely on us here in Sweden. It is not just socialism because it is proposed that the savings accounts of small savers and stockholders' stock portfolios should not be in the same banking company. It is a healthy economy if we as taxpayers do not have to save those banks that make huge profits by taking huge risks with us others as security and guarantee on the day we are forced to save them. The State and its various authorities take a major responsibility to ensure financial stability. As the State takes on high risks and potentially high costs to preserve financial stability, it would be logical for the State to also increase its ownership in the banking market. Increased state ownership would both increase financial stability and increase competition for the benefit of consumers. Therefore, a banking structure study should also be tasked with developing proposals on how to increase government ownership in the banking sector. A well-functioning mortgage market is central to household finances. Despite the reforms in recent years, banks have a major information advantage vis-à-vis their customers when negotiating interest rates on mortgages. A bank structure study should therefore make proposals on how banks should report their borrowing costs for residential loans in a uniform manner in order to facilitate consumer negotiation with the banks. The ability of customers in a market to compare different products with each other is central to a well-functioning market. However, there are largely shortcomings in this respect in the banking market. Several studies have shown that banking customers generally have little knowledge of the cost of their banking services. For this reason, the bank structure inquiry should produce proposals for requirements for banks for annual cost aggregation that inform customers of how much they have paid in fees to the bank. Such an overview shall clearly describe the interest rates received or paid by the customer during the year. Madam President, I would like Some people today have enormous distances to withdraw cash. For those living in Vittangi, Hakkas and Fredrika, the distance to the nearest ATM is more than 50 kilometres. In Svappavaara there is a state-owned mine but no ATM. It's 20 miles away. In Vidsel, called the rocket village, the military presence is great. The Swedish Armed Forces have a facility there to test rockets and pilot drones. But no ATM has the villagers since last year. There are 117 000 people who have more than 20 miles to withdraw cash, of whom 36 000 are older than 65. Somewhere between 1 and 11⁄2 million people are affected by problems with payment services and would benefit from easier access to basic payment services. According to county administrative boards, those who experience the most problems with payment services are associations, disabled, elderly, newly arrived and entrepreneurs in the countryside and in the archipelago. According to the Riksbank, more than 20 per cent of all payments are still made with cash. It is 87% of all Swedish people who use cash at least once a month, and 20% do not use internet banking. The fact that it is difficult to reach basic payment services is no wonder when we see what the business looks like. The number of ATMs in 2011 – 2015 has decreased by nearly 500. Cash handlers have declined significantly since 2011 and have gone from 1 400 to 700, i.e. a halving. In addition, 150 bank accounts have been closed. Access to cash has become a difference between city and country. For many, access to cash is important in order to control their finances. Others do not want cards for privacy reasons, and yet others have problems with technology. Some stores don't take cards because it's expensive. For this reason, banks should be required by law to have some cash handling. The ownership of large banks makes it impossible for new players to establish banking services in Sweden without very high costs. When the big banks shut down the rural bank accounts, this has also meant that the ATM has disappeared. The government's proposal for a payment account directive is inadequate and is based on an incorrect analysis and proposals that do not make a significant difference for citizens. The government should therefore investigate whether major banks should be required to maintain ATMs in rural areas. Madam President, I would like One day there was a letter to Lyran in Lyran from the state bank SBAB that the association was a customer of. The letter said: Our mission and responsibility is to provide customers with the best service while meeting the owner's profitability requirements. It also said: We will focus our lending in the future on expanding regions around our offices in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö, as well as major growth and higher education locations in southern Sweden. A little further down in the letter they write: We write to you because in the future we will not have the opportunity to offer the same terms as before, nor the same level of service. SBAB is a state bank. That means we all own the bank together. This means that those who live in Lyran in Lyran are not only customers of SBAB but also SBAB's owners. Then it should also be reasonable for the bank not to be able to decide for itself who it should provide service to, but to provide good service to all owners regardless of where in the country they live. The mandate of SBAB as a public bank in a private market needs to be clarified. Instead of phasing out its lending to large parts of the country, SBAB should complement the market's lack of lending in rural areas. As a market-supplementing bank, SBAB should support new construction in rural areas by means of loan models that allow new building even where the market price is low. The government should therefore amend the ownership directives in such a way that SBAB will maintain good service and good conditions throughout the country and thereby become a society-friendly company. This proposal is in line with the alternative models for financing increased rural construction presented by the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development in its final report in January 2017. Another factor is that the circumstances surrounding running companies vary greatly depending on where in Sweden you operate. SBAB should be tasked with reviewing how to facilitate financing for rural businesses. In addition, by working with product development, SBAB could in a concrete way increase funding opportunities for small and start-ups in rural areas. Therefore, SBAB should also be actively tasked with product development for SMEs in order to complement the market. The big banks are currently sour because they get an increased resolution fee and have to contribute more to the costs of the state to ensure financial stability. Nordea's CEO Koskull von Koskull has gone the farthest. He's threatened to move the bank's headquarters. At the same time, the big banks are making billions of profits. The four major banks earned SEK 103 billion last year and distributed nearly SEK 60 billion to the shareholders. In Nordea's case, 25 billion of the 40 billion profit was distributed. It is time for Koskull von Koskull and the other bankers to stop crying and instead contribute to our common society where we all, and not just the bankers, will be winners. Madam President, I would like The Left Party has four reservations, but for time winning I only agree to reservation 5.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-37	Madam President, I would like The report we are now discussing, as has already been mentioned here, has previously been a purely exercise report which has raised banking and financial market issues and some other small and good things in this area. But the main issue has been banking and financial market issues. The committee now has the ambition to consider issues relating to financial stability. It is not that the committee has not discussed this before, but we do so regularly. But this should have happened during the committee's ongoing work and in the open hearings with the Riksbank. Madam President, I would like I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all reservations. Madam President, I would like Financial stability is simply about how the financial system can maintain its functioning and be resilient to disturbances. That's easy to say. We know from experience that it is very important that there are no disruptions in the financial system either nationally or internationally. We know that there are always risks that Swedish banks and financial market companies are more or less seriously affected by international financial crises. The latest experience is from 2008, when Lehman Brothers went bankrupt. However, we did not escape a purely internal financial crisis in Iceland a few years ago. This meant that the Swedish financial system also had problems. In several cases, Swedish banks and financial market companies experienced problems due to extensive international activities. Madam President, I would like The committee considers it important to monitor and monitor the assessments of financial stability in Sweden and internationally. There are a number of bodies that review financial stability in Sweden. It is primarily the Government, which makes its own assessments, the Financial Stability Council, the Riksbank and Finansinspektionen. Furthermore, the IMF also conducts regular reviews of financial stability in Sweden. All these bodies should primarily assess how the Swedish financial system works but also look at how it looks internationally in relation to Sweden. In all material respects, all these bodies agree that the Swedish financial system works well but that there are also vulnerabilities and risks. At global level, these are risks linked to weak growth, economic and political uncertainty and weaknesses in the European banking system. We know that there are major problems at the moment in the Italian banking system, among other things, and we do not really know how it will go there. In Sweden, the main issue is that the financial system is large and interconnected and exposed to risks arising from high household indebtedness. Madam President, I would like The committee considers it important that the government and the relevant authorities continue to analyse thoroughly the risks to financial stability, not least in relation to household indebtedness, and is prepared to take further action if necessary. The Government has for some years submitted a letter every two years on the activities of the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank Group and the Regional Development and Investment Banks. The letter has been dealt with by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and we have been given the floor by the Committee on Finance. However, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has now produced a report saying that they want this to be more about the work of multilateral development organisations in relation to the Millennium Goals and Agenda 30. The Committee on Finance therefore proposes that the Riksdag announce to the Government that it regularly report to the Riksdag the work of the IMF and other international financial institutions on issues related to financial and monetary stability. Under the heading Financial stability, a number of motions from the general exercise period have been received. I choose to comment briefly on the various aspects. First of all, there are three motions dealing with issues of capital adequacy and financial stability. In terms of capital adequacy and risk management, a broad range of work is under way both in the government and in various authorities on this particular subject. In addition, ongoing work is ongoing within the EU. Capital adequacy has also gradually increased since the international financial crisis. As regards the foreign exchange reserve levy, an investigation has reviewed this and suggested that it should be borne by the banks. The Riksdag has issued an announcement to the Government on this matter, and the Government has announced that it will submit a preliminary proposal in autumn 2017. When it comes to the financial system contributing to sustainable development, the Government has stated in the budget proposal that it intends to develop indicators that can be reported on an ongoing basis and highlight the risks of a sustainable financial market. Madam President, I would like Under the heading Macroprudential supervision and questions about household indebtedness, there are a number of motions that macroprudential supervision should be reviewed, household indebtedness, guarantee commitments, government youth loans and that financial institutions offering credit should be under the supervision of Finansinspektionen. In the case of over-indebtedness by households, the following has been done in relative proximity: on the one hand, a credit amortisation requirement has been introduced and, on the other hand, a new law has been adopted in November to strengthen consumer protection in the mortgage market. Among other things, more extensive information and reflection time are required before the consumer is obliged to consider a mortgage offer. However, it should be stressed in this context that several authorities, political parties and certain economists believe that this is not enough but that further action must be taken. Some of the points made are the introduction of a debt-to-GDP ceiling, i.e. that you cannot borrow more than a certain part of your annual income. It has also been discussed to remove interest rebates and to introduce certain taxes. For example, the property tax is usually popular with economists. Discussions are ongoing on several levels, and the Committee on Finance is looking with great interest at what these discussions will result in. It should be noted that the investigation that the Government has just set up on whether the Riksbank will review the management of financial stability. The issue of government youth loans cannot be seen by the committee as the financial market already has this task. Madam President, I would like Under the heading of the EU Banking Union and Banking Structures, the committee would like to point out that the ongoing EU process on a Single Banking Union is now coming to an end. The Banking Union is mandatory for EMU countries and partly for other EU countries, such as Sweden. We have implemented what was mandatory, namely the so-called resolution mechanism and the deposit guarantee. Furthermore, Sweden has taken part in the discussion on the Banking Union and if one day we would like to go into it. No demands for us to participate in the Union have been made in the past either in the Committee on Finance or in the EU Board, which deals with the issues on an ongoing basis. It is therefore a little surprising that this demand is coming now. With regard to the demand for a banking structure inquiry, it is the committee's view that, on most issues that are being exercised, there is ongoing work in the government or in the EU. The issue of increased ownership is not relevant. The State already owns a bank and it is difficult to justify additional state ownership. Madam President, I would like On financial market issues, a large number of motions under the heading Cash Management and Payment Services address the issue of the obligation to hold cash services and payment services. There is also a motion about id-jackings. From the point of view of cash management has been dealt with in a number of reports from previous years. It should be noted that the decline in cash in Sweden has gone significantly faster than in comparable countries. However, it should be stressed that there are still groups that rely on cash, such as the group that is sometimes referred to as older people, some disabled people and small businesses with small daycrows. I would like to emphasise that this is not about small businesses in rural areas, but about small businesses in general. If you think something else, I think you should go out to the suburbs of Stockholm or some other big city, because then you will meet a number of small businessmen who feel that they have no opportunity to get rid of their diaries. So the committee cannot agree with the fact that this is a problem that is exclusively for rural areas. The so-called payment account bill has also recently been submitted to the Riksdag. It regulates everyone's right to receive and make payments. However, it does not regulate cash handling. In addition, the State Rural Committee has argued that it is the responsibility of the market through banks and other financial institutions to provide payment services to citizens including the possibility of withdrawing and depositing cash. The report is currently being referred. Furthermore, as mentioned above, the Government has set up a Riksbank inquiry. This has been commissioned to investigate the issue of cash handling. It should also take into account different forms of new technological innovations in order to obtain both payment and payment services. If this were in a party context, it could be said that the Left Party motion has been answered, because it is already in the process of doing so. Madam President, I would like Under the heading Competition and transparency in the financial market there are a number of motions that address the issue of competition, transparency and better local presence of banks. The committee notes that most of the regulation of the financial market is contained in a number of different regulations in the EU. The committee readily admits that the financial market regulation is very comprehensive. I have been a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs in the past, and if I am going to be a little bit shrewd, I can say that when all the other authorities and departments worked feverishly to bring down the regulatory burden on companies, it sometimes increased, and that was almost exclusively because of the financial market regulations. However, this must also be seen in relation to the major international financial crisis. However, there is reason to have a review at EU level. This is also being done in the context of the Capital Markets Union, which is currently reviewing the regulatory framework to find out if so many rules are needed. With regard to the motion for increased local presence, the committee is happy to agree with what is being said. However, the problem is that the financial market, like other markets, cannot reasonably be ordered to have an increased local presence. The issue of maintaining the same bank account number has been dealt with at EU level, where a number of problems have to be resolved. In the case of savings banks, the government is reviewing the possibility for them to raise external capital. Madam President, I would like Under the heading "Regulatory framework and supervision in the field of financial markets" there are three motions: one on money laundering, one on abuse of business insurance and one on fund companies. With regard to money laundering, a new proposal has recently been submitted to tighten up the rules. It will also improve supervision. With regard to the issue of life insurance and fund companies, it has been instructed the Pensions Authority to look at this and propose measures. Under the heading Invoice fraud and debt collection there are two motions submitted for stronger control of debt collection operations and stricter requirements for permit assessment in the fight against fraud invoices. The committee notes that problems with fake invoices and fraudulent debt collection are currently being prepared within the Government Office. Madam President, I would like Finally, this report contains three motions on the financial market company SBAB. The first raises the issue of state presence throughout the country, in particular what SBAB can do to finance housing and product development for small and medium-sized enterprises, mainly in rural areas. There are also two motions to sell the state's holding in SBAB. In previous reports, the government has stated that SBAB has no explicit social mission. Whatever the social mission, SBAB must act in a competitive market and on market conditions. The State Rural Committee has touched on an alternative model for financing increased construction and renovation of rural housing. SBAB would be entrusted with the provision of the State loans. From a financial market perspective, such a measure may be called into question as it could, inter alia, distort competition in the financial market. Finally, as regards the sale of SBAB's State ownership, this company is not listed on the list drawn up by the Reinfeldt Government during its eight years of government.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-71	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats would like to sound angry at the banks for removing cash for the citizens, but no political decision is made. Börje Vestlund's colleague in the Tax Committee, Peter Persson, who will soon be coming up here to the speaker's chair, has said, among other things, that all banks should receive cash. But doing something is much worse for the Social Democrats. Time and again, the Left Party has raised the issue of access to cash. We have done so during the time of the bourgeois government, and we have done so during the time of the Social Democratic-led government. But no other party has ever joined up with our demands, and it is difficult to understand why. There are many problems with lack of cash management. Many entrepreneurs are adversely affected and have witnessed problems in getting rid of diaries. They find it difficult to get change, are forced to go very far in order to be able to carry out the business of banking services with cash and feel that their business is threatened because of the lack of cash. Many are the associations that fund themselves in rural areas through lotteries, sales, bingo, cafés, etc. and who find it difficult to deposit the money they earn in their accounts. If they succeed in doing so, they'll have to pay big fees to the bank to do so. It is an absurd system in which the non-profits work to strengthen the association's finances. People who want to support the association contribute financially to the association's activities, and then the banks take a large part of the money. Banks' responsibility for society does not seem very great. The question is: why do the Social Democrats not want to do anything about this? Why do you keep hiding in investigations, as in the previous payment account inquiry and now in the Riksbank investigation? How long can the Social Democrats really hide in an investigation?
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-76	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Håkan Svenneling! I do not really know what to say, because I think we are quite in agreement on the problem description of the lack of cash in society. We fully agree on that part. I did not mention associations specifically, but once again, it is not about associations in rural areas, but it is associations that have problems with this in general. I would like to emphasise that. But now the problem is that there is a proposal from the Left Party that we should investigate whether the banks should be required to handle cash. Such an investigation has almost already been set up. Håkan Svenneling always says: It does not have that task. But that answer exists, and when you realized that you hadn't investigated this, you added it to the Riksbank investigation. I do not understand what the Left Party really means. We fully agree on these issues. I do not quite understand the argument in this context.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-79	Madam President, I would like We agree on the description of it, Börje Vestlund. However, we do not agree on whether or not the Riksdag should take any action. The discussion is constantly in a position where we propose that legislation should be brought forward, as in Norway, and that banks should provide cash to the extent required by customers. You're investigating and investigating. As soon as we say something needs to be done, you present a new investigation where you have raised the issue a little alongside. Most recently, it was the study on payment services, which was based on a directive from the EU on ensuring basic services for citizens. It was said that the investigation would be happy to look at cash. But it's not looking at cash. In principle, it is stated – now I'm a little upset – that these problems will solve themselves when the technology takes over and when those who don't understand the technology, those who are too old, die. Then we will be able to have a society without cash. The investigation did not solve the problem at all. It will then be blocked into a new investigation, this time about the Sveriges Riksbank Act. It can be said to be a constitution for how the Riksbank's activities are to be conducted. However, the role of the banks should not be investigated without the role of the Riksbank. It is printing money, in a system where the Riksbank is not responsible for the cash. There's nothing about the banks. It only says that the investigation should look at the Riksbank's responsibility for cash supply. It's like looking at one side of the plane, but not at the other. The problem has not been the Riksbank. It has a great responsibility and a role to play in the future. And Sverigesbankslagar we will not investigate hips as happy. It should be done with a long perspective, 20 – 30 years ahead. It is the banks that are not doing their job. Then we must ask ourselves whether we should go in the same direction as Norway, for example. There are legal requirements for banks that have offices and ATMs to ensure that customers have access to cash.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-85	Madam President, I would like There is one thing that I and Håkan Svennelin g fully agree on: I find it difficult to see the reason why the banks are going to close the ATMs. There's no reason for that. After all, the banks have said that they should have ATMs. They have said that they want it and have set up a joint venture for it. I find it hard to see why they should cut back on it. In this respect, I think something can be done through the Financial Supervisory Authority. However, Håkan Svenneling must have read these directives very carelessly. It is quite clear how the cash handling should be solved. The same thing is being proposed, namely to put it in an investigation. What Håkan Svenneling criticizes us for, that we put it in an investigation, he also wants to do, but in another investigation. That is a line of reasoning that I cannot reconcile. When it comes to implementing regulations in Sweden it never usually works very well to transfer another country's regulations. It hasn't worked so far. Sometimes you've tried. Then you've got to file a little bit on it afterwards. So I think it's stupid just to look at Norway. When Håkan Svenneling talks about banks, he also means the four major banks. The savings banks usually have cash handling almost everywhere. Why would the niche banks get away? Why shouldn't they have that responsibility? Why should not other financial institutions engaged in such activities, such as the large exchange offices, have the same obligation? I find it hard to understand that argument. Why do you only talk about the four big banks, even though I know they're the biggest enemies of the Left Party?
i-8f5VQ1GrKHnQAiBqCXqWDt	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1 and reservation 8 in the Committee on Finance's report 22. The work on financial stability is of central importance for the Swedish economy as a whole. It aims to secure the payment system, counter risks in the banking system and create the conditions for safe and long-term access to finance. If work on these functions fails, important social functions risk being seriously damaged. This could lead to very far-reaching consequences, both economic and social, with the risk of major damage to the whole social machinery. It is therefore to be welcomed that the issue of financial stability is now being raised and given greater scope in the debate, including through the change of direction in the report. The efforts to secure financial stability are somewhat different in different countries. In Sweden, we have a shared responsibility between the government, in the form of the Ministry of Finance, and the three authorities Finansinspektionen, the Riksbank and the National Debt Office. However, it has been shown that the regulatory framework governing how the various actors should and can act is particularly flawed. There are a number of uncertainties in the division of responsibilities between the three authorities with regard to macroprudential policy. This has been manifested in various investigations and reports in recent years, but also in serious disagreements between different authorities. We have therefore raised the issue in a motion on the organisation of work on financial stability. I will comment mainly on that motion and that proposal. The lack of a common understanding of reality, directional decisions and what measures may be appropriate and possible in a given situation risks undermining the credibility of the state's efforts. We saw a clear example of how crazy it can be when dealing with the introduction of the amortisation requirement. There was a clash between Finansinspektionen, the government and court decisions, which undermined the authority's decision-making competence. This created negative attention to our work with financial stability far beyond Sweden's borders. In early 2016, Finansinspektionen and the Riksbank came together in a public exchange of views on an important part of macroprudential supervision of the financial market. I will not sprinkle salt in the wounds by reproducing details in the current conversation, but this is an important example of the fact that the organisation of work on financial stability in Sweden has a tangible potential for improvement. This whole episode helped undermine the work of financial stability rather than building stability. It focuses on how the authorities work but also on what supervisory activities and measures the respective authorities have the opportunity to act with. No one who has an insight into the work of financial stability can be in ignorance of the state of affairs. Madam President, I would like Most actors in the financial market point to the need for the responsible authorities to have a common understanding and to act in a coordinated manner in a given situation, in order to be effective in addressing shortcomings in the financial system. Even the government writes on its website that, both in the preventive work for financial stability and in the event of a financial crisis, the interaction between the authorities is important. On the other hand, very little is being done to solve the problem. At the same time, we know that the interaction between the authorities does not always work optimally, as I described earlier. This is confirmed by the investigators Goodfriend and King in their evaluation of the Riksbank's monetary policy. It is noted that the management system is vague and that the division of responsibilities is unclear. The same result comes a RUT investigation, which we initiated in 2016. It points to the problems of a very unclear division of responsibilities between the authorities, but also to the major shortcomings in the organisation of work on financial stability. The IMF also points to these shortcomings in its report on financial stability. That the issue is important and central to the outcome, FSPOS, the private-public collaboration of the financial sector, is the result of its declaration on crisis communication, which points to the importance of providing a coherent picture of the situation and the direction of action decided. You write: However, the financial system relies to a greater extent on trust. The stability of the system itself is based on trust, which means that failed communication can be the very cause of social disruption. At the same time, successful communication can be crucial to the solution. ..................................................... The agreement must also be anchored before the crisis is a fact – in the course of the crisis it is too late. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like So there is no lack of evidence and facts to draw the conclusions that we have presented in the exercise that is the basis of our reservation No 1. The government, too, should have paid attention and had already corrected the situation, but unfortunately the momentum has not run out in this regard. It is therefore important that the Riksdag points out the direction of travel and gives the Government the necessary instructions for it to be able to take relevant measures. The basis for work on financial stability is laid in government assessments of the factors affecting financial stability. These are presented in financial stability reports a couple of times a year. The Riksbank and Finansinspektionen each make their report completely independent of each other, and that is one of the main problems. Since the different authorities are responsible for different parts of the work, it is essential that their different basic assessments of the level of risk of a particular factor point in the same direction and that they do not communicate divergent messages. It is precisely such differences that have been vented in public a number of times in recent years and created uncertainty about the work of financial stability. If you read FSPOS comments you understand that this is not good. That this may happen depends on the uncertainties of the respective authority's mandate, powers and how the work is organised. Of course, it is not acceptable that the decisive work on financial stability in Sweden should be undermined by such shortcomings. This is why we believe that there is a need to tighten up the way in which the overall work on financial stability is organised, so that the authorities are forced to create a common picture of the reality involving all the authorities concerned and to provide a common description of the current state of financial stability reporting. For this to be possible, the division of responsibilities must be made much more strict than is the case today. Of course, the respective authorities must be responsible for their respective parts of the report. Such changes would in themselves be stabilising factors in relation to the current regime. In addition, we need a system in which the government and the parliament prepare and decide on a sufficiently comprehensive set of tools that the various authorities have to work with to deal with the different situations that arise. These tools must be in place when they need to be used so that the work does not drag on and so that ill-minded forces are not given the opportunity to exploit shortcomings in the ability of the authorities to act quickly and effectively. There is now an investigation into the Riksbank's role and possible amendments to the Riksbank Act. This is a good thing, but not enough, because the ambiguities in the division of responsibilities are spread across the entire area of authority concerned and are therefore not covered by the remit of the investigation. Therefore, in order to eliminate the problem, we propose the following. Firstly, the organisation of macroprudential policy should therefore be reviewed and clarified. For those areas where continued shared responsibility can be practical, it must be clear which elements each authority has the main responsibility for and how the authorities should collaborate to achieve a common vision. Secondly, the Financial Stability Council should become a forum for interaction with a common decision-making process. The Council should also be the sender of the Joint Financial Stability Report. It is important that the process of reflection and decision-making remains transparent in parts where it does not undermine the purpose, i.e. to build stability in the financial system. Thirdly, the powers and tools of the authorities should be developed and made available to the respective authorities to deal with under their own responsibility. In this context, it is important that the respective authority be given a sufficiently broad and deep competence, but also responsibility for being able to act in time and sufficiently forcefully. In order to implement this, we have drawn up a draft committee directive. We will gladly share this with you in the other parties if you are interested in it.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-117	Madam President, I would like If in the previous speech I had reason to say that the Left Party is breaking open doors, you can say that here you kick in open doors, rush in and say: We have the solution. A Riksbank investigation has been set up, which Mr Olle also mentioned. But the interesting thing is that, precisely because of the problems that arose and the arguments that have been between the various authorities, the Riksbank's investigation has been commissioned to look at these issues to see how to solve them. I would be happy to agree with the issues of over-indebtedness in households, court dealings and other stupidities that occur in this context. But we changed the law. Did Olle Felten miss it completely? Sometimes you do not follow various motions, but you have not even read the report here. I cannot see that there is anything in this that is essentially not affected by the Riksbank's investigation. Possibly there are also some ongoing work in the EU.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-121	Madam President, I would like This is going to be a little comical. Börje Vestlund has not understood what our exercise and reservation in this context contain. Börje Vestlund talks about an open door. No, there are no open doors, because there's not even a door. We have looked quite thoroughly at how the work on financial stability is organised. We have also looked at the various investigations under way. The Riksbank's investigation is limited to the Riksbank's organisation, working methods and function. It does not concern Finansinspektionen, not Riksgälden and not how the authorities should cooperate, since the Riksbank's investigation only concerns the Riksbank. There Börje Vestlund is completely out and bikes with his comment. But we have a rather extensive investigation on which we base this, and I will gladly hand it over to Börje Vestlund so that he can read what we really want, if he did not understand the main features of my speech.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-125	Madam President, I would like I usually read the motions mentioned in your speeches. Not only do I read the motions, but I read the whole exercise to see what it means. The description is correct. There is no doubt that there is a problem with the various authorities and bodies that have to decide on this. It also points to the investigation that Goodfriend and King did. It is quite clear that this needs to be done. But they have done the same. It is true that this investigation is primarily about the Riksbank, but that does not mean that the investigation is prevented from taking initiatives to resolve the conflicts that have existed. There is no doubt that it has been unclear who has been responsible for macroprudential policy. Sometimes there has been a rather embarrassing situation between the various heads of government. I still find this hard to understand. I promise Olle Felten that I have both read motions and taken a good look at Goodfriends and Kings' investigation, so in this context I feel completely calm that these are the issues that will be investigated in the Riksbank investigation.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-128	Madam President, I would like However, the Riksbank's investigation concerns the Riksbank, not Finansinspektionen and the Swedish National Debt Office. Börje Vestlund is wrong in substance. It is true that some parts of what we are talking about are included in the committee directive for the Riksbank investigation, but that is only a small part of it. It is the whole that is important when we talk about how we organise the overall work. It is not about details for an individual authority, but about how we build an entire way of working with financial stability. I would like to read out the conclusion of the investigation that we initiated and which was carried out by the Parliamentary Investigation Service, RUT. I mentioned it earlier. It says quite well what this is all about. The investigation is on a total of 19 pages and describes how poorly the regulatory framework for these authorities' working methods is designed. The conclusion is roughly as follows: It is therefore in a practical and formal sense not fully understood how the work on financial stability should be distributed between the Riksbank and Finansinspektionen. This work and the allocation of responsibilities for macroprudential policy and financial stability in the financial system have not yet crystallized with regard to formal responsibilities. This is the pillar and says almost everything. It is not just about the Riksbank, nor about just one of the other authorities, but about the overall work.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-133	Madam President, I would like Together with my party friend Erik Ezelius in Tidaholm I have exercised about cash handling. The background is simple. We're moving out in our constituencies. In Jönköping County and Västra Götaland we meet people. Few questions concern people as much as closed bank accounts, maimed ATMs and penalty fees for submitting their resources from associations of different kinds. Of course, a switch to electronic commerce is both good and reasonable. It creates a different security, reduces robbery risks and makes infrastructure cheap. This is beneficial. But all social changes must take into account the society in which we live. We have to listen to the relative of the old pensioner in Alingsås or Gränna, who feels insecure about using the card in the store and who also feels a hesitation and awe to go to the ATM and withdraw cash. Perhaps you want someone close to you to do this service so that you have the familiar hundred or fifty pieces in your wallet when you go to Konsum or Pressbyrån. 11⁄2 million people are affected, and they do not deal with electronic communications when they manage their financial means. They want to use their cash. As I mentioned, it becomes almost absurd when the non-profit sector, which I think should be encouraged and motivated, is not allowed to deposit money at the bank but has to pay a special fee. They may have had a football or floorball tournament with girls and boys and collected or received funds for juice and boiled sausages sold. In the same way, it is for the pensioners' associations around our country. They mean a lot to people's meetings and welfare. I think that the Rural Committee has taken a wise line on these issues. They agree with me and Erik Ezelius in our motion, namely that cash handling should be regulated by law. I note that the Riksbank's investigation will urgently deal with the issue of cash handling, and I expect it to come forward quickly with a proposal. For it does not seem reasonable – at a time when the four major banks earn 100 billion and over 60 billion are paid – that sports clubs and pensioners' associations should not be able to file their cash. Madam President, I would like I could express this in a slightly more casual way than the usual parliamentary prosecuting. I sat down one evening and wrote a little verse about this. I've called it Bullet Money on piggybacks. 中 Rightly, hunting for wolves and bears is strictly regulated in order not to eradicate the animals. Elders must not be shot freely either. There are a number within the defined area. On the other hand, piggyback massacres are taking place. Where no gunpowder is saved to finally put down the safe and educational phenomenon of the piggy bank. Because once we taught the children to save. Then they went to the bank and deposited the money. Eventually, one could conquer something yearning for vigorous savings. The big banks want to stop this effectively. You know the four people who make $100 billion a year together. To the extent that the banks handle real money, you charge for receiving it! Swedbank takes SEK 100 and Handelsbanken 7 per cent of the amount. Not only are children affected, but they are in good company with many associations and their lottery or coffee stalls. No writer of a New Year's Review would have made it more hilarious. The Riksbank is printing new money and replacing the old ones. The banks refuse to deal with them. Shutting down bank accounts and walling down ATMs. One might ask, which is the most serious crime. Robbing a bank or owning a bank. ..................................................... The last was the words of German playwright Bertolt Brecht.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-142	Madam President, I would like On behalf of the Left Party Members, I would like to thank you for the fantastic poem and quote that Mr Persson made at the end. I share Peter Persson's description of the situation. As the final words show, it is clear that the banks have a great responsibility in this. We find ourselves in a strange situation, where we are experiencing a cash exchange that the Riksbank has initiated and which the banks say they will help with. But no later than this morning, we saw in the news that traders feel that they are the ones who are to take responsibility. There are beautiful maps that show where you can exchange your cash, but there is no place in Hällefors where they can be exchanged. We are definitely facing a major challenge. The big question I have asked myself many times is what responsibility we here in Parliament have. I am pleased that Peter Persson highlights the Rural Committee's reasoning and conclusions on the fact that legislation is actually needed. This is also something that the Riksbank has put forward recently. Stefan Ingves, Governor of the Riksbank, told me that no other statement from him has received so much attention in ordinary people. He receives letters about this written by people who themselves are not even able to write the letter but allow others to help them. This shows how close to the citizen this issue is and how important it is to some people. It is easy that we in society run away in a way that makes us forget some behind us. What concerns me, however, is that Peter Persson's party, the Social Democrats, is not quite as strong with what you want. It is not clear and says that this is something that we should implement in law. My question to Peter Persson is: What can you do, and what do you do to convince your party that it is time to stop releasing the market? It is time to tell the banks what responsibility they have and ensure that we get legislation to keep cash in our society.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-147	Madam President, I would like My life is now getting pretty long. I've been a social democrat my whole life. I have made the interesting note that that tragic break-out 100 years ago now, with seven years' delay, is becoming more and more Social Democratic. It is in itself pleasing, for in essence it is what Svenneling says, what I say and what Börje Vestlund previously said in no way different. We say that the Riksbank's investigation must urgently review this issue. You want to put it in another investigation. Who knows, it might take seven years longer?
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-149	Madam President, I would like It is always interesting to discuss the party split in 1917. In fact, I had the privilege of discussing it with Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson, and we also agreed that it was probably good that there was a split-up in 1917. There is a very clear difference between the eformist Social Democrats who are moving very slowly and do not want to bump into the CEOs and lobbyists of the sto rbanks and the slightly more revolutionary Left Party that says that we actually have to take responsibility and that we have to make a difference here and now. The Left Party brought forward the requirement to impose a responsibility on the banks for cash handling long before the Riksbank's exchange of banknotes started. We as legislators have a responsibility to regulate what we say is the responsibility of society. We think it is important to take this responsibility. You can always discuss how much to investigate. But the problem with the investigations that the government has set up has been that they have not taken responsibility seriously. You've never looked at the banks' responsibility for the cash. If you and I, Peter, were to write a directive for an investigation that could seriously produce a proposal for legislation, it would sound different from the investigative task that the Payment Services Account Directive had and which now also the Swedish Banking Act investigation has, because that assignment is not about what is the responsibility of the banks. Instead, it is about the responsibility of the Riksbank. Maybe this is the last time we have printed new money in Sweden. That may well be the case. Next time we may not be printing money, but we will be issuing e-kronas instead. Then we must have legislation that is adapted to it. Today we have legislation that is not adapted to the Riksbank and is certainly not adapted for those people who do not get access to the basic payment services. I am convinced that the Riksbank investigation that will present its proposal in 2019 will not solve this problem either.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-153	Madam President, I would like Unlike the young Håkan Svenneling, I was with 1917. The radical swarm who spoke aloud and had the fancy slogans has not done much, but it has a practical and reformist Social Democracy. Welcome home, Håkan Svenneling!
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-154	Madam President, I would like It is almost impossible to resist taking a line on Peter Persson now that he is in the speaker's chair. We both have an image of having fairly clear and strong conflict areas. What may worry me more than the cashless society is that those conflict areas almost do not exist at all, starting from what Peter Persson said. Rather, I felt the need to agree with him in his concern about rural impoverishment and the problems of the structural change that we are now experiencing. Of course, it is a problem that we can no longer handle cash in a way that we are used to from associations and which is important for the sake of small businesses in particular. There are also large groups of citizens who are unable to handle notes and coins. The law says that banknotes and coins are valid means of payment. But there is no obligation – or at least the law has been interpreted as there is no obligation – to accept notes and coins. Of course, this issue will be addressed in the Banking Act investigation that is under way. I'll be part of that investigation. That issue will be addressed. Of course, it is possible to change the law. But I think there is reason to look a little deeper at the question. There may also be disadvantages in making higher demands on the banks. This could lead to even more closed ATMs and even more closed bank accounts in rural areas. What does Peter Persson think? What are the risks he sees in this?
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-159	Madam President, I would like Jörgen Andersson and I have had many pleasant debates over the years in this Chamber and talks outside the Chamber. We have talked about areas of conflict in politics. They're becoming clear in your own party, aren't they, Jörgen? I guess that's where the conflict surface is today. But it's always interesting to debate with you. I note that, in substance, you fully share my view. You are concerned that the infrastructure will deteriorate in the countryside where you live. As a social democrat, I think that when the market does not work and delivers what is reasonable for people and communities, it is the responsibility of politics to go in. When the social infrastructure, in terms of being able to handle cash and to take it out and deposit it, is under way, politics must go in and regulate. The banks aren't just for making huge profits, laundering money and letting small savers get hurt, are they? The market must also you as moderate, Jörgen Andersson, think should have a regulation?
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-162	Madam President, I would like Of course, cash is part of the infrastructure that we so badly need both in the countryside and in the city. In addition, there are actually technologies for dealing with this with cash, but for some strange reason it has only focused on dealing with electronic transfers and payments. However, there are technological developments that make it possible to handle cash as well. Unfortunately, there is no interest whatsoever in using the technology. We share the problem description. We share the view on the need for a functioning infrastructure in its broad sense. There's no conflict line there. Possibly, higher requirements would be imposed on banks and higher requirements would be imposed on them in terms of infrastructure. However, I think – that is possibly where we find some kind of conflict line – that what we should put even more emphasis on is to ensure that we have better competition also in the credit market and in the banking system. It is, of course, a question of regulation and of imposing higher demands on the banks. But there must also be better competition. This well demonstrates that the balance of power between consumers and banks is not sound. It's not in the right place, so to speak. The banks have too much power against consumers. Consumers should have greater power in relation to the banks. This would best be done by increasing competition in the banking market.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-165	Madam President, I would like I feel that the banks are part of a social infrastructure – it's just like there's water in the tap and we have the road to run on when we go to work. It is not the individual consumer in Virserum or Visingsö who has the capacity and the power to force something out. That's where we split up. You Moderates believe that it is individuals who can do this by increasing competition. I believe that this is essentially a social issue. Demands must be made for the large banks that exist. They must fulfil the responsibility towards the whole of society, for society has indeed fulfilled its responsibility to save the banks. Then the pensioners of Visingsö, Virserum and elsewhere will probably get something back for the sacrifices they and the whole community made.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-167	Madam President, I would like This report deals primarily with the National Audit Office's report. The assessments made by the Swedish National Audit Office are prepared or investigated and may be debated when concrete proposals come. However, I would like to go into more detail on the announcement of open data as well as on the moderate open source reservation, because I have the impression that not everyone knows what it is or understands why we should speed up developments a little more than the government does. Sweden is high in many digital rankings, not least in the European Commission's DESI, The Digital Economy and Society Index, where we end up in third place after Denmark and Finland. However, a number stands out. When it comes to digital public services, we lag behind the current open data. There, Sweden is currently in place 22. The EU has pushed forward through the so-called PSI Directive, public sector information, which was decided by the Swedish Parliament in 2010. The Directive makes it easier for persons and businesses to use public information for both commercial and non-commercial purposes. According to Wikipedia, open data refers to digital information that is freely available without restriction and that meets certain requirements, such as that the data does not contain personal data or is subject to confidentiality, and is provided in the original format. Another definition is the Open Knowledge Foundations: Data can be called open data if anyone can freely use, reuse and distribute these with the greatest equivalent of specifying source or requirement to share data in the same way. In a country like Sweden, which for a long time has collected a large amount of public data at all levels and in different authorities, there is a lot of data. And there's more to it all the time. So far, the data is used relatively limited. Much is subject to charges, and the agreements contain restrictions on dissemination. It inhibits development. Open data can be used for everything. For example, geodata from Lantmäteriet can be used for more efficient urban planning, climate-smarter transport, increased transparency and more innovation – to name just a few examples. Other examples are environmental data, population data, cultural data and traffic data from municipalities. It is also about data about what is happening here in Parliament. It is freely accessible and standardised and thus promotes businesses and citizens who can come up with business ideas or appreciate transparency, not least from the point of view of democracy. There are some things to work with, because there are still limitations. Open data enables products and services to be developed – which everyone benefits from. Thus, with the announcement, we want to speed up progress to catch up with other European countries that are more advanced, and would be happy to do so. We have very good conditions for that. Open source sources are also an incentive for development in the implementation of IT investments. But it is also a way of reducing costs in the public sector. In addition, more flexible IT systems can be adapted to their own solutions and avoid possible lock-in effects in the supplier. As digitalisation is increasingly pervading the business, it is important that the public sector also contributes to increasing Sweden's competitiveness. Open source contributes to just that. I would therefore like to ask for the approval of reservation 1.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-176	Madam President, I would like We are therefore discussing the report on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the digitisation of public administration. I can almost say without shocking Anette that I agree with most of what Anette has said. She did not think I would say that in the first 20 seconds of my speech. What, then, is it about? On 21 June 2016, the Swedish National Audit Office published the review report Digitization of the public administration – A simpler, more transparent and efficient administration? There have been no motions in response to the letter, but there are a number of requests for exercise from the general exercise time on open source, open data and digital management. S has no reservations. On the other hand, we have a specific opinion. That is really what I intend to do, Madam President. As the committee points out, we believe that the state authorities have a large amount of information that can be of value to innovators and that greater availability of open data creates values for both the state and the general one that well exceeds the cost of making the information available. As can be seen from the Government's letter The Swedish National Audit Office's report on the digitisation of public administration has also taken steps to create the conditions for easier access to and use of public data. Among other things, the National Archives have been tasked with promoting the authorities' efforts to make information and open data available. The Government also intends to return to the Riksdag by 2018 in terms of models for long-term financing of digital infrastructure management tasks, such as open geodata. In December 2016, the Digitalisation Commission left its final position For digitalisation in time. It is a work aimed at promoting digitalisation in Sweden and achieving the IT policy objective that Sweden should be the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation. The report makes recommendations that are currently being prepared within the Government Office. In spring 2017, the government will also present a digitalisation strategy. A number of measures have therefore already been taken, which is why we believe that we should wait for the results of these before deciding on further measures.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-181	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 16. Today, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs is debating a report with a total of 190 requests in various motions from the 2015 and 2016 general exercise period. The allowances are, of course, very important, not least those that I have signed, but beyond that is the important thing we are doing today to address four announcements to the government, where the civil committee is in complete agreement. This is important. We have all agreed that we do not accept child marriage or polygamy. We have all supported forthcoming legislative work on a report from the 2014 custody inquiry. We also want an initiative to monitor the functioning of the legislation on guardians, good men and managers. This is a good way to work. The committee has talked, and we have had to bump and wet these issues and have come to the conclusion that this is how we want to proceed to Parliament and, with these four announcements, ask for decisions in this direction. First, Madam President, I would like to say something about child marriage. On 1 July 2014, new rules on civil and criminal law were introduced aimed at strengthening protection against child and forced marriages. The rules included a further restriction on the possibility of recognising children's and forced marriages in exceptional cases. Such marriages could therefore be recognized only if there are exceptional reasons. According to the Committee on Civil Liberties, after the consideration we have given, it is an important task for society to protect children in Sweden against marriage. Yeah, you heard me right. Marriage is extremely important and part of being responsible for the future race and society, but not for children. Children should be protected from marriage. It's not something they should have to think about before they're 18 years old. The Committee on Civil Liberties therefore welcomes the fact that the Government has commissioned a special investigator to investigate the need for measures to ensure enhanced protection against child marriage and forced marriages. That part of the assignment relating to the recognition of foreign child marriages shall be reported in an interim report by 6 December 2017. It is important that legislation that further restricts the possibility of recognising child and forced marriages should enter into force as soon as possible. Thus, foreign forced marriages, child marriages and proxy marriages can be recognised today only if there are exceptional reasons. The proposal for the above-mentioned legislative amendments states that the expression is used to clarify the significant restriction to be applied. An overall assessment shall be made on a case-by-case basis on the basis of the information available. For exceptional reasons to be considered to exist, the refusal of recognition in the individual case must have serious consequences for the couple or it would otherwise appear unreasonable not to recognise the marriage. Now the committee goes even further and says that we do not want to see child marriage, and therefore we are making an announcement that the government should return to Parliament as soon as possible with legislative proposals that further limit the possibility of, in exceptional cases, recognising child marriage and forced marriages, from the already very tough situation that exists today. We do not want to see this happening. I move on to polygamy, bigamy or bigamy, whatever term you want to use. Swedish family law law is based on the monogamous marriage between two people. According to chapter one. Section 1 of the Marriage Code becomes the two who enter into marriage with each other spouses. A ban on two marriages has been included in Chapter 2. Paragraph 4 of the Marriage Code, which provides that a married person or a partner in a registered partnership may not enter into a new marriage. A permanent marriage is a barrier to marriage from which no exemption can be granted. Tvegifte is criminalized according to Chapter 7. Section 1 of the Criminal Code. The number of persons registered by the Swedish Tax Agency as married to more than one person amounts to approximately 300. In the vast majority of cases, these are to be regarded as so-called false bigamists. It may be one who has been married before but cannot show in a sufficiently formal way that the marriage is dissolved or that even the former spouse of the marriage is deceased. The committee wants the government to analyse what is behind the fact that as many as 300 people are registered in the population register as married to more than one person and consider whether there is a need to clarify the legislation in order to ensure that polygamous marriages are not recognised in Sweden. These are two of the announcements agreed by the committee. The third is that in a forthcoming legislative work on a report from the 2014 custody inquiry, the government should pay particular attention to what the committee has said. The fourth announcement is that the government should take the initiative as soon as possible to monitor the functioning of the legislation on guardians, good men and trustees. In this context, the government should also consider other improvements to the system of good men and trustees. My colleagues in the committee will deepen these issues. There are reservations and they have their value, Madam President. I would therefore like to mention three reservations supported by the Christian Democrats. In reservation 2 the Christian Democrats say that there is reason to propose a completely new legal order for cohabitation between two adults. The proposal is based on the fact that the church and the state are now separate and that the exercise of authority in this context should be reserved only for the state. Regulation should take place through the introduction of a civil code of cohabitation. We believe that the concept of marriage should be removed from the legislation, and according to our proposal, couples of both the same and different genders can get married through registration. The legal effects should be linked to registration, while acts of blessing in different forms and other ceremonies become a matter for churches, communities and other associations and of course for the parties themselves. At present, only the Christian Democrats support this, even though it happens to be two liberal athletes who brought it up to date this very time. I guess in time there'll be more. Pending that, I note that this is the position of the Christian Democrats. Reservation 15 is about good men for unaccompanied children. When unaccompanied children and young people arrive in Sweden they lack by definition family but also, in the vast majority of cases, friends and other contact networks that can provide the warmth and support that is so important that you get when you come alone to a new country. The Christian Democrats believe that it is particularly important that these children quickly have safe housing and a good man. Today it takes too long from the arrival of the minor to the appointment of a good man. The reason for this is mainly the lack of good men. The Christian Democrats want all unaccompanied children to be guaranteed a good man within 24 hours of arrival. One final reservation that I would like to highlight in the debate is reservation 16, which I also chose to endorse. It is about the registration of wills, and it is a reservation that the Christian Democrats have in common with the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats. There are times when a will has been established but the will cannot be found after the testator's death. In other words, wills are sometimes lost — knowingly or unconsciously. We can't have that. To what extent this happens, we naturally do not know. There may be a number of darkness; we cannot speak about it. But we believe that since a prenup can be registered with an authority, there should be a corresponding possibility for wills. Such a possibility is currently lacking. The Swedish Tax Agency has drawn up a proposal that provides an opportunity to register wills in an official will register. Here, the reserveers say, the government should return as soon as possible with a bill that is in line with what the Swedish Tax Agency has proposed.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-205	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the CU10 report on family law. I welcome this because these issues affect people's lives in a way that few other political issues can do. Working family laws are important to our society, especially as we know that life can be fragile and how fast it can change – sometimes for the better, sometimes for the worse. The number of people affected by family law in individual cases entails a special need for rules that are in line with time. Our area of decision differs significantly from other policy areas, namely that decisions taken or not taken in this area have a direct, concrete and real impact on people's everyday lives. These decisions can mean a decisive turn in relation to the milestones of life, that is, weddings, family formation, birth of children, divorce, death, and the like. Of course, like everyone else, I feel that there is room for improvement and other wording. In addition, I would like to mention that I personally think that, unfortunately, those of us who are involved in the various political areas often miss out on the children's perspective. Not infrequently, processes, policies and paragraphs are given priority over what is actually best for the child concerned. I am, of course, aware that the system often bureaucratises and increases distance between decision-makers and those concerned, but nevertheless I hope that from time to time we will try to remind ourselves of the human dimension in the performance of our duties. Madam President, I would like This time, the CU10 report is a major exercise and covers 190 motion requests, 17 reservations and four announcements. This confirms my earlier observation that the substantive issues of the Civil Affairs Committee really involve and touch upon. That is why, Madam President, I intended to limit my speech to the areas of forced marriage and child marriage, social abuse, polygamy, guardians and good men and the registration of parenthood. A central part of every democracy is freedom of choice. Few things therefore upset me more than life decisions made under threat, coercion, or deceptive forms. It is particularly serious when it affects children and young people, as is the case with forced marriages and child marriages. These can never be justified and must always be fought. Child marriage and forced marriage should never be accepted in our country. On 1 July 2014, a number of amended laws came into force to strengthen the protection of vulnerable persons. Nevertheless, there are a number of children who are married and live with their husbands with the good memory of the authorities. There must be legislation that is clearer and that provides protection for children. A previous survey revealed that some 70 000 young people in Sweden were concerned that they would not be allowed to choose their own partner or who they would be allowed to marry. Also a report from the National Board of Health and Welfare shows that the most common reason why young people are taken care of and placed in sheltered housing is honour-related violence and oppression. Conflicts over the choice of marriage mates and about marriage are often the reason why young people are subjected to honor-related violence. For LGBTQ people there is a particularly high risk of being married off against their will as this is seen as a way to correct their sexuality. Children and young people with intellectual disabilities are also a particularly vulnerable group when it comes to child marriage and forced marriages. Despite the legislation against child marriage and forced marriages, these types of marriages still exist in our country. Madam President, I would like Today there are almost 300 registered cases of polygamy – polygamy – in Sweden. This is because Swedish law accepts polygamous marriages if the marriage has been concluded in a country where it is legal and the persons have moved to Sweden. According to Swedish law, the starting point is that foreign marriages are recognised if they are valid according to the law of the country in which they were concluded. Acceptance of polygamy risks creating a difficult and radical change in marriage as an institution. In particular, there is a risk that very strong anti-women forces will benefit from the legitimacy and expansion of fundamentally unequal relations constellations. Our starting point is that women should not risk more or less being forced into a marriage with several other wives. In addition to being clear about our modern and equal values, legislation needs to be clear and reasonable based on, for example, custody of children and division of property. Madam President, I would like The Swedish welfare society must work for everyone. Children and people who are sick or disabled must be given the necessary protection and support. The transferee activities are part of the most basic legal protection that the state and municipalities provide for the vulnerable in society. Good men and stewards therefore play an important role as deputies for the individual. It is positive that so many people make amazing contributions as good men, often with non-profits, and thus contribute to increased security for many people who need support. Unfortunately, there are serious shortcomings in the system that need to be addressed because the shortcomings also cause harm to individuals. There are both quality deficiencies and abuse. We propose measures to ensure that persons appointed as deputies are competent, suitable for the mission and receive the necessary support to make a good contribution. We also believe that it is important for the individual to have a significant influence on who is appointed as his or her deputy, that supervision works in a legally secure manner and that the right administrative conditions prevail. We in the moderate group have visited a number of guardians, had talks with good men and met Sweden's guardians. The overall picture is that there is a need for a comprehensive review of activities across the country. The review should include, for example, improving the training of good men, strengthening the supervision of good men, clarifying who should report crimes to the police, establishing a public register for good men, introducing a digital national form system and introducing an IT system for the uniform recognition of good men. We also think that some form of national cohesive secretariat should be set up to support the transfer guardian in various municipalities, manage and develop the activities and be responsible for statistical management. Today, responsibility is divided into seven different county boards that work in different ways. Madam President, I would like There is currently no clear regulation in the law on how to register parenthood after a parent has done a gender correction. This is an issue that has become even more topical since the sterilisation requirement for sex correction has been removed. The law should be clarified in such a way that it is clear that legal change of gender is fully recognised. There are examples of a man standing as a biological mother in the population register, which can cause problems in contact with, for example, school and health care. Reforming the law means strengthening the position of both the parent and the child. Finally, I would like to thank my colleagues in the committee as well as the officials of the committee secretariat. It is thanks to the good climate of dialogue that we have managed to land in this report, which is essentially good. I therefore propose that you accept reservation 6.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-223	Madam President, I would like Why are children still treated as married in Sweden in 2017? Almost exactly two years ago, on 4 March 2015, we debated child marriage and forced marriage in this House. At that time, the Swedish Democrats were the only ones to want to see tightening up the rules while the other parties were silent – except the Center Party's Ola Johansson, who could not understand why I spent time arguing for stricter rules against child marriage. It is gratifying that all parties have now understood that there is a need for stricter rules. It is also gratifying that there will be an announcement to the government. The Swedish Democrats were first, and we were also most clear about what we stand for and how we want society to develop. In our Sweden, children will be allowed to be children. Never will we accept that child marriage becomes a part of everyday life in Sweden. As most of the time recently, representatives of other parties have repeated that children's marriages in Sweden are known in autumn 2015, that it was then that the problem arose and that they have since done what they can to prevent children's marriages in Sweden. It's just a problem with that statement: it doesn't match reality. Child marriage in Sweden is not something that became known until autumn 2015. It was the other parties who chose to look away. Sure, it is true that in 2014 some tightening up was introduced and made it impossible for people from Sweden to marry children, but the shortcomings in that law were already known when it was adopted. In autumn 2014, the Tax Agency accidentally registered a case of child marriage where the girl was as young as 14 years of age. This caused a minor debate in the media. The tax authority explained its conduct with a lack of procedures – in the future only children over 15 years of age could be registered as married to the state authority. This was reported by both Swedish Television and Swedish Radio but also by media such as Avpixlat and Aftonbladet. It was therefore very clear even before the 2015 debate that children in Sweden were registered as married and treated as married by authorities. The other parties have deliberately delayed the measures by two years in order not to have to support the proposals of the Swedish Democrats but instead to copy them and present them as their own proposals and then seek our support to force the government to take action. The question is whether we should now celebrate that the Swedish Democrats still got their motion through in the end, or whether we should provide for all the children who have been forced to remain in marriage in Sweden. Of course, it would have been quickest if the government had chosen to act directly. But that's hoping for too much, I've learned. It can be repeated: Children should never be treated as married in Sweden. I hope that we can agree on this and that it will also be the result of our announcement today. Madam President, I would like For most people in Sweden, it is obvious that marriage and love are closely linked. It is also obvious that you decide for yourself who to marry and that you do so based on your own free will and feelings. Today, it is obvious to us that marriage is a proof of love between two people who love each other. The time in Sweden when marriage was rather a business arrangement and to preserve the wealth of the family is for us long forgotten. These are things that we can read about in books that tell us how things used to be in our country. Yet something seems to be wrong in Sweden today. Young people, especially in exclusion areas, increasingly feel that they lack the ability to choose partners freely. What hardly happened a few decades ago is now a reality for a large part of young people growing up in Sweden. Today it is not primarily the wealth or the farm that should be preserved in the family. Rather, it is a matter of marriage to someone of the same religion. Sometimes the forced marriage will also give someone the opportunity to get a residence permit in Sweden. The law against forced marriages was strengthened in 2014, but it has apparently had no real effect – partly because the new law is full of loopholes where both forced and child marriages are accepted but also because of the difficulties to demonstrate that there has been coercion. Perhaps the worst cases are those that are never discovered and never reported, those where the woman finds herself getting married and accepting this. It is by nature almost impossible to even estimate how many such cases exist in Sweden. Moreover, the fact that we have a government that would rather sweep the problems under the carpet than do anything about them does not make things any easier. Unfortunately, young women at risk of forced marriage are left to their fate. I hope that in future the other parties will also copy our proposal for a 24-year rule for marriage that will lead to a residence permit in Sweden. We want Sweden to learn from our neighbour Denmark. Denmark introduced in 2002 a 24-year rule which in practice means that anyone who wants to marry someone from a non-EU country must be over 24 years old. This almost immediately led to young people with immigrant backgrounds becoming more educated and thus also getting jobs and establishing themselves better in society. It is believed that this is largely due to the fact that young Danes with an immigrant background escaped the family's demand for early marriage, thereby giving someone familiar to the family the opportunity to obtain a residence permit in Denmark. We Swedish democrats are convinced that such legislation would have the same positive effects in Sweden. On Friday 31 March, Morgan Johansson will answer my interpellation about forced marriage and the precedent that came last autumn. It showed not only that it is difficult to prove forced marriages but also that even when the evidence exists and holds, the penalty is almost non-existent. Less than a year's imprisonment to force someone to marry is hardly a punishment proportionate to the crime but rather a mockery of the victim. It does not help to do anything illegal unless there is a penalty linked to the crime that is reasonably proportionate to the offence. I hope that the government here will take advantage of the announcement that is now in place to really tighten up the law and also link the law to a much tougher penalty. Anything else would be a great betrayal of the vulnerable women. Madam President, I would like That children should be entitled to both their parents should be a matter of course. Two years ago, a unanimous committee agreed that the father of a child should be established even before the child was born. This is so that the child will naturally have his or her father at birth even if the parents are not married. Unfortunately, the government has not yet come back with any concrete proposal. A natural next step after giving the child the right to both parents from birth should be to give the mother and the father joint custody even if they are not married. The Father is an important person, and his presence should always be sought. More and more studies show the positive effects of having a father present during his childhood. Among the people who have fallen wrong in our society is often a common denominator in an absent father. The father is simply too important a person in a child's life to risk his absence unnecessarily. Despite the work of equality in the family, the mother's right to decide alone whether the father of the joint child should be given custody. This means that the father is completely extradited to the mother's discretion if he is to be included in the child's life from the beginning or not. The law therefore needs to be amended and modernised so that even unmarried parents automatically have joint custody at birth. I'll finish with my pleas. The Swedish Democrats have a long list of reservations. Of course, I support everyone, but for time winning I choose to agree only to reservation 12 on automatic custody of unmarried parents and reservation 16 on the registration of wills.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-254	Madam President, I would like I have to admit, I don't really know how to put the words. There is an expression in English, patronizing, to pat on the head and become unclely. I'm at great risk at this point. I apologise in advance, Mikael Eskilandersson. It's not my intention, but I'm running the risk of becoming an uncle. I would like to say that we agree on these announcements. Therefore, I give Mikael Eskilandersson the tip not to go into the dead end where you seek battle even though everyone is with you. In this case, Mikael Eskilandersson has won from his point of view. If I were to be really picky, I would point out that the Christian Democrats thought this was quite much earlier than you came into Parliament at all. If I were to be very picky, I would say that it is in fact a liberal motion that the whole committee has approved. So when it comes to taking credit, the Swedish Democrats may not be in the front line. But if the Swedish Democrats, with Mikael Eskilandersson as their representative, want to go somewhere in this house, they should not seek conflicts for their own sake. Seek fellowship with the rest of us by making proposals without then saying: Now you agree with us! Why didn't you do it ten years earlier? At first, it is not quite true, nor is it a way forward – excuse me for saying so.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-259	Mr President, I would like to Two years ago, in fact, we were the only ones to stand in this Chamber and advocate that we remove the leeches that are usually mentioned in relation to forced and child marriages. After all, I feel that someone must point out that if we had done so, many young people would not have found themselves in marriages which they did not choose as adults, free individuals but were forced or married into without being of age. Of course you should not seek a fight; I can agree with that, and I do not think I do. But I think it should be pointed out: people should know that the silence of the other parties was largely compact, with the exception of the Center Party, which had exactly the opposite meaning and did not understand why we raised the issue of child and forced marriage at all. However, as I said when I finished that part of my speech, I hope that in the future we agree that we should not have marriages with children in Sweden and that we should do what we can to prevent forced marriages.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-262	Mr President, I would like to In fact, children's marriages have been banned for a long time. Polygamy has been banned in Sweden since ancient times. This is not news, it is about tightening up practices. Nevertheless, I am calling for in all good sense – call me unclely, or possibly experienced because I have been here since 1991 – ways forward. When it comes to you, don't be so angry and angry but welcome that everyone agrees! It's a fantastic thing with four unanimous announcements, in good spirits, on rather complicated and controversial issues. Rejoice on it instead of being so angry!
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-264	Mr President, I would like to I apologise if I have been perceived as angry; that has not been my intention. When you want to put pressure behind the words, it is easy that you press a little too hard and then you are perceived as having a mood that is not the happiest. I agree that child marriage has been banned in Sweden, but our authorities have not really treated child marriage that way. On the contrary, in too many cases we have read about how the authorities, both the Migration Agency and the Tax Agency, treated people as married even though they were under 18 and sometimes even under 15, even if they were mistakes, as they themselves described it. This is something that we must all help to stop. This is not how it should be done in Sweden.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-266	Mr President, I would like to It's a feast! It is here that we are discussing everything, from conception to declaration of death, and also what happens after death when the inheritance is to be distributed – things that really matter. Who says the Committee on Civil Liberties is boring? We have a discussion with a position based on values and human views; it is important. Rarely does it become as clear as when you listen to Mikael Eskilandersson's and the Swedish Democrats' proposals. We will, as Mr Skånberg has just pointed out, take a decision here today in full agreement to close the remaining gaps in legislation, which will prevent child marriage from being regarded as valid – a policy which I imagine the Swedish Democrats welcome and which they have also supported here, but which in this case has been initiated by the Alliance. Yet there is – I do not know if Mikael Eskilandersson said it – reservation 2 with another proposal, which, in addition to this, is aimed at increasing the demands of certain religions to show zero tolerance towards marriage under coercion and child marriage, and also that Swedish legislation and no one else should govern which marriages entered into within these religious communities are to be regarded as recognized. Mr President, I would like to I consider myself a Christian person: I belong to the Swedish Church, participate in church life at home in Kungsbacka and go to church from time to time to confess my faith. In addition to this, I believe that religiousness should be a private matter for everyone. The Swedish Democrats do not do this, who want to announce in the Riksdag in a very clear way which religions should be recognised and trusted in having the opportunity to marry people, and who should not be recognised. They do not content themselves with tightening up laws to be followed by the religions. So when they point out certain religions, they also point me out, who view me as a believing Christian. Having said that, on behalf of the Center Party, I would like to endorse the committee's proposal in the report in those parts in which Parliament takes a stand in order to limit the existence of child and forced marriages. Marrying children cannot be accepted in Sweden. It is good that we agree to close the possibility of having such a marriage, which has been concluded abroad, approved in Sweden. As Mr Tuve pointed out earlier, it is already forbidden to enter into such marriages here. The Center Party also endorses the proposal to clarify legislation against polygamous marriages. In Sweden it is allowed to be married to several people, but only as long as it does not happen at the same time. We note that, as far as we know, it is most common that the bigamists themselves are not able to keep track of whether the marriage they have already entered into has ceased to exist before they are allowed to enter into a new one. Mr President, I would like to For our part, the polygamy debate is a past chapter. The existence of so-called rainbow families and the possibility of living together in different ways should not be confused with how we view marriage as an institution and, above all, the legal responsibility that results from it for both spouses: for children, for their right of inheritance among themselves and for care. We look forward to seeing the investigations that will be presented, and we expect tightening up that makes polygamous marriages entered into abroad invalid, just as they are already illegal here in Sweden. Finally, we welcome the fact that there is agreement to review the system of good men. It is by now known how rogue people lurk of defenceless people both property and dignity and that it is done without the control and transparency of many of the municipal guardians. It needs to be made clearer to everyone which authority should have the main responsibility to ensure that the municipalities assume their responsibilities. Only last summer, more specifically on 14 June, I discussed this in this House with the Minister of Justice, and the answer he gave me is in fact reflected in the report. He acknowledged the shortcomings and promised sharper demands on county boards. But we have not seen any result of this yet after ten months. I hope that the announcement here today puts further pressure on the Minister. It is easy, Mr President, to forget all the humanitarian efforts made by good men for a small compensation, and we in the Center Party believe in man. That is why our starting point is that the system of good men should be maintained, but with one exception: the unaccompanied children. The large number of unaccompanied young people has become such a burden on the system that it is at risk of wrecking the transfer activities of the municipalities and tearing out those who want to help. It also requires completely different skills to provide for a person who has come to Sweden in the difficult circumstances it means to escape without his family and get around in a jungle of processes to get a residence permit, learn Swedish and work in the system we have with compensation, healthcare, schooling and various forms of introductions. It is already difficult for municipalities to recruit good men in the past, and with the specific requirements imposed, it is impossible in many municipalities. As we know, the influx of asylum seekers is not always proportional to the population of the municipalities receiving unaccompanied minors. Those who undertake to be good men to unaccompanied children often have several young people to work with. Often it works well, but sometimes it works less well. We therefore believe that professionalisation for this particular group is necessary. Instead of guaranteeing the appointment of a good man within 24 hours, as suggested also by the Christian Democrats, there should be a professional group to turn to who has the knowledge, readiness and ability to do a good job for their principal. That is not to say that there is no need to review the system of good men. It must be reformed, and we hope that the proposals that are on the table on future powers, and that we will discuss in the future, will be designed so that it will be so attractive and legally secure that we can relieve the good men. That is why I am in favour of our reservation 14 and, at the same time, of the unanimous position of the committee on the review of the good men's system. Finally, I would like to call for the approval of M, C, V and L reservation 9 on the recognition of parenthood also at assisted conception. The Center Party is pleased that everyone who wants children should be able to have it through assisted conception that results in the birth of a long-awaited child. Children are one of the strongest human driving forces and joys of life – believe me. We want to make it easier for all the cohabiting couples who want to be parents to be allowed to do so in the formal sense, regardless of the parents' biological sex or whether the couple has suffered from involuntary infertility. Thankfully, in our country we have the capacity and knowledge to bring beloved and long-awaited children into the world also with the help of assisted fertilization. In other contexts, however, we have warned of what can happen if a couple has children and one parent dies before he or she has been presumed to be a parent. If so, the child may be fatherless. Worse still, if the mother — the bearer of the child — were to die before the partner had his or her parenthood presumed. Then the child born becomes orphan, even though one of the parents is actually alive. He or she must then apply for adoption of his or her own child. That, of course, is not acceptable. I therefore agree with Mikael Eskilandersson that it should be easier for cohabiting couples to be parents. If the Center Party had had such a committee motion, we would surely have had a joint reservation. The difference between us and the Swedish Democrats is that we think this right should apply to all parents, even same-sex couples and couples who have had their child through assisted conception. That is why I find it strange that the parties representing the government here do not have similar views on the rights of just same-sex couples to be parents and think like the reserveers, especially when we have managed to convince you in the Green Party and the Social Democrats to agree with us on other things such as banning child marriages, getting into polygamy, reviewing custody rules to prevent social abuse and reviewing the system of good men. Mr President, I would like to If I have forgotten to press for anything, I hope that the alliance mates will see to it that it is done.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-285	Mr President, I would like to I feel compelled to get up and respond a little bit to what is said about us wanting Swedish legislation to apply to marriage. Ola Johansson pointed out that we would have some strange opinion because of this. He also pointed out that he had been to church recently. I went to church on Sunday. Maybe it's not much of a feat to go there. However, I think that Swedish legislation should apply in Sweden to all marriages. It would be very strange if we had a system in which Swedish legislation did not apply to marriage. Is it the Center Party's view that we should not comply with Swedish law when it comes to marriage? To believe communities are pointed out in order not to comply with Swedish legislation and that they must therefore take the consequences of it is also a natural step, in that case? If you do not comply with Swedish legislation then you must not marry people. There is only one way forward, and that is to tighten up the rules and ensure that they are also complied with. The religious community, whatever it is, which does not comply with the legislation that we have decided on here in Parliament should not have the right to marry people. I don't think it's harder than that.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-288	Mr President, I would like to I'm not as courteous as Tuve Skånberg was in the line shift with Mikael Eskilandersson. We can discuss the ecclesiastical commitment. I sang in the choir last Sunday. But maybe it's a detail. What provokes me so much is this way of making a difference. Similarity should apply before the law, regardless of what we are talking about. This can be the case if we are talking about business, if we are talking about associations, if we are talking about people-to-people, and if we are talking about religions. What we have managed to get a joint announcement here, and which Mikael Eskilandersson is behind, is that the law should be tightened up and that the law should apply to everyone. In addition to that, as a cream on the cake, the Swedish Democrats want to tighten up the supervision of religious communities. You don't have to be an Einstein to understand what religions are referred to. It is very possible that there are representatives of the Church of Sweden who decide to bring together minors. While we are on the theme of cream on the cake, it is a bit strange to read the various reservations of the Swedish Democrats. As has been said, we agreed that it is good that cohabiting couples should be presumed to be parents. That's what I said earlier in the speaker's chair that we're behind. But Mikael Eskilandersson performs in his own motion, which he has not reserved himself for, that he wants an investigation into paternity before the child is born. In addition, a party colleague would like to introduce a paternity test before a child is born, which is included in a reservation, should it turn out that there is a suspicion that someone else is presumed to be a parent. There's cake on cake here. I do not know what the Swedish Democrats want to achieve by putting proposals on top of each other that are not even consistent.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-291	Mr President, I would like to I don't really see the inconsistency. When it comes to the investigation of paternity, it is not strange to investigate paternity before the child is born if possible. If that is not possible, you must of course wait. When I was 23 years old, I had my first child – if I remember correctly from a previous line change, Ola Johansson and I were the same age when we had children – I had to go to social services and sign some papers after the child was born. I don't think you should have to wait until the baby is born when the investigation consists of signing a paper. Then you can do it before the child is born, so that the child can have his father at birth. I do not quite understand what Ola Johansson is referring to when he says that it is inconsistent. When it comes to the strengthened supervision of the religions, it is of course the religions that do not comply with Swedish law that one wants to access. It may not be so likely that the Church of Sweden belongs to the religions that do not comply with Swedish law. I hope that the Swedish Church complies with Swedish law. I sit in the council myself, and I would be very upset if the Swedish Church did not comply with the Swedish law. But what denominations do the Center Party want to exempt and not check if control is tightened? Is it that some religions should be allowed to, so to speak, thumb a little bit on the rules and that it is a little less careful that they follow Swedish law? What religions are they?
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-295	Mr President, I would like to We can dwell on this. What a memory Mikael Eskilandersson has! He even remembers when both he and I had children. But we are not married, which may well be due to age. The very point lies in the way that Mikael Eskilandersson describes in the line shift the difference between what he considers to be a trusted religion and what he prejudicedly expresses as something else. In order to supervise religious communities, it must apply to all religions. My point is that equality should apply before the law. If supervision is required, it must be on the basis of criminal acts being committed. We start by introducing a law, and when a law is broken, it is the duty of every citizen to report the crime in order to ensure that it is tried. To point out in advance a religious community and claim that special supervision is required for this, as a religious person, I still consider a gross exaggeration and an attack on all believing people in Sweden.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-298	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 7 and 9. All children should be entitled to their childhood, and all people should have the right to choose their partner. No child should be forced to marry and miss out on a normal upbringing with studies, friends and a rich leisure time. That the best interests of the child should always come first is laid down in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which the government now wants to make Swedish law. That is a good thing, but then we need to strengthen the current legislation in a number of areas. One such area concerns the issue of child marriage. It is mainly young girls who are married to adult men, but also boys are subjected to forced marriages. Swedish society should protect all children, and child marriage is not acceptable in any form. In 2014, protection against forced marriages and child marriages was strengthened. The amendment was a step in the right direction and represented a more restrictive approach. However, it is still possible in exceptional cases to recognise such marriages in Sweden, and in connection with the amendment of the law it was only the Left Party that proposed that the possibility of recognising child marriage should be completely blocked. There is also no reservation from the Swedish Democrats, which you could get the impression of when you heard Mikael Eskilandersson's speech. The Finnish Immigration Service has investigated how asylum seekers married children are received in Sweden, and there were 132 cases of child marriage in the reception system. In the report Are you married? The Finnish Immigration Service notes that the legal control that exists for processing is not always followed, that there is no support for the administrators and that there is no specific standard for handling children who are married. Mr President, I would like to Against this background, it is very gratifying that the government is now prepared to tighten up legislation on child marriage. I am pleased that we in the Civil Committee fully agree to propose an announcement in which the Parliament calls on the Government to return to Parliament as soon as possible with legislative proposals to further limit the possibility of, in exceptional cases, recognising child and forced marriages. Multiple marriages, or polygamous marriages, are not allowed in Sweden. It is therefore worrying that as many as 300 people are registered in the population register as married to more than one person. Against this background, it is a good thing that the committee is proposing an announcement on this issue too. It is that the Government should analyse what is behind this and that it is asked to consider whether there is a need to clarify the legislation further, in order to ensure that polygamous marriages are not recognised in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Those who, due to illness or age, need the help of society to take care of their finances, manage their property or provide for their person must be able to trust that the system really works. Those who need a good man or a deputy are, of course, totally dependent on them, and then it is crucial that the deputies are honest and do their job and that the supervision of the administration is sufficient. Unfortunately, we have seen that the system of good men and managers is lacking in a number of areas, although some improvements have been made in recent years. It is therefore a good thing that the committee agrees to propose an announcement on this issue as well. The Civil Committee proposes that the announcement should include, among other things, an invitation to the government to follow up the functioning of the legislation in this area, with a view to improving the system. The mission provides a broad mandate and mentions, among other things, the need for training. It is very important that we receive better education not only from good men and stewards but also from transferers, and it should be equal throughout the country. It is also important to establish a public representation register, a national form system and a uniform accounting system. However, it is also important to review the possibility of strengthening the legal protection of those who have good men or deputies by introducing a municipal joint and several claim for damages for property offences committed by a deputy against the principal in the framework of his or her mandate. Unfortunately, it has happened on a number of occasions, although it is not common, that good men have embezzled money for those they were set to protect. Mr President, I would like to In order to maintain confidence in the system, it is reasonable for there to be an ultimate safety net in the form of compensation which can compensate the individual in whole or in part for damage caused by the deputy. The individual who suffers from embezzlement or otherwise mismanagement of the principal's finances is today referred to claiming compensation from the deputy himself. Even if compensation is awarded to the individual, it is not unusual for the deputy to have no assets, which means that in practice the individual has no real opportunity to obtain compensation for damage caused by the deputy. An individual who, for various reasons, receives support from society should not, of course, suffer financial damage from it, and therefore the Left Party believes that legal protection needs to be improved. Provision should be made for increased possibilities for the principal to obtain compensation for damage caused by a deputy. Mr President, I would like to Since 2005, women living in same-sex relationships can receive health care assistance to have children through assisted conception. It was a much-awaited reform. However, it is not reasonable that the mother who is married to a woman has to go through a complicated and time-consuming process to get parenthood registered in court. Instead, if the mother is married to a man, he will automatically be registered as the child's parent after birth. It should be obvious that the same rules apply regardless of whether the woman giving birth is married to a woman or a man. In the study on parenthood in assisted reproduction, it was proposed to regulate it in the same way for same-sex couples as for divorced couples. The unjustified discrimination that prevails today must cease, and legislation must become gender-neutral in relation to parenthood. Mr President, I would like to Today's family law legislation is largely based on heteronormative notions of what a family looks like, and it contains many provisions and assumptions related to gender and sexuality. In addition, many provisions are specifically linked to the mother – who is always assumed to be a woman – and motherhood, and to the father – who is always assumed to be a man – and paternity. Today, the reality is different. A family may consist of two mothers or two fathers, or only a mother or a father. It is high time to adapt legislation to reality. The Left Party believes that constitutions containing the concepts are to be changed so that they are replaced by the word. Legislation must be based on gender neutrality. This makes the concept of a parent a more accurate and understandable one. Mr President, I would like to In a large study from 2016 on the life situation of transgender people, it turned out that one in three transgender people had considered killing themselves in the last year. Every other trans person had been subjected to harassment during the last three months and had therefore avoided daily activities due to fear of discrimination. Sweden is still a country where the price is high for those who challenge norms about gender and gender oppression. The standards are also visible in the legislation. Sweden is a country with archaic rules that create problems in transgender everyday life, cement conservative norms and create ill-health. It is high time to change this. Of course, people who have changed their gender status want it to be visible in different forms of identity documents. Today, it is a problem that these people cannot have their name identity changed retroactively in certain documents, such as grades and employment certificates. They are thus forced to display acts with the old gender identity, which can mean that they end up in very uncomfortable situations and are at risk of being treated offensively and discriminatoryly. The Left Party believes it is important for schools, colleges and other social institutions to issue new certificates on the basis of the new gender status at the request of the individual. The Government therefore urgently wishes to return to the Riksdag with proposals for legislation or take other measures to ensure that a person who has changed name identity or personal identity number can have this information changed retroactively. Mr President, I would like to In several EU Member States discrimination against LGBT people is still widespread. However, in a number of areas concrete initiatives can be taken to combat such discrimination. For example, a same-sex marriage concluded in one Member State should be valid throughout Europe. It is unreasonable for a couple who have married in Sweden to become unlawful if they choose to move to one of the countries that today do not recognise same-sex marriages. The Left Party therefore believes that the government should work within the EU to ensure that same-sex marriages entered into in one Member State are valid throughout the Union.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-321	Mr President, I would like to On behalf of the Liberals, I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 9 on parenthood in assisted reproduction. For time winning, the Liberals do not agree to our other three reservations, but of course we fully support them too. They deal with the right of marriage in the case of division of property, the register of wills at the Swedish Tax Agency and the electronic signing of documents by authorities. Individual man is the starting point of the Liberals. The goal is her freedom and her life chances. Every human being is unique and must, regardless of his background, talent or strength, have opportunities to develop. Man is endowed with reason, feeling, conscience and responsibility. We all have the right to life, the right to freedom and the right to search for happiness. At the same time, we all have a responsibility for the fact that these rights belong to each of us. Liberals regard all people as equals, but not equal. Everyone should have equal opportunities to make their own life choices and develop as independent individuals. Differences resulting from people's free elections should not be evened out by politicians. Liberal justice is about equal opportunities, not equal results. The social liberal mission is to improve the life chances of each individual by equalising the conditions beyond the individual's own control. Every individual has the right to knowledge and basic economic and social security. In a dynamic economy, development and prosperity are created by increasing people's opportunities. Politics should prioritise increasing freedom for those with the least freedom – this is our starting point. It is against this background that Iberal family law is shaped. The report contains three announcements and one reservation to which we call for approval, and I would like to highlight these points in particular here. Firstly, I would like to say something about banning child marriage. The former gender equality minister Nyamko Sabuni wrote already in 2006 The girls we are betraying, which I have with me here today. It is a text that I warmly recommend to all Socialist and environmental-partisan Members of Parliament. They have betrayed the girls in Sweden who have the least freedom. I would also like to address the Swedish Democrats, who have said here that they were the first on the ball on these issues. I don't know what world they live in – perhaps on Mars – but here on earth it was actually the Liberals and Nyamko Sabuni who were driving these issues to begin with. It was Jan Björklund who was out talking about child marriage in January 2016. It was not Jimmie Åkesson, some Swedish Democrat or some Social Democrat, but it was Liberals Jan Björklund who was taking the debate. It was also Jan Björklund who, a few months ago, demanded that we stop child marriages and that the red-green government should back off and do something about it. In the Migration Agency's report Are you married? From March 2016, 132 cases of married girls arrived in Sweden. It was also announced that the number of darkness is large – you didn't know how many are actually involved. Instead of being saved, most of the girls were left with the grown men. The Liberals were already informed that this was happening in the autumn of 2015, when the migration situation was at its toughest. In February 2016, the Minister of Migration promised an investigation, but in a whole year nothing happened, despite the distress calls of his own authority. The girls remained with the adult men, often with grants and support from the municipalities. Then my question is: where have you been in the Social Democrats this year? Why haven't you done anything? Only when we in the Liberals launched an initiative here in Parliament – when we simply had enough – did the Red-Green Government decide to quickly investigate a total ban on child marriage. This happened incredibly late. You reacted incredibly slowly, and you actually betrayed these girls. You didn't do anything about it. I am proud that the Liberals have now got this announcement through, with the support of the whole committee. We need to save these girls. We need to change the law now, and we need to remove these girls from these men and from the home they share with them. We in the Liberals will continue to be the driving force to ensure that the ban becomes a reality. We will also continue to drive girls who now live in child marriages with older men to be supported by society. The Liberals do not intend to betray these girls, as the Social Democrats and the Green Party have done for a whole year. The second point concerns polygamy. Multiple marriages are incompatible with the liberal view of marriage and gender equality. We in the Liberals therefore want it to continue to be illegal in Sweden to enter into polygamy. Yet there are almost 300 cases of bigami and polygamy registered with the Swedish Tax Agency. We in the Liberals regard this as totally unacceptable. It is the Liberals' view that polygamy should not be recognised in Sweden, regardless of whether these have been concluded before or after they came to Sweden. Nor should the authorities carry out simple summary tests and then claim that it does not imply recognition to register people as married to several persons. People in Sweden believe that they are married if they are registered as married with the Swedish Tax Agency. In the opinion of the Liberals, this is contrary to the law's demands for gender equality. These include the family law principle of equal treatment of spouses and the requirement for no one to be disadvantaged on grounds of sex, as expressed in the European Convention. In our opinion, this is also contrary to public policy. The Liberals therefore welcome the announcement today to investigate the recognition of polygamy. We're prepared to strengthen the law to stop polygamy if the investigation proves it's necessary. I would also like to pay tribute to the Moderates, who are the party that has raised the issue here in the Swedish Parliament. The third point concerns the right to assisted reproduction. Liberals believe that the unjustified discrimination that currently prevails between couples who have had children through assisted conception must be changed. Family legislation must be gender neutral and regulated so that it gives same-sex couples the same rights as others. Since 2005, women living in same-sex relationships can receive health care assistance in having children through assisted conception. In these cases, the same-sex partner of the woman who gives birth becomes – provided she has consented to the treatment – the other legal parent of the child, by confirming this in the same way as a man who lives with a woman who gives birth. If the mother is married to a man, he will automatically be registered as the child's parent after birth, but if the mother is married to a woman instead, she will have to undergo a complicated, time-consuming and degrading process in order for parenthood to be registered in court. It is totally unreasonable to maintain a system that disadvantages same-sex couples, and that is why we will be calling for our reservation to be accepted. I wonder why the Social Democrats and the Green Party do not support these movements in the Swedish Parliament, and I would like them to respond to this in their speeches here today. The fourth point concerns a comprehensive review of the transfer of custody, goodsmanship and management system. Over a period of years, shortcomings in the supervision of good men and stewards have been identified at regular intervals. Persons who are unable to handle their affairs have the right to a well-functioning and legally secure system. It is they who most need freedom and support to receive support. There are clear signs that the system is failing and that it is unequal throughout the country. The Liberals therefore consider that there is a need for a complete overhaul of the system of municipal guardians, good men and trustees. The need for this review has become even more evident in the case of unaccompanied children and young people. They should be assigned to a good man right away. As the Center Party and many others have already mentioned this in this House today, I will not spend any more time on this. With regard to liberal family law, I would like to emphasise that it is those who have the least freedom who need the most support from the state. This is what we Liberals intend to continue to work for here in the Swedish Parliament.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-348	Mr President, I would like to As we heard here, the Liberals point out that they were indeed ahead of the Swedish Democrats on this issue. The Swedish Democrats' proposal in 2015 was to remove all pys valves that exist when it comes to child marriage. The Liberals, the People's Party or whatever the party was then voted against. It is possible to produce the result of the vote from the Riksdag, so you can see how we voted. Liberals point out that then they were out talking about this. But is it only mouthstorms that count? Isn't it how we vote here in Parliament that matters? On 4 March 2015, the Liberals did not agree with the Swedish Democrats that it needed to be removed some hand valves. On the contrary, they sat quietly and did not mention the question at all, what I remember, despite the fact that the problem was clear even before then. Swedish Television, Swedish Radio, Aftonbladet and Avpixlat had written that it was registered married from 15 years onwards, so it was widely known. I do not therefore understand how one can now suddenly claim that it was the Liberals who were the first, while voting against our proposal in Parliament.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-351	Mr President, I would like to I will tell Mikael Eskilandersson a little about how it works in Swedish politics. When you want power in Sweden you usually share power with other parties, but no one wants to sit with you in a government because you are fundamentally an unserious and racist party. Then let me get to the way it works. For many years now, since Nyamko Sabuni wrote the book The Girls We Fail, the Liberals have been driving the issue of banning all kinds of child marriages. There were holes in the legislation that the Alliance inherited from the former Red-Green Government. On the Liberal side, we fought hard to get a comprehensive ban – so did other parties in the Alliance – but there was no consensus on the issue. But what the Liberals got through in 2014 was a strong improvement in legislation. We did not agree, but in a government one must be able to compromise. I am proud and pleased with the changes we made in 2014. But that was not enough, and we stressed that already then. We also stressed this in the Swedish Parliament when we later entered into opposition, and we have exercised on these issues. But we certainly do not intend to cooperate with a party that refers to Avpixlat as a source of why we should do things. Avpixlat is a racist site online, where I have among other things been called baboon, so I don't really understand why you think it is a good basis to use when shaping politics. I think you should listen to the experts. The experts are called GAPF and neither whore nor hive. It also happens that our former Minister for Gender Equality Nyamko Sabuni is. She has written the book The Girls we fail and raised these questions when you did not even exist in the Swedish Parliament. You were probably in some kind of basement and spread racist propaganda back then. Let us be truthful about how politics works in real life. We wanted these changes all the time. But a government had to compromise, and what we got through in 2014 was very good.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-356	Mr President, I would like to That's too bad, isn't it? Wasn't it? Here we talk in the Swedish Parliament about how it works in politics. The most important task we have as Members of Parliament is to sit and vote in favour of or against the proposals put forward. In 2015, there was not even a proposal from the Liberals to remove the hand valves. The Liberals' representatives say that it was only Avpixlat and such hate sites that had told this, but if he had listened to what I said, he would have understood that it was also Swedish Television, Swedish Radio and Aftonbladet. Are SVT and Swedish Radio also hate sites, because they are not credible sources? Nyamko Sabuni and what she may have said at one time is apparently more credible than what Swedish Radio or Swedish Television reported just before the debate in 2015. It was quite clear that there was no proposal from the Liberals or any other alliance party. That is why we simply had to lower the proposals of the Swedish Democrats and then put forward our own proposals which were exactly the same. This delayed the whole question for two years. It's clear to anyone who's the least familiar. Then you can always throw yourself with mouthstorms, accusations and various epithets. But the fact remains: the Liberals had no proposal in 2015 and had to go back and copy SD's proposal and put it before the House. They then received support for it.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-360	Mr President, I would like to It is a bit interesting that the Swedish Democrats stand here and defend Swedish Radio and Swedish Television. You're usually the first to criticize them, while you normally celebrate Avpixlat. Basically, the Liberals have been driving and held this view during all the years since Nyamko Sabuni entered Swedish politics. Perhaps our failure to exercise in 2014 was due to the fact that we left the government and needed to reformulate our policy. I was a new member of the Swedish Parliament in 2014 and perhaps could not cover all areas. But that we were clear on this issue from day one, there is no doubt about it. Neither can anyone doubt that you are cloudy in the matter from day one. You're not doing this because you want the best for these people, because you don't want them to come here at all. You don't want to help other people. On the Liberal side, we are clear that we want a refugee policy with both the heart and the brain, and we want people who come here to have freedom. You have a policy of punishing people from my background. And you support Avpixlat, including through your MPs, who call other Members in here different kinds of ugly things all the time. There is no doubt in Sweden that the Liberals are a party that stands up for vulnerable girls and especially when it comes to honour-related violence and oppression. There is no other party in the Swedish parliament that does so with the same power as the Liberals. You can paint a picture of how I didn't do my job in 2014. No, maybe I didn't do a good enough job then, absolutely. But to say that the Liberals are not behind this is just ridiculous. There is no one with knowledge of the matter who could doubt it at all. Call the GAPF or neither the whore nor the hood and ask which party works best with these questions! It is not the Swedish Democrats, they will say. They'll laugh in your face if you say so. It is the Liberals who have been driving these issues all these years and will continue to be, while you will be sitting here whining in Parliament.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-367	Mr President, I would like to Families can look very different. About a third of Swedish children today live in a kind of family that is different from the traditional nuclear family. You can live with a single parent or in a rainbow family or star family. A majority of children born today are born by a non - married parent. Family situations may be different today because standards have changed. Our society today allows people to choose their own way of life to a greater extent than before. As the world evolves, politics needs to be involved in and follow developments and make decisions. This may be particularly evident in the area of family law. The development demands us to have modern legislation that is adapted for the new families and new conditions and that we have laws and rules that make things easier for people, for how we make laws and provide conditions is about a way of shaping society and meeting people. Family law shall be based on the best interests of the child and the equal rights and opportunities of all people, regardless of gender and sexual orientation. Among other things, the decision to grant persons of the same sex the same right to marry as two persons of different sex was an important decision. That may seem obvious. As a social democrat, I am convinced of the importance of the equal value and right of all people, which also means the right to love and share one's life with the one you want. It is also important that society continues to develop in order to provide people with equal opportunities. It is especially important to give children the opportunity to grow up safely, regardless of the family in which they grow up. Mr President, I would like to Many have expressed the desire to simplify and modernise matters relating to parenthood, if the parents are not married when they wait and have children together. The question of a presumption of parenthood that also includes the partner in a same-sex couple is the next step, a gender-neutral presumption of parenthood. I am therefore pleased that the Government has decided to review the rules of the Parental Code on parenthood – this in order to have a more equal and modern legislation that is just adapted to the child and its family. The reason why this is important is not only to simplify but also to avoid sad cases where a newborn child is without a guardian. Mr President, I would like to The number of national adoptions is approximately 350 per year. The most common form is related adoption, also known as stepchildren's adoption, but there are also cases where family homes adopt a child who has been placed there for a longer period of time. Another option for family homes is to transfer custody to the family home parents, which the social welfare board will consider when a child has been placed in the same family home for more than three years. Individual assessments need to be made of what is best for the individual child in order to create a safe upbringing. Right now, an investigation is being prepared into more modern adoption rules at the Government Office. That's good. Mr President, I would like to Many in our society have the will but not the ability to take care of everything that is needed to cope with everyday life. You can get a deputy in the form of a good man or steward if you are in any way prevented from guarding your rights or taking care of yourself and your affairs. The opportunity to get a good man or manager is important for all people in Sweden to have equal rights regardless of their ability. Since a good man or manager is crucial to the individual's well-being and since it has been difficult to recruit good men or managers, a review of the function is needed. Society is also more complex today. A specific support and training structure therefore needs to be developed. Unfortunately, in a number of cases involving deputies, there have been irregularities, which have also been highlighted in the media. Although the number is relatively small, it is not acceptable. Therefore, a review is needed to review existing laws and to see if further efforts are needed to strengthen supervision. Cooperation is also important in this regard. A review of the legislation is therefore welcome and the overall review of the system. Mr President, I would like to We do not know the exact number of child marriages in the world. Many are not registered, and some are also concluded informally. However, according to one estimate, 14 million children around the world are involved in marriage each year. For many, marriage is an obstacle to further education but, above all, health risks associated with pregnancy and childbirth. Child marriage is a violation of children's rights and is contrary to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Although most governments in the world have signed this, child marriage still exists around the world. In Sweden there is a broad consensus in the condemnation of child marriage. Child marriage and forced marriage are not in the best interests of the child and cause many difficulties for the children and young people affected. Children should not be married; children should be children. No one should be forced into marriage. The government takes the work against forced marriage and child marriage very seriously, and a number of efforts have already been made. Now we also agree on an announcement to review legislation and follow up and evaluate to further limit the possibility of child and forced marriages. Mr President, I would like to Family law touches many very closely. I often think of the women and men I have met who throughout their lives have fought for the right to create their lives according to their own conditions. I have met older people who have been happy for their children's or grandchildren's opportunity to give birth without being married, which, a century ago, meant great difficulties for both mother and child. I have met people who have described happiness in having the opportunity to live with the person they have chosen, regardless of gender or sexual orientation. Family law, however, requires legislation that is in line with time. Let us therefore move forward and develop a family policy for the future. I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-390	Mr President, I would like to I find it gratifying and fascinating that the alliance parties in as many as four areas have led the government parties to follow our line and contribute to four announcements. That's good. However, with regard to the point concerning the possibility of couples becoming parents at assisted conception, there is a reservation from three of the alliance parties and the Left Party. It is good that we have a cross-block consensus on these issues. However, it is extremely surprising that the government parties are not following this very line. In view of everything that is said and stated in this debate, it should be urgent to make such a statement in this regard too. For a long time, a mother who is married to a man automatically becomes a parent. We have also discussed in the past the possibility of a common-law couple being presumed to be parents even before the child is born. However, in a situation where people undergo a treatment that means that they can have a child together, they need, although they both agree and consider themselves parents, to go through a complicated process in order for both to be presumed to be parents, if the treatment has been carried out legally in Sweden. Why is it that the government parties do not want to accommodate us on this particular point? It should, of course, be urgent for all people to understand this.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-395	Mr President, I would like to I also think that this is an important issue. For children born through assisted conception, it is of course important that parenthood works and is in the best interests of the child. Let me make it clear that, with regard to assisted reproduction, the issue we are now talking about is not included in the Swedish health care system and the support it receives. I understood, however, that the issue of parenthood in assisted fertilization was part of the review that the government told us about last Friday.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-397	Mr President, I would like to I thank Eva Lindh for her reply. From what the government representatives say on this issue, it is clear that we are in agreement on the matter. When the Minister is pressed by questions that have been asked, he promises to return in his reply, and apparently an investigation has been presented this week. It should then be natural to allow the parties behind this to help to make the point that it is urgent that this issue should move forward. I find it very strange that there is not a great deal of agreement in this particular case when it does so in other areas, and I would like to highlight that. I still wonder why we do not agree with these very ambitions, Eva Lindh.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-402	Mr President, I would like to We have a deal. As I said, this is an important issue. I knew that the government would come up with an investigation, so when the report was dealt with in committee and when we discussed how we would take a position on the issues, we did so knowing that an investigation was under way. We were pleased with that. I look forward to the investigation and what it will present in the future.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-405	Mr President, audiences and any viewers and listeners! The red-green feminist government works long-term to improve Sweden and the world in all policy areas. As the Green Party's full member of the Civil Committee is prevented from attending here today, I have jumped in as a substitute for the debate on the report, if you ask in committee. The Committee on Civil Liberties's report contains a large number of important and interesting issues which affect all citizens, as has already been pointed out here, although many do not reflect on it. There are, for example, a number of different aspects of marriage and marriage issues, issues of divorce and division of property, paternity issues, adoption and custody issues and also an exciting issue that was new to me, namely gender neutral constitutions, which was very interesting to read about. The report is a motion report which deals with some 190 different requests from the last two general periods of exercise, so it is no wonder that most things from birth to the final stage of life are dealt with. I also saw that the old question of children of specialities is included. It is very much about the succession rights of surviving spouses and has been present in the past. Mr President, I would like to Almost a year ago, on 26 May 2016, the Committee on Civil Liberties organised a public hearing on the subject of family law is in line with time. That's a very good name for a hearing. Some of the issues raised in the report were debated during this hearing by five legally experienced people from different backgrounds. As a little outsider, after looking at the material, I can only say that the committee has worked thoroughly on the report on family law issues. Given that the report contains 34 points of decision, it may not be appropriate to complain that these have led to 17 reservations. Those of you who have listened have heard that the committee has nevertheless been fairly agreed. We live in a time of great challenges. The basic conditions for the family are threatened. The level of climate gases in the earth's atmosphere has never been as high as today. Biodiversity is under threat, and the destruction of untouched areas on the planet continues. The food soil is washed out into the oceans in places where torrential rains have become common. In other places on the planet, where the drought has taken over, the earth blows into the oceans. The main grain sheds for the family supply are salted up as the seawater slowly penetrates river delta areas. In a global perspective, our questions about family policy may sometimes feel negligible, but we must never forget that even in Sweden the family's conditions are affected by what is happening on the whole planet. When societies are threatened, citizens and politicians tend to be more likely to join forces and reach consensus. It is a political word which is a rewrite of a compromise in which there is fairly agreement and agreement on an issue. When I read the report, I thought, despite the 17 reservations, that it is a small sign of such a tendency towards consensus in Swedish politics. The report contains four declarations on which the committee agrees. For those of you who have not listened to a parliamentary debate before, I just want to say that when the Riksdag makes an announcement, it is usually seen as something important. It is a call or actually a mission to the government. For us in this House this is usually one of the highlights – a little hot stuff that can give headlines in the newspapers. The whole committee is therefore behind the four announcements, and that is what I was referring to when I spoke of a slight tendency in committee towards consensus. It is not customary for the parliamentary groups of the government parties to support announcements to the government. Either this is a sign of the times, or it is a natural consequence of having a feminist government seeking broad agreements on as many issues as possible. The announcements are about child marriage, polygamy, custody investigations and good men and stewards. Since I have not been involved in the preparation of the committee's report, but have been borrowed for this debate alone, I do not intend to go into too much depth in each of the various dossiers, because then there is a risk that I will be making a fool of myself. My knowledge is not so deep in this area anymore; you forget quite quickly when you change committees. The issue of child marriage is therefore a question of the government being given a mandate to return to Parliament with a bill to further limit the possibilities that currently exist in the law to recognise children's marriages and forced marriages in exceptional cases. The government is already working to make the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law in order to further strengthen the children's legal position. We had a seminar on this here in Parliament today in the morning – one of all the breakfast seminars organised here. I may find it a little strange that the possibility exists. The basic principle is that children are children until they turn 18. I think the discussion that has been here today about who was first and so on feels a little strange. I have acquaintances who have devoted themselves to genealogy, so I know that child marriage has been banned for over a hundred years but that there have been exceptions. I have seen letters where underage children wrote to the king a hundred years ago because the girl got pregnant and they wanted to keep the child. Then the king had the opportunity to allow them to marry even though they were not 18 years old to keep the child. This may be one thing to think about. There is a long, at least more than one hundred years of experience in our country that there may be conditions, conditions and situations that can be taken into account when discussing child marriages. Family law has developed a lot, but marriage may still not be concluded before the 18th anniversary of the general acquis. In recent years, a large number of people have come to Sweden, and they have brought with them another culture where the norms that have formed the basis of our approach are not obvious, although there has been an opportunity for child marriage before the age of 18 in our country. I think that is why this issue has gained new topicality, but with a slightly different content. I mentioned the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and our commitment under this Convention is difficult to reconcile with the fact that more and more children in our country live as married, although they have a long way to go until the 18th anniversary. The extent to which these marriages have been voluntary is of course extremely difficult to determine, but I find this really quite uninteresting because the basic principle is that no one under 18 should live as a married person in Sweden, at least not without very special reasons. The government has appointed an investigator to look at how this problem can be dealt with, so the work is as I understand it is underway. The committee has also set a date for expecting the government to return to Parliament with proposals on this issue. That is a good thing, because we must ensure the rights of children to live as children. We must take this seriously if we are to claim that we live up to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Mr President, I would like to We have heard here today that over 300 people live in Sweden as married to more than one person, which is also not in accordance with the standards we have in Sweden as they are expressed in law. Multiple marriages are actually criminalized in Sweden. Here, too, the committee believes that the government should review how our legislation may need to be adjusted in order to ensure that the applicable law is not undermined in any way. I cannot help commenting on the fact that I find it a little strange that we can have registrations that are allowed but that report something that is contrary to the law. But I'm sure there's a reason for that. Now I have not been able to understand all the details of the committee's reasoning on the third announcement. But I understand that this is about taking advantage of what emerged when evaluating the 2006 custody reform in the 2014 custody investigation. What I can read about is that the committee has focused on the fact that children get caught up in custody disputes. I can only say that I think it is very good if this announcement now has the effect that it is quicker to make the perspective of children's rights more visible. As I said, we are in the process of getting the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Sweden as a law. That process will certainly also help to improve this. This is a development in the right direction. The fourth announcement is about guardians, good men and stewards. I have memories that this has been a long drive before. There are a great many Members who have exercised around this. I can say that I actually have a motion there that I had forgotten about. The shortcomings in the system of good men and stewards have been on the table very many times. They occasionally appear as scandals on television and can be quite hair-traveling, I think. It is very good that the government has now been given a very broad mandate – as I understand the wording – to look at this problem. Even there they have already been started. Since I am not a member of the committee, I shall not go into so many of the reservations and discuss them, as some others have done, because I have not really got into them. But I would like to comment on something that I find interesting. There is no reservation in this area, but I would still like to say something about the issue of children in particular. When I read the committee hearing of May 2016, I find it striking how extremely difficult we have to weigh the disadvantages and advantages of these conflicts between the parties. It presents some different models for how to tackle this with what is fair when inheritance is to be distributed among parties with different statuses. However, on the basis of that report, I also believe that one can question whether there really is justice in such situations. I know that the recurring has been exercised about this over the years. I believe that this is not just about the situation of the surviving spouse. In fact, it can also apply to the husband's situation. But then it is also the case that this is increasingly about conflicts between breast heirs and children of different origins, conflicts that can be lifelong and extremely sad. With the new family structures that we now have, I can imagine that in the future we will also have conflicts between children from different specialities in our star families and whatever we call them. With regard to this problem, I really thought that your hearing gave an answer, namely that, at least on this issue, family law is not in line with time, Mr President. I call for the 17 reservations to be rejected and for the proposal contained in the report to be approved.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-432	Mr President, I would like to How many wills are not revealed? Of course, we can't know that yet. The will is not just for rich people to distribute the assets when they pass away. The wills are for all people who want to facilitate themselves and their remnants and make the process of allocating the resources as simple as possible. This will avoid possible family feuds. Today, in Sweden, we lack a national government register of wills. There are in itself many private options, but these are often linked to some funeral home or to some company that wants to make money storing the will. An independent voluntary register for the management of wills should be preferable, as these are very important documents of value. This can range from insignificant values to values in the multi-million-dollar class, such as properties, forests, companies, shares and other securities. The list can be made long, as you can hear. There is a demand for a state will register, since in a number of cases it has not been done properly or wills have disappeared. Many believe that copying the will and handing out copies to loved ones is enough. But it doesn't. It is only the original test that is set. This voluntary register must be in order for the individual to ensure that his will does not disappear or is never found. We Swedish democrats were the first to raise the issue in a committee motion after I myself had raised an individual motion on the matter. You in the congregation know that this can be done during the general exercise period. It is now gratifying that other parties in this Chamber, Mr President, have recognised the need for a state register.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-436	Mr President, I would like to It is not that there are any major differences of opinion in what different parties here in the Swedish Parliament think about what is called consular emergency preparedness. On the contrary, the differences are so small that there would probably not have been a debate at all today if it had applied to almost any other matter. But behind the rather technical and dry heading Consular crisis preparedness hides important issues that ultimately relate to Swedish citizens' opportunities to get help if they are in another part of the world and where they end up in the midst of a crisis or disaster. Mr President, I would like to It is not to debate for or against anything that I have asked to speak today. Instead, when something unforeseen happens, the issue of consular emergency preparedness is important. Ultimately, it can even be vital. These are issues of obligations and rights that are important to know about for a Swedish citizen travelling abroad. I am not doing this to debate in the first place, but mostly to inform. If you are travelling abroad, it is important to know that you have a far-reaching responsibility of your own to have travel insurance and other protection in the event of illness, accident or, in the worst case, death. Everyone travelling abroad has their own responsibility to inform themselves before the trip about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' travel recommendations for the country in question. If the Ministry of Foreign Affairs advises against travelling to the country in question, normal travel insurance does not apply. If you have booked a trip you can in some cases get back what you paid for. A travel advice also means that you cannot expect help from Swedish authorities to get out of the country if the situation so requires. More information on obligations and rights in this case can be found on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' website in the Department of Foreign Affairs' travel information. If you are a Swedish citizen abroad and there is a major crisis or disaster, according to a law that became applicable in its current form on 1 August 2010 you have the right to receive help from Swedish authorities. But exactly what is a major crisis or disaster is not stated in the legal text. That it is not done is because it is always difficult to predict in advance exactly what can happen. Had there been precise regulations in the legal text of what counts, it could in fact constitute undesirable limitations in the possibilities of offering help. The individual, as I pointed out earlier in this speech, has a fundamental responsibility for his own safety. The responsibility of the state comes only after that. This means that a state disaster response should only be carried out if the assistance needs cannot be met by other means, for example through authorities in the affected country or through travel or insurance companies. In order for Sweden to be able to help Swedish citizens, the state must have an organisation and a readiness to intervene and support Swedes in crises and disasters abroad. This is the preparedness and organisation that the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed and given feedback on how it works. It has done so in an audit report sent to the government. In turn, the government has reviewed the audit report and responded to its conclusions. Here in the Swedish Parliament we are dealing with the government's letter, in this case first in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and today the issue is before the House for debate and decision. These are issues that we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs have been following closely for a long time. We have also commissioned the Riksdag's evaluation and research secretariat to carry out a follow-up of the Consular Emergency Response Act and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' travel recommendations. On 7 June last year, the evaluation and research secretariat submitted two follow-up reports to the Committee on Foreign Affairs: follow-up of consular crisis management capabilities and follow-up to the advice of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. The content and conclusions of the reports are prepared by the investigators of the Evaluation and Research Secretariat. To return to the Swedish National Audit Office's review, the purpose of the audit has been to assess whether the consular crisis preparedness organisation's ability to deal with a major crisis abroad is appropriate. These include, for example, the organisation's design and preparation for active crisis work and how the efforts are followed up so that the organisation can be better equipped for the next crisis. The starting point is that appropriate conditions create good opportunities to deal effectively with a crisis. The Swedish National Audit Office considers that the consular emergency preparedness organisation is properly organised. The assessment is based in particular on the existence of a clear division of responsibilities within the organisation, the existence of a special preparedness group at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs that is working on emergency preparedness issues on an ongoing basis and the possibility of various reinforcement resources being called in at short notice if necessary. But the Swedish National Audit Office also sees some points in the work that can be improved. What they point to is that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs should conduct annual emergency preparedness exercises, that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs should continue to develop the systematics, structure and documentation of evaluations and that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs should ensure that all emergency response officers are aware of the mission and receive adequate training. The government shares the view that emergency preparedness should be practiced every year. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has developed a model for evaluating the work of the consular unit in the context of crises. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs believes that consular basic education gives a good picture of what it means to maintain preparedness in a foreign agency. In the Foreign Affairs Committee, we welcome the work that the government has done, among other things, within the foreign administration since the entry into force of the Consular Emergency Response Act in 2010 and which has contributed to the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment that the consular emergency preparedness organisation is effective and resource efficient. But good can get better. It is therefore gratifying that the Government has taken on board the views and improvements that the Swedish National Audit Office has made. This will strengthen Swedish preparedness to assist Swedish citizens who are abroad and face a crisis or disaster. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to remind you once again of the far-reaching responsibility of our own. If you are travelling abroad you should have a valid passport, check the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' travel information about the country you are planning to go to and have travel insurance, and most home insurances include a good one. Vaccination may also be required if necessary. We can also remind you of that. If you are to stay longer in a country, you probably need special insurance. You have a duty to investigate that yourself. With that, Mr President, I would like to endorse the committee's proposal in the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report No 12 and wish all Swedes who travel abroad a pleasant and safe journey where no unforeseen event occurs.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-451	Mr President, I would like to As demonstrated by Kenneth G Forslund's speech, the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the foreign administration's ability to help Swedes abroad in major crises. The review shows that it is important for crisis management to get started as quickly as possible so that help does not delay but also so that information on what is happening reaches out. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the operational responsibility for crisis management together with the Swedish Embassy in the country concerned. Consular emergency preparedness must, of course, work in a strong position. The organisation that now exists has not previously been reviewed by any independent party. We in the committee therefore welcome the fact that the Swedish National Audit Office has carried out the audit. We have also, as Kenneth G. Forslund said, commissioned an audit through the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The audit carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office shows both the strengths and weaknesses of the system. Now it is a matter for the government, on the basis of that analysis and the recommendations, to make the necessary changes in order for us to have a consular emergency preparedness that works in practice when it is really needed. Mr President, I would like to Major deficiencies in the crisis management of the Government Office were exposed in connection with the 2004 tsunami. Since 2010, the state has a statutory responsibility for preparedness to intervene in the event of a major crisis or disaster affecting many Swedes abroad. This means, in practice, that under certain conditions the State has a responsibility to carry out a consular emergency operation abroad. Back to the report. The overall conclusion is that the consular crisis preparedness organisation is well placed to deal with consular crises and that it uses its resources effectively. However, there are a number of areas that the Swedish National Audit Office believes can be improved in order to further strengthen crisis preparedness within the foreign administration. The review shows that lessons have been learned from the experience of the tsunami. The criticism has also been taken on board. There is a clearer division of responsibilities for the crisis preparedness organisation. There are established on-call functions, and there is a special group at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs working on crisis preparedness issues. However, it is also said that many of Sweden's embassies around the world need to practice crisis management more often than they do today. As the report shows, in addition to a high level of competence and a well-adapted organisation, training and training are crucial for successful emergency preparedness work. It is of the utmost importance that the embassies practice crisis management regularly. The report shows that half of the foreign authorities did not practice at all in 2015. It is, of course, serious and needs to be addressed. The committee therefore welcomes the fact that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs intends to introduce a requirement for an annual exercise. Whether it will then be implemented at each embassy or not remains to be seen. Mr President, I would like to It is also about knowledge. The investigation shows that too few of the emergency officers in the foreign authorities believe that they live up to the regulated responsibility for preparedness. Although resources are always limited, Mr President, they must be used as efficiently as possible. It's about individual people. This responsibility applies not only to Swedish citizens, but also to all people who live in Sweden or who have a close connection with Sweden. All of these must be able to feel safe with and trust that the institutions and safety nets we have work and that there are rights that are protected. Here it is important that there is an organisation that is both trained and trained and that there is a clear division of responsibilities and priorities. As our environment has become increasingly uncertain, it is our view that the public is becoming increasingly aware of the individual's responsibility for their own security and preparedness. This applies both here at home and when you travel outside Sweden. There are, however, further efforts, not least information actions, to be carried out. We need to be better at crisis awareness. We need to better inform the population about how to prepare, as an individual, if a crisis should occur even if one were to be in another country. As a Swede or as someone who has a close connection to Sweden – you don't even need to live in Sweden – you should know what rights and obligations you have. This applies, as I said, wherever you are. Mr President, I would like to The committee also welcomes the government's statement that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs will develop the system of evaluation in terms of training, exercises and also regional meetings so that we get a consular emergency preparedness that lives up to the name. Mr President, I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-463	Mr President, I would like to Civil society is an activity, an ongoing social phenomenon or how to explain what is extensive and important in Sweden. Civil society is everything from the small housing association, bridge club or art club in the area where we live to the large organizations and associations that operate both nationally and internationally: Red Cross, Save the Children, political parties, religious communities and others. Many of these have their own employees. Civil society spans a wide spectrum – large and small, wide and narrow. There are around 200,000 compounds. Civil society preserves and reflects our democratic society and is a guarantor of our democratic values and the equal value of people. It gives participation to people, and it contributes to the development of society and to everyone's well-being and woe. Today we are debating the Culture Committee's report No 4. My colleague, Mrs Quicklund, will later talk about sport, which is a large part of civil society. Several studies are under way on how to strengthen the freedom and specificity of civil society organisations. It is probably so important, but it is also important to look at the obstacles that exist for civil society. I am thinking mainly of the regulation that can sometimes arise when non-profit associations are treated as private profit-making activities. There are also other obstacles. We Moderates look forward to the letter from the government coming to the turn of the year 2017/18 with proposals based on the Palett report for a strengthened civil society. Civil society has also played and plays an important role in integration. The Alliance believes that in order to deepen and improve integration, it is important to strengthen cooperation between civil society and publicly funded welfare. A clear policy is important here. Without the power of civil society, Sweden would not have been able to receive the refugees who came here in autumn 2015. Mr President, I would like to We also believe that in the future it is important for civil society and society's core activities to be strengthened. We look forward to the Welfare Investigation's proposal on the interaction between ideas-based organisations and the public sector, as civil society is actively contributing to our well-being today. The Alliance wants to further strengthen cooperation between the jointly funded welfare and non-profit organisations. This is an important and priority area for us. But it requires clear political signals. Under the alliance government, cooperation between the public sector and civil society was deepened, including through agreements in the fields of integration and social policy. The Alliance parties believe that the government should now make use of the experience gained over these years and clearly state that the focus on cooperation remains firm. Another vast part of civil society is the religions. Many new religions and religions exist in our society today. It's a fortune. But there are religious beliefs that transform into religious fanaticism and where beliefs are considered to be above democratic values and principles. The rights and freedoms of individuals are affected. This is a problem that is growing not only in Sweden but throughout Europe. It is important that all religions respect and abide by the democratic values on which Sweden is based. It is about freedom of religion, about sharing our democratic values, about respecting equality between women and men and about LGBT rights. These are obvious rights in our secular society. The religions must also be part of the work of the whole community against violent extremism and in the preventive work against radicalisation. Here the religions have an important task in the preventive work to collaborate and increase knowledge in the work to protect democracy against extremism. The work against religious extremism must take place without encroaching on the right of all individuals to believe or not to believe. The Alliance parties believe that a review of the interaction and dialogue between religious communities and secular society and how it should be strengthened should be carried out. It is important that the focus is on the principles of democracy and human rights. The purpose of such a review of the issue is to see how interaction between religious communities and secular society can be strengthened in order to prevent and counteract anti-democratic ideas. We would like to point out that it is important to ensure that the communities of faith with which contact is established really stand behind the principles of democracy and the principles of human rights and freedoms. Mr President, I would like to I am sure that all of us in this House believe that the non-profit sector or civil society is an extremely important part of politics. Civil society educates and educates many socially involved citizens, and some of them may eventually become politicians at different levels. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to endorse reservations 18 and 19.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-475	Mr President, I would like to In this report, Mr KrU4, we are dealing with issues relating to civil society and, among other things, sport and outdoor life. One of the important parts of civil society is the community life. In order to maintain general support for public contributions to civil society, support should be allocated in a responsible manner. Beneficiaries of tax-financed aid should meet certain minimum standards of quality and social welfare. Everything else is a lack of respect for democracy and taxpayers' money. Both regulatory and supervisory frameworks should therefore be reviewed and strengthened in order to ensure that violent and non-democratic organisations are not able to receive tax-funded support. As far as sport is concerned, it plays an important role in civil society, particularly from a public health perspective. Sport and outdoor life are also of great importance for rehabilitation and provide meaningful leisure activities. Association sports, thanks to great commitment, non-profit leaders and people who are passionate about their sport, can give children and young people, above all, the opportunity to play sports, meet friends and much more. In 2009, the so-called Elite initiative was launched to strengthen the international competitiveness of Swedish sport and give us new successful sports stars and role models that can attract more children and young people to the sports movement. The initiative was an important resource addition for the sports movement's many national teams according to studies at the Centre for Sport Research. The investment was particularly high in the field of disability sport, and the coordination of the overall support for Swedish elite sport was also improved. Unfortunately, the initiative ended in 2012, and the Swedish Democrats therefore propose that support for the Elite initiative should be renewed. Mr President, I would like to Ensuring children's and young people's access to sport and physical activity is an urgent task. However, it is equally important to do the same for our elderly. We know that sport and health care can counteract many old age diseases, help prevent falls and also help to break the loneliness and social isolation that many of our elderly unfortunately suffer from. Investing in sport for the elderly is not only good for the individual, but benefits the whole of society. Studies from, among others, the Danish Ministry of Social Affairs have shown that investing in older sports is a socio-economic gain by reducing the need for care. We therefore believe that additional measures should be taken to ensure that older people have access to sport and physical activity throughout the country. In addition to sport and its importance for public health, it is also important to lift up outdoor life, as nature and outdoor life have a healing and strengthening effect on ill health. One of our greatest public health problems today is the increase in sedentary sitting, especially among children and young people. The natural relationships with movement, exercise and stay in nature are becoming fewer and the daily exercise is decreasing. To reverse this negative development requires strength, and part of it is to strengthen the position of outdoor life in society. Great opportunities to promote outdoor life throughout the Nordic region can be reached through closer cooperation with our Nordic neighbours. Nordic cooperation in this area also plays an important role in the exchange of, for example, jobs, experiences and tourism between countries. Outdoor life is also a rich and important cultural and natural heritage for the entire Nordic region. While we are proposing an increase in funding, we believe that not only financial resources are needed, but there is also a need for an overall national investment in outdoor life through more roads. With the concept of open-air activities for public health, we propose that society should take more time in more sectors than is currently the case. Proposals for green care where animals and nature are used for health and rehabilitation purposes are a way to weave outdoor life into more sectors. Another way is to raise the level of knowledge about Swedish nature and outdoor life in school among children and young people. At the same time, there is reason to strengthen the physical contact between the educational system and the Swedish nature, where Swedish Outdoor Life can play a major role with its breadth and variety around the country. In view of this, they should be given targeted resources for a national review of this in conjunction with stakeholders. Finally, the Swedish Democrats support reservations 6, 10 and 23, but for time to come we are only calling for the approval of reservations 6 and 23 in this House.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-487	Mr President, I would like to The power of civil society is strong. I experienced that not least the nights and days of the autumn of 2015 when I was at the central station in Malmö or at a transit home in Gothenburg and received people on the run who travelled on tough roads through Europe. Volunteers organized themselves there and then, and relief organizations and various denominations arranged with food, clothing, shelter, wound covering, transportation, telephones, language cafes, and much, much more. It was civil society that carried up the entire reception of refugees when the public did not accept their responsibilities. But dependence on civil society alone is not possible or even desirable. If we are to have a society that is for everyone, we must have a stronger welfare that can be trusted when many people need help. Civil society should be a complement, not the thing that carries. Mr President, I would like to Civil society issues are a broad area. I have chosen to focus here on what has to do with the sports movement and specifically on gender equality. Equality in sport is a question of democracy, resources and interests. Everyone should have the same opportunities, rights and obligations at all levels and in all areas. Equal sport is a prerequisite for successful sport development. Research as well as people's individual experiences suggest that gender equality promotes development both for organisations and individuals. Distribution has been recognised and troubled for a long time. We believe that it is unacceptable for public funds to continue to contribute to inequality. An even distribution can mean that more girls stay in sports. Today, almost 80 percent of girls between the ages of 6 and 12 are in sports, but only 29 percent of girls between the ages of 19 and 25 are still active. In addition to the need for a balanced distribution of resources, there must also be better opportunities for women in general, so that, for example, anyone who wants to train as a leader can actually train. Today, in terms of the whole world, only 7% of the trainers are women. By better including girls and women as leaders, we have a large and almost untapped resource. It is also important to have a range of management training courses aimed at persons who train and lead female athletes. The Swedish Sports Federation has a great responsibility in how resources are distributed, as well as the municipalities have a great responsibility for the equal distribution of premises and times. RF's gender equality goals are good to work towards, but unfortunately they are far too slow. Mr President, I would like to In sport, as in the rest of society, there is a strong heteronorm. This means, among other things, that everyone is presumed to be heterosexual. A report released by RF together with RFSL in 2013 shows that most LGBT people are not open with their orientation in their sport. It is an indication that in many cases the sports environment is not sufficiently open and permissive. It is destructive to constantly hide who you are and to live with a fear of the reactions of the environment if you are exposed, leading to the end of many sports. Although there have been changes in the right direction, they are few, and they are going far too slowly. Sport is largely gender-disaggregated through regulations, jargon and norms, but also through the organisation of changing rooms. Transpersons get problems because they are usually not welcome in the right dressing room. Other things that cause problems are gender coded dress rules and when the environment uses the wrong pronoun. Several transgender people who have responded to the survey want to participate in training and competition that is gender-disaggregated, but they are not allowed to participate in the right group for them. The report from RFSL and the Swedish Sports Federation revealed that it is common for transgender people that they themselves take responsibility for solving the problems resulting from gender segregation. It doesn't make any sense. Here, the National Sports Federation and the Special Sports Associations must take greater responsibility. We therefore think it would be reasonable and necessary to speed up developments in these areas. This can be done by reviewing the use of state grants to sport, increasing knowledge of LGBTQ issues and improving conditions for transgender sports but also strengthening gender equality in sport. Mr President, I would like to In 2006, the ban on professional boxing was relaxed, with the introduction of the martial arts law and the martial arts regulation. The martial arts team includes games in martial arts that allow punches, kicks or other violence to the head and means that such matches may not be organized without permission. Current legislation requires authorisation to organise competition, training or show matches in martial arts. Authorisation to organise a martial arts match may be granted only if the rules of competition and safety of the martial arts provide an acceptable level of security for the participants. For professional boxing, these national rules differ from existing international rules. This means, among other things, that it is not possible to organize major competitions, championships or title matches in Sweden. It affects the opportunities and prerequisites of sport and practitioners to develop. Many promising talents are therefore lost to other countries in order to develop and compete. The point is that for all other martial arts international rules apply, but not for professional boxing. It has now been more than ten years since the ban on professional boxing was relaxed and the martial arts law was introduced. Much has happened in the martial arts world and professional boxing during that time, and many improvements have been made to reduce the damage. It is a matter of making several weighings for the game to check that the practitioners lose weight properly. The Pro Boxing Commission will check the matches of the boxers to compete, so that the match will not be wrong. The preparation for the match must also be checked. If a boxer gets knocked down on a sparring, the boxer needs to be examined so that you can see that he has not suffered a brain injury. If this is not reported, the boxer can be shut down for a longer time, even for life. These are routines and rules that also apply to other martial arts. The question, then, is why we still distinguish these similar sports in legislation. The Left Party believes that it is high time to review the martial arts law to see how well the law has fulfilled and still serves its purpose. I therefore support reservations 16 and 22.
i-5FScNGTevRQt2hEhxgitoT	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the Liberals support all of our individual and common reservations, but for the winning time I only ask for reservation 8 in paragraph 5 and reservation 11 in paragraph 8. Mr President, I would like to This report deals, among other things, with equality in sport. I, together with Anna Vikström from the Social Democrats, had the great privilege of visiting the past weekend, Friday – Monday, Special Olympics World Winter Games in Austria. We visited Sweden's 41 contestants, met some of their coaches, team management and so on. I believe that no one in this House is more than Anna Vikström, and I have the impression that 2,700 athletes from 107 nations are currently competing and gathering under the Olympic fire in Graz, Schladming and Ramsau. They are there to prove that nothing is impossible, to compete against their own ability and those of others and win victories for themselves, for Team Sweden and for Sweden. On this I have not seen a row or heard a sound in the big media. It's almost scandalous. Surely it cannot be the way in which these people's fantastic sporting efforts are downgraded and expelled because the contestants are intellectually disabled – or retarded, as was said earlier. Who's worth reporting about? Equality in sport has not come very far. The shortcomings are obvious. The National Sports Federation has not invested a crown in Special Olympics. There is no reporting in national media – zero attention. We can start discussing equality in sport on this basis. Mr President, I would like to I would now like to talk about the report and our reservations. Human rights apply to all people regardless of skin colour, background, sexuality or disability. The fight against all forms of restrictions on freedom must therefore always be at the top of the list of priorities. One battle which is often ignored and which has only received the necessary attention in recent years and which it deserves is the fight against honour-related violence and oppression. Not participating in the fight against this violence and oppression because the perpetrator is often Swedish with a foreign background is nothing more than racism against the individual who is affected, which is often also Swedish with a foreign background. Mr President, I would like to There is a need for closer scrutiny of religious free schools, religious communities and various ethnic associations that live on tax revenue. Religious free schools must actively teach that young people are free to choose their own lives and who they want to love – whether it is a person of the opposite or their own sex. If a religious free school does not live up to this, it must be shut down without exception, as already provided for in the school law. Madam President, I would like Of course, associations and religious communities have freedom of expression and every right to assert medieval views. This does not mean, however, that they should remain undisputed or go free from debate. However, this does not mean that the Swedish State should be involved in contributing to this. For the oppression of honour should not be left a single crown of taxpayers' money. It is not racist to demand that schools, communities and associations follow the values that everyone has the right to choose for themselves who they want to love. No one should be forced to live in an honorary oppression in today's Sweden. Human rights apply without exception. Madam President, I would like As I said, no tax revenue should go to organisations or congregations that advocate oppression. This also applies to violent messages that indirectly or directly support or otherwise glorify terrorism and extremism. It is also in these environments that recruitment and radicalisation occur, according to national coordination. It is the Liberals' firm view that the government must come back very quickly with proposals on how to tighten up the regulatory framework so that organisations can get rid of their contribution and be liable for repayment. We must also pay attention to the problem where local support is given to associations, assemblies and organisations that support extremism. This takes the form of local and regional support through free premises, direct financial grants, association grants or membership grants, free participation with lecturers, lending of public premises and so on. Nowadays there are quite a few municipal action plans, and that is a good thing. However, according to the reports on reality, little has happened in the two and a half years that there have been calls for action plans. Madam President, I would like As I said, I am in favour of reservation 8 in paragraph 5 and of reservation 11 in paragraph 8.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-516	Madam President, I would like I agree with all the reservations of the Alliance and the Christian Democrats, but for time to come, I only call for reservations 2 and 9. For ten years I had the privilege of being part of a civil organisation in Gothenburg that works with people who have ended up in homelessness, addiction, psychiatric problems or several parts at the same time. The memories and the attitude I have with me from there have forever marked my respect for other people, regardless of their background and situation. Meeting people at eye level was an expression we used. There is such a tremendous amount of humanity in voluntary involvement that it has consequences for all involved. My heroes are the field workers who, in meeting the homeless, the poorest among us, show such compassion. They are not on the barricades, and they are making efforts without counting on profit for themselves. Winston Churchill is said to have said: "We make a living from what we get, but create a life from what we give." I never forget that morning when one of the homeless people we worked with showed me a key. He was about 40 years old and had lived a life that resulted in his losing everything. He said: This key is important to me, you see. It's the first time in a very long time that I have a key to my own apartment. In the key there was restoration, renewed trust, trust and a great measure of joy. It is an example of how the power of interpersonal relationships can result in something good. It was in this work within civil society that the seed was sown into a political commitment to me. I thought it was possible to change people's lives – so it's possible to change this society for the better. Maybe it's a naive thought, but I'm still carried by that vision. Madam President, I would like The concept of civil society describes what it is about. That is the sum of the people's voluntary activities. A definition of civil society can be found from Sida which says: Civil society is like an arena, separate from the state, the market and the individual household, in which people organize and act together for common interests. It could also be said that it is a link between the individuals and the public, political sphere. It is therefore extremely important for the public to recognise the importance of civil society. I have also heard that from the speeches that have been made so far here today. One key, according to Dan Ericsson – who, on behalf of the government, has investigated civil society – is that the public is becoming more inclusive and recognises that civil society is a sector with a diversity of organisations and activities that create values both for individuals and for society as a whole. In the 2006 government declaration, the then alliance government said, among other things: The foundation for security and community is laid in a strong civil society such as associations, sports movements, churches, communities, and non-profit organisations. Solidarity in public welfare systems complements a society that is more characterised by humanity, responsibility and ideality. A strong civil society is also the basis for a strong democracy. Increased cooperation between the public, private and non-profit sectors is essential for the development of our society. ..................................................... Civil society has become more topical in the Swedish social debate in recent years, and I and many others are delighted. But the phenomenon itself is really ancient. Politics has a responsibility to do what can be decided within the limits of policy, including education and work. But even in the best of worlds, political decisions alone cannot cope, for example, with the issue of integration, but also with civil society, where we are all part of it. As we heard someone here say, it becomes a complement, but a very important complement. It is in the family, in associations, organizations and churches that this occurs. There we all have a personal responsibility. It is not enough to talk about everyone's equal value in Parliament's plenary – and now I am talking to myself – but not to show it in action in their own everyday lives. Madam President, I would like As a Christian Democrat, I would like to stress the importance of discussions on values, on how we deal with each other in school, in care for the elderly as well as in our daily work, also in political rooms. The Christian Democrats' policy seeks to strengthen civil society and thus inter-human contacts. One day a woman came to our organisation in Gothenburg. She came straight from the street. She said, "I don't know if I exist." She had lost everything. People turned their eyes away when they saw her or walked across the street. Family members hadn't been in touch for a long time. I remember it so clearly when she said, "I don't know if I exist." Then she came into the heat and moved to a home for women in the same situation. She moved in there, got redress, and finally she was able to build a healthy self-esteem. This can happen a little wherever there are dedicated people, but then it happened in a nonprofit organization where people went to help others. As I began by saying: The immense human power of non-profit involvement has consequences for everyone involved.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-533	Madam President, I would like I will touch on civil society organisations and leave sports issues to Gunilla Carlsson. However, I would like to agree with Bengt Eliasson's description of the experiences of the invisible competitions that we attended this weekend. Civil society organisations are an important social player in a number of areas. Through their activities, they contribute to democracy, welfare, public health, community and social cohesion. The value and importance of civil society can be described in different ways. In addition to being a value in itself, activities can also have a democratic value, a social value and a socio-economic value. There is reason to highlight the social and socio-economic impact that society contributes as well as the value of method development in order to make this visible. The government wants to make it easier for civil society organisations to carry out their activities, which are governed by a number of different regulations. Increasing the degree of freedom of civil society organisations and preserving their specificity has been the starting point of a government investigation called Palett for a strengthened civil society. The investigation was set up by the previous government, and it has received additional directives from the current government. The Additional Directives proposed how civil society conditions could be strengthened in order to safeguard and develop its role in democracy. The study would also propose measures to reach out to sections of the population outside civil society organisations. The study contains a number of proposals in various areas. One area is how to strengthen the role of civil society in democracy and society. Other areas include facilitating activities by changing the regulatory framework, participating in public procurement and providing administrative support. The proposals of the investigation have been presented and are currently fully prepared within the Government Office. The study talks about the five roles or functions of civil society in society: voice carriers, democracy school, community, service provider and counterweight to the state and industry. I would also like to emphasise the importance of civil society in facilitating good integration. In addition to participating in various activities, civil society organisations can, for example, also have networks and contacts for working life, and they can train languages. We have often talked about the enormous capacity of civil society to scale up and arrange activities related to the reception of many refugees in autumn 2015. Much of this work is still ongoing in many locations in Sweden. The government, together with the alliance parties, made an early effort to provide financial support to various civil society organisations in the autumn. For the future, there is a new model of collaboration between the government and organisations working for integration. Madam President, I would like The religions are also part of civil society. They are very important actors in the work to prevent, for example, violent extremism. In various assignments to the Committee on State Aid to Faith Communities, the government has facilitated the efforts of organisations and religious communities that develop their work to protect democracy against violent extremism. The Board has an ongoing mission to stimulate the community's support for young people, parents and relatives in dialogue. The Government also extends the mandate to the Board to expand and deepen the dialogue with the religious communities in order to stimulate work on democracy, democratic awareness and gender equality. The government is also reviewing the state's support for religious communities, which includes proposing a clarified democracy criterion that is in line with religious freedom. Madam President, I would like Civil society organisations are a great wealth for Sweden. The diversity of activities is extensive and impressive. Finally, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all reservations.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-544	Madam President, I would like Sweden's multifaceted association life is a foundation for the construction of society. Wildlife organisations, the sports movement, cultural associations and others contribute to creating the conditions for children and young people to engage in and cultivate their own interests. In addition, there is democratic education, social association and meetings between people. What makes all this possible is, of course, all the non-profit working time that leaders and functionaries within the associations spend. It is hardly possible to overestimate the value of the non-profit working time spent in all of Sweden's associations. At the same time, associations have costs for premises, materials and so on. Therefore, an association grant is also needed. I dare say that there is no other budget line in which we get the same exchange and the same amount of activity for the resources deployed. In spite of this, there are regular debates about abolishing the association grants. Last in the line came a few months ago when we could hear a former chairman of the Liberal Youth League say that all the association grants should be withdrawn. The argument was that if the associations are now doing so much benefit to society, they should be able to stand on their own economic feet. Fortunately, such arguments have not been put forward in today's debate in this House. Instead, there is a debate on the problem of associations that do not live up to the so-called democracy criterion. Of course, associations that do not respect the equal value of all people or associations where hate speech is not supported. Their activities run counter to the very principle of why we want to grant association grants. The National Agency for Youth and Civil Society, MUCF, acted resolutely against this when it was decided last autumn not to grant grants to, among other things, SDU. As far as the contributions handled by MUCF are concerned, the legislation seems to function as intended. As far as religions are concerned, the case is not quite the same. That is why the government has set up an investigation that looks at the issue and how we can tighten up the legislation and criteria for contributions to the religious communities. Nevertheless, some parties would like to make a special announcement to the government to do what the government has already done. It's called breaking open doors. Instead of giving political impetus to opening doors, it is better to raise issues on which we actually need to put more political work. One such issue, which several others have raised in today's debate, is the situation of children and young people with disabilities. We know that in the age range 7-16 years, every other child participates in some form of regular sports activity. In the case of children and young people with disabilities in the same age group, it is only 4 – 5 percent. This difference shows that there are major structural problems that need to be worked out. It is therefore important that the government continues to engage in dialogue with the sports movement, so that it can broaden its activities and provide opportunities and conditions for all children, regardless of whether they have disabilities, to participate in sports activities. I support the proposal of the Committee on Culture in its report.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-552	Madam President, I would like Today we are dealing with the report by the Committee on Culture on Civil Society. Within the Moderates, we have divided our participation in the debate in the way my colleague Eva Lohman described earlier, so that Eva takes civil society as a whole while I focus on sports and outdoor issues. It is important for us in this debate to demonstrate the importance of sport for the individual and for society at large. Sport certainly deserves a prominent place in the debate on society, not least given that sport has the very best tools for better health, community, participation and democratic education. Sport helps girls, boys, men and women to enter the community in an invaluablely fast way. Perhaps sport is our very best integration engine and an opportunity for better public health and social inclusion. The hymns and stories of our new arrivals are truly touching and pleasing. Over the last few years, sport has made excellent efforts. Nevertheless, it is important to point out that sport alone cannot solve societal problems but is an extremely important player. The Swedish sports movement, which stands for both breadth and elite, consists of 20 000 associations throughout the country. In 2015, the total number of members aged 6 to 80 was 3,145,000. The number of members of the management team in the same age range was as high as 871,000. Sport is mostly based on non-profit leaders. These are our everyday heroes; that cannot be stressed enough. In one study, Ersta Sköndal University of Technology points out that the non-profit leaders spend a total of 176 million hours on their leadership, which in terms of money is said to be worth nearly SEK 30 billion. This means that sport also deserves attention from a societal point of view. The message of a so-called social infrastructure is communicated at all stages in order to enable as many as possible to practise their sport in organised form or as spontaneous sport. Good access to spaces for spontaneous sport is long-term important for public health. The facilities also provide opportunities for children and young people who are not active in an association to receive the benefit of physical activity. Especially when it comes to young girls, who, to a greater extent than boys, choose to quit organized sports in their early teens, this is extremely important. Not all children and young people are reached by association life, which is actually unique to Sweden and the Nordic region. Therefore, we Moderates will push forward our proposal on sport in Fritis. Here, the Swedish School Sports Association gets the role of coordinating their school sports associations so that each fritiselev gets the opportunity to try out different sports. The aim of the proposal is to give all children the opportunity to try out different sports as well as to offer them the opportunity to undergo leadership training that includes leadership, sports, nutrition, fair play and so on. Add to that that we Moderates also drive a 20% increase in sports and health at school, something that S, V and MP have actively voted against here in Parliament. Madam President, I would like We are now going to the goal of the Riksdag's follow-up and evaluation of the objectives of state sports policy with a focus on children and young people that the Riksdag decided on in January 2015. As chairman of the work, I very much look forward to having a hearing on the evaluation held by Parliament on 11 May to present a series of exciting and interesting conclusions that we in the group have reached together. It is about how stakeholders view the state efforts for children's and young people's sports activities and what results can be seen, with a clear focus on gender equality, equality and the perspective on children's rights. Madam President, I would like Public health issues have become increasingly the focus. Overweight and obesity are becoming more common among the population. Here, sport and the open-air sector can contribute to prevention. Sports and outdoor activities are therefore very wise and necessary – they are well-invested funds. I am also proud to tell you that we in the Moderates in our budget add a total of 1.99 billion to the sports movement, which is 55 million more than the government's funding for sport. Swedish Outdoor Life has 1.8 million members, of which 300 000 are children and young people. These actors also actively highlight the major societal problems resulting from the lack of physical activity, which costs society billions each year and leads to increased ill health, not least among children and young people. Not much activity is required to significantly strengthen public health. For example, a 20 - minute walk a day can reduce health risks by as much as 30%. Close access to forest and green areas means that outdoor engagement does not have to be costly either. Here, however, we must take urban planning into account, and there we politicians have an important role to play in filling with our decisions. Sport and outdoor life are extremely important elements for a healthier Sweden. The specific nature of sport and the non-profit sector is important to highlight and respect. But in these sectors there are also problems which are not specific to them, but which exist in society as a whole. Politics must respect the autonomy of sport but cannot stand side by side when children and young people suffer in sport. I am therefore grateful that these issues are now increasingly highlighted in the debate on society in an offensive way. All children should be safe in sport. Here, sport, politics and RF bear a responsibility for compliance with this. I would also like to point out that the committee is now proposing an announcement to the government that there should be an initiative for a dialogue with sport on increased achievement of objectives, so that more children and young people with disabilities are reached and included in sports activities. It is an important and good decision. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all those people who contribute in their work to giving more people the opportunity to practise sports and outdoor life. These are invaluable efforts for the individual and for society at large. Thank you very much.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-565	Madam President, I would like It is not possible to talk about civil society without talking about the sports movement and Swedish outdoor life. They are both part of the Swedish model. It is independent, democratic and open to all. In a democratic society, peoples' movements with many active members are a great asset, both today and in the future. In today's debate, I will focus on sport, because I only have four minutes, when Peter, who is supposed to be here, is sick. Sport is also the area where there are the most reservations. The role of sport is to create desire and joy. This is what makes people involved in sport as athletes, functionaries and spectators. Today, the sports movement has more than 3 million members, 600 000 non-profit leaders and 20 000 associations across the country. That makes sport one of our biggest peoples' movements. It is also a strength to be able to organise children's and young people's activities within the same movement, as well as exercise and elite sports in many different sports. An important task for the sports movement is to create physical activity in an increasingly sedentary world. It is a challenge to get people to move around to feel good and prevent ill health. Creating a community and making it possible to meet across borders and make new friends is also an urgent task for sport. It is a way of counteracting segregation, building bridges and counteracting polarisation and prejudice in a multicultural society. We Social Democrats want the state and the municipalities to actively support a free and independent sports movement, based on voluntary commitment, which conducts a wide-ranging activity, which protects good ethics, which provides equal opportunities for girls and boys and women and men, who work actively for integration and safeguard democratic development and participation and safeguard the specificity of the sports movement. Some of the reservations highlighted in today's report relate to equality, equality and integration. The question of the impact of socio-economic factors on sport is also raised. They're all important questions. The government believes that it is important for the sports movement to address these issues. And it is done in these areas. The 2017 Budget Bill stressed the importance of promoting a balanced distribution of power and influence between the sexes. It is expected that the sports movement at different levels will increase its efforts to achieve equal sport – a sport in which people in decision-making positions at all levels and active people are given the same opportunity to realise their interest in participation regardless of gender. It is not satisfied with the current situation and will follow the work carefully in the future. The National Sports Board has decided to speed up this work. However, the government has also commissioned the Centre for Sport Research to follow up the sports policy objectives of equal sport. There is more to be done here, just as the reservations point out. But I think that these measures are on the right track. Another reservation concerns the impact of socio-economic factors on sports. A cornerstone of the Swedish model is a society that holds together. But the divisions and segregation have been allowed to grow for a long time. The current government is working intensively on this, including through long-term reform efforts. In order to allow for increased activities in vulnerable areas, incentives are given to sports associations. For us, it is important that everyone who wants to have the opportunity to participate in the sports movement. That is why the government has invested in increased resources for sport in the latest budgets. It also highlights that it will continue to do so in the future.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-574	Madam President, I would like It should be a matter of course in Sweden to have the right to choose a partner yourself, in my opinion and in the opinion of the party. Although earlier today the Committee on Civil Liberties agreed on an announcement that the government is now expected to take a strong stance against child and forced marriages, it is important to closely monitor developments in this area. No youth in our country should have to sneak up on her love. No one should have to be afraid to associate with their love, and no one should have to be forced to marry a non-selected person. Nevertheless, in recent years we have seen developments where more and more young people feel that they cannot choose partners freely. It is difficult to know exactly how many children and young people are or are at risk of getting married against their will. The darker number is probably big. For us, it is important to get to grips with the situation and to be able to put in place measures to prevent young people from being forced to marry someone they have not chosen. That is why we Swedish democrats want regular investigations in this area. Not even having friendly relations as a child or youth with anyone, whether this person is a man or a woman, in a modern country such as Sweden is worrying, Madam President. There are only studies from 2009 that young people in Sweden felt restrictions on the choice of partners, limitations that usually came from the expectations or demands of the immediate family. In 2014, a law enforcement was introduced with the aim of preventing forced marriages. After about a year, the law had not led to a single conviction despite the opening of several investigations and the fact that we all know that forced marriages have hardly completely disappeared. However, it appears that there is a lack of knowledge and possibly a lack of procedures for dealing with these cases. In order to avoid young people being subjected to forced marriages, it is important that the law works as intended. Madam President, I would like Therefore, we want to set up an investigation to see what can be done to tighten up the law and enforce it – this to prevent forced marriages in our country. To counter this, we want to introduce a well-functioning 24-year limit, which Denmark, among other things, has introduced. Both parties must be over 24 years of age to marry and use it as a reason for a residence permit in the country. According to Danish parties, fewer people are forced to marry to give family or friends a residence permit in the country with this rule. As this system works very well in Denmark, we should be able to introduce it in Sweden as well. It should of course also apply to forced marriages that take place outside Sweden's borders by Swedish citizens, so that you cannot go to another country and get married and then come back and get the partnership approved or registered. Madam President, I would like I support our second reservation. Not being able to choose who you want to live with is one of the greatest restrictions on young people's rights in Sweden today.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-583	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for reservation 3 to be approved under paragraph 3. Madam President, I would like Think, speak and interpret everything for the best – so says Martin Luther in the explanation of the eighth commandment in the Little Catechism. Is it mossy and old? No, it is hardly – think, speak and interpret everything for the best. One of my very best friends' daughter is exposed to online hate. It's been a pretty good time now. It's gone so far that she wants to die. She's hardly alone. I've read somewhere that one in three gets or has been exposed to some kind of net hate. There are data that say that 250 people in Sweden commit suicide every year because of online hate speech and online threats. Of course we have freedom of expression in Sweden – of course. But that does not mean that you have the right to destroy other people or to violate our constitutions. You have the right to say what you want, but you have no right to offend anyone right into the soul. Madam President, I would like I wonder: Do some people have nothing better to do than write mean, threatening, and outright insulting to completely innocent people? Do they really want another person's death on their conscience? Those who are like that should actually think after one, two, three and four laps extra. If you call someone a whore, it is defamatory and illegal – point. Apologies for the choice of languages, Madam President. This is out of control! This is not freedom of expression! This isn't okay! I would really urge all children, young people and, above all, adults to think very carefully before writing anything about or to anyone else. Everyone should be alert and report if they see that someone is writing something stupid to someone and, perhaps above all, dare to tell if you are being exposed. If we all work together, we can fight online threats and cyber hatred before it gets too late. We can save lives together. Remember to think, speak, interpret everything to the best! Madam President, I would like Suicide is the most common cause of death for men between 19 and 44 years of age and the second most common for girls and women up to 45 years of age. In 2015, 1,544 people killed themselves in Sweden. More than three times as many people died in traffic. Despite this, only one gutter is invested, a fraction of the money allocated for reducing road deaths to suicide prevention. The international day of suicide prevention is observed every year on 10 September with candles lit in many places in our country. At the same time, attention can be drawn to the lack of an action programme for the prevention of suicide, which the WHO has recommended to Sweden since 1992 and which, among other things, Denmark and Norway have already had for many years. It may be difficult for the environment to detect when a person is in suicidal thoughts, but an action programme aimed at knowledge and competence, at education, recommendations and action plans at the local level with preventive measures and information on the difficult problems that the subject poses make a difference. We can make a difference! Madam President, I would like The need to review the prevention of suicide is very, very urgent. The goal must be to adopt an action plan and fill it with interactive and living content that describes what different levels of society should do and what fellow humans can do so that we can together fulfill the fixed zero vision: No more suicides! An action plan will be a great support for relatives and staff in school and working life. The action plan should, of course, include a section on the problem of hate, threats and suicide on the Internet. The whole of society must be committed to reducing and preventing suicide. The government should take responsibility as soon as possible and produce such an action plan as I have tried to describe. Of course, it should take great account of the hatred and threats that occur on the Internet. Madam President, I would like I would like to vote in favour of reservation 3 in paragraph 3.
i-X9YchJ5ci7KDysPpodqEAv	Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 4. We have a broad palette in the Committee on Culture, and I would like to begin by thanking Bengt Eliasson for a very touching speech. I myself would like to focus particularly on the culture school and the creative school in this debate. In June 2014, the Parliament decided on a new goal for all government decisions and actions concerning young people aged between 13 and 25, namely that all young people should have good living conditions, the power to shape their lives and influence social development. These are beautiful words that we politicians can lean against and use in the argumentation: ..................................................... Now that is not the case, but I understand that it is a goal or a vision of a future desirable location – beautiful so. But what is serious is that so many children and young people do not take part in the activities of the cultural school. For various reasons, the information has not reached the parents. It may be out of interest or due to economic or social vulnerability. Although parents have received information, this information is not always passed on to the children. There may be as many as 50 percent of all children in our country who do not find out about the opportunity to learn to play an instrument, do drama or dance in the cultural school. Yet we know what culture school means. On the other hand, we do not know where the Cultural School Investigation is landing. It is now being prepared at the Government Office, and it is too early to anticipate the government's preparation. However, there is every reason to follow up how the government intends to work to reach more children with information about the activities of music and cultural schools. One area that will be addressed in the Cultural School Investigation is how rural children will get part of playing and dancing and doing theatrical work. They often have a school bus, perhaps a few kilometers or even a few miles, and if the cultural school is in their spare time, they do not have the opportunity to participate in that activity. I very much hope that the investigation will come up with some proposal which can then be implemented in order to ensure that these children too – because it is a question of many children – are given the opportunity to practise culture, something that we think is so important. It is important for creativity and the formation of identities. It's about the desire to live, the counterweight to mental illness, something we just heard about here, the joy of playing, dancing, being seen and appreciated. Cultural school is extremely important, and everyone should be given this opportunity. The fees vary between SEK 0 and SEK 1,700 per semester in the country's municipalities. If it is the case that the fee discourages and prevents parents from passing on information to their children, it is serious. What I cannot understand is that the left-wing government is so opposed to the Christian Democrats' proposal for a leisure allowance of SEK 3 000 to a child whose family lives in financial vulnerability. The leisure money was introduced by the alliance government but has now been removed by the left-wing government. One hides behind talks about general welfare, that is, that everyone should have the same conditions. In the best of worlds all have the same conditions, but we know that unfortunately it does not work that way in practice. Why do you not make it possible for children to get a SEK 3 000 grant for a fee in the municipal cultural school, sports association or for a study trip with the class? I think it is negligent and shows a lack of compassion as the left-wing parties perform. Madam President, I would like There are light points, ideas coming from below. El Sistema is an organization that works with music as a goal and tool for social and human development. The origin is in Venezuela. Several times a week, children and young people meet to play in orchestra and sing in choir, including Angered in Gothenburg. El Sistema has served as a door opener to new friends and to the new Swedish language. We met representatives of El Sistema in the Culture Committee when the director Camilla Sarner presented the work. I asked about the social differences. She told me about parenting meetings in Angered where at first only a couple of parents came. Then they found out that they would have parents' meetings each week. More and more parents came. Finally, it has become a functioning activity that includes many children. Madam President, I would like Creating school is also a good initiative. For the uninitiated, it may be helpful to understand the purpose. Creation school was established in 2008 to strengthen interaction between school and professional cultural life. In this way, children's right to culture and their own creation is promoted. Creative school includes comprehensive school as a whole and pre-school classes as of January 2013. In 2015, the number of children and pupils who have participated in initiatives at the Creative School amounted to around 750,000 people. The Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis carried out an in-depth evaluation of the state grant Creative School. The evaluation shows – it is important – that there are no signs that municipalities have reduced their resources to culture for children and young people or culture in school since the introduction of the Creative School. The creation school is instead a complement to the municipalities' own cultural initiatives for children and young people in school. In addition to a vital training in creativity, the creative school strengthens young people's self-esteem and learning ability. I have read several stories about how shy and introverted children after some time in an ensemble group, a dance group or a theatre group dare to stand on a stage in front of the audience. It can be absolutely crucial for children and young people for the future.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-608	Madam President, I would like Today we are in the Chamber to deal, among other things, with the report entitled Culture and leisure for children and young people. So that I do not miss it, I would like to call for the proposal in the report to be approved immediately and for all reservations to be rejected. Madam President, I would like This is my second week back in Stockholm again after I've been on maternity leave for eight months. For eight months, I've been experiencing the love of my child. With her, I now experience a variety of new first experiences, that is, the joy it brings to experience something for the first time. Last week, the entire Committee on Culture visited the Dramatic Theatre. There we got information about the building, upcoming renovations and projects that are under way. But above all, Ada Berger's words got stuck. Ada Berger is the Artistic Director of the Young Dramatic Theatre. She also talked about how children's first experiences are something magical. These experiences are something extra – extra fun and extra exciting. However, we also need to understand that not all first experiences are fun. They can also be difficult to understand and too difficult to interpret, especially for our children and young people. Then art and culture become important. To get help to ventilate and understand what you have just experienced is extremely important. It is important for adults and, above all, for our children and young people. In the national cultural policy objectives, we can read about how all children and young people have the right to culture. Particular attention should be paid to culture. We cultural politicians must therefore understand, when we deal with reports like this, and when we discuss issues relating to children, whether they are positions, ideas, studies or projects, that culture is a priority issue. We will always focus on young people and children. It is not only the national cultural policy objectives that we should bear in mind, but also the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. It contains a number of articles dealing with children's right to culture. Among other things, it refers to children's right to participate freely in cultural and artistic life. They also have the right to have a special range specially created for them. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats and the government therefore have a clear perspective on children and young people. For us, that goes without saying. The motions discussed in the report are therefore not opposed by the government. On the contrary, it is good exercise. The emotions lift up and deal with urgent issues. But these are issues that have already been highlighted by the government. The government works with them in one way or another. These issues include children's right to know about the Convention on the Rights of the Child, information and measures to prevent and prevent young people from being married against their will, measures against online bullying of young people, the Creative School and the municipal music and culture school. These are issues that the government is already working on. We do not need to precede this work, and that is why we are calling for the motion to be rejected. It is not that we are opposed to the spirit of the motions, but it is a work that is already under way. For example, the government allocates 100 million annually to music and culture school so that more children can be reached, to reduce fees, broaden cultural schools and improve quality. In addition to this, the Ministry of Culture is currently preparing the investigation and the referrals that have been received regarding a national strategy for the music and culture school. We believe that the School of Music and Culture has an incredibly important role to play when it comes to children's and young people's opportunity not only to take part in the culture but also to engage in their own creation. We are also continuing the work on the Creative School, and we have used this to ensure that the reform also reaches preschool. Reaching the smallest children is important so that they can continue to have an interest throughout their lives. Therefore, we are pleased that the government listened to our wishes when it came to music and culture school. Being able to meet professional cultural workers as a child and also get the chance to create one's own is important. Of course, the school today works in a fantastic way with both culture and creation. You do music, pictures, dance, theatre and crafts. It gives our children and young people an insight into the amazing world of culture. But meeting professionals is of course something extra important, exciting and inspiring. Other initiatives that we can mention include the strengthening of the cultural collaboration model and the reading initiative The whole of Sweden reads with the children. These are initiatives with a clear children's perspective. When it comes to the unfortunately more boring parts, such as online bullying that Bengt Eliasson so strongly talked about – great, Bengt – and that no one will be forced into marriage against his will, the government is also here on the note. You work with the questions. Unfortunately, when I was a teacher, I experienced what online bullying can lead to. Whatever form or method, bullying is a terrible thing. The fact that our children today have to face this even at home, when bullying has reached outside the school walls, when it has reached out online and social media and can reach our children and young people 24 hours a day, means that we have to put our foot down and continue the preventive work. The government is now preparing the investigation that proposes a new penal provision in the Criminal Code on bullying. At the same time, of course, we must prevent. It's important that we start right now. The schools are doing the questions. It's important work. Madam President, I would like I want all parties to continue working for children's and young people's right to first experiences. Everybody's gonna see this. The government is already working on these issues.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-623	Madam President, I would like I thank Anna Wallentheim for her lecture. She says that all children should be involved and have every opportunity. But the reality is different. Not all children, unfortunately, have the opportunity to participate and be included. Because of financial vulnerability, social vulnerability or other reasons, the information from the parents does not reach the children, or the parents do not receive the information in the way they would like. My question to you, Anna Wallentheim, is based on what you say about the government spending a lot, including 100 million a year, on the cultural school. There, too, reality is really different. Four municipalities have reduced the fee. In fact, the municipalities invest 2.2 billion in Sweden, while the government invests 100 million per year. My question is what makes the Social Democrats so negative about leisure money. It could mean that children living in financial vulnerability could receive a supplement and thus be able to pay a membership fee to the cultural school or sports association or to go on a school trip. What makes you think it's not a good idea with your free time money?
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-626	Madam President, I would like Roland Utbolt has mentioned, among other things, the music and culture school and the investment we have made there, but he mainly asks about the leisure money. That's right, Roland we don't think the leisure money is anything to keep. We believe in general welfare. We believe, however, that our efforts allow more children and young people to reach sports and music and theatre schools, cultural schools and other cultural activities. The idea of the 100 million is that we want to reduce the fees. We want to broaden the music and culture school. We want to increase the quality so that more people will be attracted. You mentioned, among other things, the fantastic El Sistema, which I also think is a fantastic activity. Our initiative means that music and culture schools could begin to cooperate with this by reaching more, reaching those we do not reach today, and by broadening and increasing the quality. But these are, unfortunately, bets that you have not received very well. Madam President, I would like In addition, we have seen leisure money as an indication. By investing in general welfare for all, we also reach more people without having to point out our children.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-631	Madam President, I would like It is very interesting, I think, with the ideological difference here and the way of looking at it. The Alliance introduced the extracurricular allowance. We want it to be reinstated after the 2018 elections. Now, as I mentioned in my speech, you are talking about general welfare. Everyone's going to have this in some way. But the reality is not like that. The reality is that there are children and young people who do not take part in, among other things, cultural school, for economic reasons. What is $1,000 per child? It is about children – I may not have the correct decimals – in grades 5 to 9. The family must have been supported for six months. Then you should be able to apply for this. If so, what is the supply aid if not an indication? I find it rather sad that people are being drawn up on this issue. These people would never, I think, experience the leisure money or apply for 3,000 crowns as an indication. It's not a public document, is it? I think it's boring. This thing with El Sistema is something that comes from underneath. It is hardly something that comes from the political establishment. I think you should reconsider when it comes to leisure money, because it will be reinstated – I am convinced – when the alliance government will be allowed to regain power in 2018.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-637	Madam President, I would like In many of our debates in the Committee on Culture there are often not many lines. We think in many ways quite the same, but we have different ways of taking our policies where we wish: that as many as possible should take part in culture. Roland Utbolt and I want the same thing in this: that as many children and young people as possible should take part in cultural activities. It is incredibly important, and, as Roland mentions, we unfortunately do not reach all children and young people today. But, as I said, we still do not believe that leisure money is the right way to go. Instead, we have increased the parental allowance for single people, and we are raising the supplementary allowance for multiple children. When it comes to reaching as many children and young people as possible, we have a very clear difference. Unfortunately, the previous bourgeois government removed the aesthetic activities of upper secondary school, which we believe is a fantastic way to reach our children and young people. Now that you want to expand Creative School to reach high school, we think it's better that our high school students once a week get to try singing, dancing and playing theatre than they get to try it at one time or another. That is how we reach children and young people – by investing so that they are reached by this regularly.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-642	Madam President, I would like Prime Minister Stefan Lövven's first government declaration already highlighted the ambition to transpose the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law. After that, an investigation has been working on the issue. The government has now taken on board, and according to the timetable, the bill will be presented to the Riksdag before the summer. Hopefully, after that, we can have a political majority in this House to decide whether to actually transpose the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law. But, of course, the ambition cannot simply be to have the best legislation in the world from the perspective of children and young people. We want Sweden in every way to be a good country for children and young people to grow up in. The responsibility for this lies in most policy areas, including, of course, cultural policy from the perspective of ensuring that all children and young people are given the opportunity to participate in cultural activities as well as to cultivate and develop their own inner creativity. The Music and Culture School is, of course, central here. Last year we received state support for the municipal music and culture school on site. The main responsibility for the music and culture school still rests with the municipalities, but from the state side we see the importance of giving all children and young people, regardless of their upbringing municipality and whatever socio-economic background, the opportunity to participate in the activities. Therefore, State aid is also needed. The outcome has been extremely positive. Municipalities where there was previously only one traditional music school have been able to expand their activities and complement them with theatre and dance and thus reach more children and young people. The cultural school inquiry has now presented proposals for how we can further work and further strengthen support for the music and culture school, both with more resources and with national support to develop the business. The Moderates have rather embarrassing rhetoric here. The Moderates' previous draft budget did not include a crown for the music and culture school. In the debate last autumn, the Moderates stated that the School of Music and Culture is a purely municipal responsibility and that we should certainly not support it with resources from parliament and government. Now the Moderates place a reservation. They want the government to do what the government already does, i.e. find strategies to support the music and culture school, without having a single crown for it. Of course, if you have no politics of your own for the music and culture school, you can pretend to have it. But I don't think you're fooling anyone but possibly yourself. I was puzzled when I heard Roland Utbolt's speech here earlier. Roland Utbolt is also passionate about supporting the music and culture school. But neither have the Christian Democrats previously had any additional resources from government sources to the municipal music and culture school. I hope that the Christian Democrats can instead join in a proposal to strengthen the resources for the music and culture school in the future. At the same time, of course, the music and culture school is voluntary. It will never reach all children and young people. Rather, the key to reaching all children and young people is the aesthetic subjects of school education. It was therefore a very unfortunate decision when the alliance government in 2011 removed the aesthetic subjects from upper secondary school. Here, too, we have a completed study, the secondary school inquiry, which proposes that the aesthetic subjects be reintroduced into all upper secondary school programmes. I hope we can have a political majority for that in the future. In view of the fact that the Liberals and the Center Party have actually regretted and apologised for being involved in removing the aesthetic subjects from high school, I hope so. Creative school has been debated. Creating school is an important complement to the aesthetic teaching of school so that children and young people are given the opportunity to meet professional artists and meet professional art. The Red-Green Government has strengthened the resources for Creative School and developed its operations so that it also reaches preschool. But above all, the government has taken note of the problems that have existed, that is, that resources for Creative School have only gone to those schools that have actively sought support but may not have reached those schools that have had the greatest need. The resources for preschool are therefore designed so that you do not need to actively seek support, but resources go to preschools in the areas where the needs are greatest. It provides both reduced administration and conditions for more of the resources actually coming out of the business. I support the proposal of the Committee on Culture in its report.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-656	Madam President, I would like We have no reservations in this report, but we have a specific opinion on the right to choose partners. It goes without saying that everyone should have the right to choose if, and with whom, you want to marry. In Sweden we have legislation against child and forced marriages. Nevertheless, too many young people live in marriages that they have been forced into by their parents, and many are afraid of being forced into marriage. The Left Party has for a long time and, I would also like to emphasise, been alone in opposed to the rule of exception which currently exists for the recognition of foreign child marriages, forced marriages and proxy marriages in the law on certain international legal relationships concerning marriage and guardianship. It is to be welcomed that more people now think like the Left Party. I believe that there is a great need for preventive work to prevent young people from being married off against their will, so I welcome the extensive work that is now going on within the Government Office and at various authorities. We would therefore like to await that work and proposals in the forthcoming investigation. Nevertheless, I would strongly reject the Swedish democrats' proposal to introduce, like Denmark, special age rules for marriage depending on the origin or nationality of the person concerned. Another issue that I want to raise is net hate and net threat, something that Bengt Eliasson raised very well earlier. I myself have experienced threats and hatred since I was perhaps 17 - 18 years old, and it is still happening. However, what has happened recently, which I think has played a major role, is that more people have spoken about this and made it visible in a way that has not happened before, much because we have been called upon not to talk about it because it is getting worse. The problem is that there was no difference when you didn't talk about it. I have therefore felt that it has been a good thing that so many famous people – cultural personalities, journalists and so on – still highlighted this in the light. This has led to a change in the way the judiciary has looked at it too. I myself was in a trial just over a year ago, dealing with a crime that I had become accustomed to would not lead anywhere. It was about a man who called countless times and sent text messages for a year. It was learned that there was never anything happening with phone calls from hidden numbers or text messages from prepaid numbers. But now a person has actually been convicted for this. In a month's time, I will be taking part in another trial against a person who sent messages on Facebook – a case where even the Security Service said that this was not something they took very seriously because it happened on social media. It's so easy to send away some threats and hate. However, as many inform about this problem, a unique case will now be brought to trial. That is what I think is important for a change to take place; it must be taken seriously. The government's investigators have looked at these things and pointed out the importance of the threats, hatred and sexual harassment that occur online being taken as seriously as those that take place in reality. The same is true in school: Violations must be taken equally seriously whether they are on the school yard or on social media in any app. I therefore look forward to future proposals for new legislation in this area. However, school work against abusive treatment must also be much better and taken much more seriously.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-665	Madam President, I would like It is an interesting debate, and I would like to say from the outset that the right of children and young people to culture was given the highest priority in the cultural policy of the Alliance Government. The Alliance is continuing to develop this priority even now that we are currently in opposition. Children and young people have the right to both experience professional culture and have the opportunity to develop their own creation. It increases our understanding of ourselves, but also of the outside world, and contributes to reflection and critical thinking. Getting to know cultural heritage through culture and understanding the historical context strengthens children and young people's own integrity. We have seen that it is important to invest in children and young people. The great efforts made by the Alliance government to promote reading have now been reaped in various places. Among other things, it was last reported that children's and young people's literature is currently published as never before. As several have pointed out, it is important for children and young people to have access to culture, not only at school but also in their free time. There we have Creative School at school and Culture School and other activities outside, in leisure time. Creating school, of which I am particularly proud, is the Alliance's reform: We saw that the clear cultural mission of the curriculum was not fulfilled in school to an acceptable extent. The Convention on the Rights of the Child, whether it is in the law or not, states that all children have the right to culture, but in reality the variations are very great. We chose to start on a small scale, and now this has grown to SEK 188 million per year. That's great! The report describes very well what a success Creative School is and has been, but it is not a self-playing piano. In reservation 5, we say that this must be followed up systematically. We must also ensure that those schools, especially independent schools, which are not so easy to apply for grants, also have the opportunity to do so: what can we do? Therefore, my question to the Social Democrats, the Swedish Democrats, the Green Party and the Left is: Why do you not want all students to have access to this? Why don't you want to make it easier for the students of these free schools to take part in Creative School? You have the opportunity to reply in reply if you have any answer to give. I'll tell you something about culture school, too. There's been an investigation that's now being referred. It is far from the whole of the cultural school that is being catered for. One-sidedly, it focuses on the municipal cultural school. There is a much greater breadth that we Moderates think should be included in this. Madam President, I would like I call for the acceptance of reservation 4 from the alliance parties.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-674	Madam President, I would like Cecilia Magnusson highlights reservation 4 from the alliance parties about Creative School. Then I have to ask her why she locks herself in a reservation with the parties with the lowest level of ambition in terms of the Creative School. All other alliance parties have a lower budget level than the Moderates have in terms of Creative School. Farthest from the Moderates is the Christian Democrats. They have SEK 80 million less in budget space than the Moderates. The question that Cecilia Magnusson addressed to some other parties should primarily be addressed to the Christian Democrats, who have the smallest budget for the Creative School. My question to Cecilia Magnusson is: Why do the Moderates lock themselves in with the alliance comrades and pretend to have a common policy of alliance with regard to the Creative School, when the greatest differences within the Creative School are within the Alliance?
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-677	Madam President, I would like It's exciting to listen to Niclas Malmberg. The alliance is very much alive. We have implemented and created resources for Creative School over the years in the Alliance Government. Of course, the Christian Democrats, the Liberals, the Moderates and the Center Party will create resources for the Creative School when we return to government. At present, we actually want to ensure that Creative School is systematically followed up and that all students have equal opportunities to participate in Creative School activities. But the Green Party chooses to sign up with the Swedish Democrats and take down our proposal, which has now become a reservation. Why doesn't Niclas Malmberg want all students in the same way to take part in Creative School? That is the meaning when you, together with the Swedish Democrats, convict our proposal.
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-680	Madam President, I would like It is possible that Cecilia Magnusson was not here when I made my speech. There I pointed out that the government has now actually developed Creative School, so that it is not just about the schools seeking resources. The entire contribution that now goes to preschool within the framework of the Creative School is destined to those areas where the preschools most in need of support are located and not to the preschools that are seeking support. It is more efficient administrative management, which means that we get more resources out in the business. Cecilia Magnusson should perhaps update herself on the rules that now actually exist for Creative School. Cecilia Magnusson says that the alliance comrades will join the moderate policy on this if they get the chance to sit in a government together in the future. My experience of the Alliance's collective cultural policy is that the alliance parties were always the parties that wanted the least. That is why it became an extremely poor cultural policy for eight years. The Green Party and the Social Democrats are working in a different way. We're adding our resources. We take various initiatives and support each other's initiatives. This has given us a very strong cultural policy. Cecilia Magnusson began by saying that the Alliance prioritised children and young people in its cultural policy. We can see the results. They removed the aesthetic subjects from upper secondary school, they didn't want to invest in music and culture school and so on. My question to Cecilia Magnusson is therefore: how do you act in those areas where you do not think you are prioritising politics, when you are so nifty about the areas that you consider your priorities?
i-b3f1f6cd5a1e6c26-687	Madam President, I would like It is impressive to hear that Niclas Malmberg can have alternative truths in his line shift. During the eight years that the Alliance had the opportunity to govern this country, we constantly focused on children and young people in cultural policy. We took resources from other parts of our policy to invest in children and young people. Creating school is such a clear spending area where we actually prioritised the culture of children and young people over that of others. For example, we removed the spectacular reform with free admission to museums that allowed Östermalmstanter free admission to museums. Instead, we focused on children's and young people's opportunities to participate in culture. That's investing in culture. So don't tell me that this government, with its active support from the Swedish Democrats, has something to come up with! We have seen a fiasco when it comes to film policy. We have seen a fiasco with regard to cultural heritage policy. We'll see how it goes with the Culture School investigation. It is almost embarrassing to see the one-sided perspective on your own business. Children who today want to develop their cultural creation not only have municipal cultural school at their disposal. There are study associations, churches, individual traders and cultural practitioners who offer cultural activities for children. But you can't see that at all. You are so snowed on your own business and can't let go of it. It is surprising how paralysed this government is.
