i-cfaf681e95866446-0	Mr President, I would like to Pål Jonson has asked me if I share the view that there are very serious deficiencies in the protection against cyber attacks by Swedish authorities, what new measures I and the government intend to take in the light of the extensive cyber attacks and conclusions in the annual reports from Säpo, FRA and Must, and when I and the government intend to present the national strategy for society's information and cyber security. There is a great need to develop information security in Sweden. Since the government took office, therefore, a number of measures have been taken. For example, the Government decided in December 2015 on mandatory cyber-incident reporting for government agencies. Since 1 April 2016, government agencies are obliged to report cyber incidents that affect them. The Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency, MSB, has added increased resources to strengthen society's resilience to cyber attacks. In the 2017 spring change budget, the Government contributed SEK 10 million to MSB to strengthen the work on information security and psychological defence. In the 2018 Budget Bill, the Government quadruples and permanentizes the increase in funds based on an agreement between the Government, the Moderates and the Center Party. In addition, next year even more providers of essential and digital services will be obliged to report serious cyber incidents and take other security measures. This obligation will enter into force once the EU Directive on measures for a high common level of security in networks and information systems, the NIS Directive, has been implemented. Important work is also under way to modernise and strengthen the Security Act. This includes the investigation into certain security issues to propose measures to improve the protection of the most worthy activities. The investigator shall, inter alia, propose preventive measures to ensure that security-protected data, or security-sensitive activities, are not exposed to the risks associated with outsourcing, assignment and transfer of such activities. The mission also includes proposing a system of sanctions in the Security Act. The Swedish Armed Forces have the task of developing and strengthening Sweden's cyber defence, with the support of the Swedish Defence Radio Agency (FRA), and possibly other relevant authorities. For the most secure operations, the FRA provides a technical detection and warning system, TDV. TDV is an operation that received increased resources in the 2017 spring change budget and through the Government's proposal for permanent reinforcements of FRA's operations as of 2018. Finally, in April this year, the Swedish Security Service and the FRA were asked to report on what further measures could be taken to counter the most serious threats to the most protected activities in Sweden. The report has been submitted and, in the light of it, the government proposes further strengthening of the authorities' work on information and cyber security. The examples above illustrate the importance of collaboration and a common direction. Therefore, on 29 June 2017, the Government presented a new national strategy for the development and strengthening of information and cyber security in Sweden. The strategy sets objectives in six priority areas, and the government has already begun implementation by deciding on four government missions related to the strategy on the same day. I will continue to closely monitor efforts to strengthen society's information and cyber security and take further action when necessary.
i-cfaf681e95866446-8	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Justice, for the answer to my interpellation! I would like to start by saying that I understand that the formation of a government and the summer break delay interpellation responses, but I note that this interpellation was made four months ago. At that time, the government was aware of the safety breach that had taken place at the Swedish Transport Agency. However, we in the opposition did not do so when I put this interpellation. The accident within the Swedish Transport Agency has, of course, pointed out many of the problems that Must, FRA and Säpo also address in their annual reports when it comes to safety in Sweden. The annual reports point quite unequivocally to the fact that there are major deficiencies in the security awareness of Swedish authorities, inter alia linked to cyber security. There is a limited ability on the part of Swedish authorities to carry out analyses of what is worthy of protection. These authorities also point out that there are shortcomings in Sweden regarding the IT-related infrastructure of Swedish authorities. It therefore clearly appears that some form of security culture has emerged in Sweden that is lacking when it comes to cybersecurity, and I think that this is particularly serious for those authorities that have a security responsibility in total defence, especially in the light of the deteriorating security policy situation around the world. The Minister is very well acquainted with the review made by the Swedish National Audit Office of cybersecurity at nine Swedish authorities and who were actually killing in their criticism of these authorities' ability to deal with cyber attacks. We have even seen cases in the police where there seems to be a lack of security culture, given that the chief of police was in the Committee of Justice as late as yesterday and explained why a breach of the security regulation was made. Another area that also takes a toll on the shortcomings in cybersecurity is that cybercrime in Sweden has increased by over 900 percent over the past decade. The results of the investigation by the police in this area look sad, and this is the fastest growing crime that we have to deal with in Sweden. Even in an international comparison, it is clear that Sweden is not in good shape when it comes to cybersecurity. At the World Economic Forum in Davos for two years, a survey was presented that pointed out that Sweden is the world's third most digitised and connected country, while in that measurement we did not even reach the top 50 on cybersecurity. Now I know there has been progress over the last two years, but there is no doubt that the government has a fine work ahead of it to enhance cyber security. I would also like to make it clear that there is also a shadow over the alliance government. We should have done more to enhance cyber security. But now it is the government that owns the issue, and that is why I want to see leadership from the government. To conclude, Mr President, I have two comments on the Minister's reply. The Minister says that there is a need to increase information security in Sweden. I share that analysis, but I also know that one reason why we are doing so may not be so much for the threats and risks that exist, but because the EU is now imposing new demands on us through the NIS Directive. I would therefore like to know whether the Minister shares Musts, FRA's and Säpo's assessment that there are very large and serious deficiencies in protection against cyber attacks. It is important for us in the opposition to know whether or not you share the analysis of your own authorities and opposition. When it comes to incident reporting, it is good that the government has implemented this and that it is mandatory. There is a very high level of under-reporting in this area, and this needs to be addressed. The FRA went out in January and said that Sweden had been subjected to 10 000 state-sanctioned attacks.
i-cfaf681e95866446-19	Mr President, I would like to It's true that Pål Jonson says that it has pulled out on t in it to answer this interpelllation, because the summer break came between. On the other hand, we can report further things that we have done, including the strategy that Pål Jonson demands in its interpellation. We made a decision about that during the summer, so we have done that. I also appreciate that Pål Jonson points out that there has been progress over these two years and that it is a common political responsibility to ensure that we increase the overall level of cybersecurity in the country. If we go back, we will see that there have been a number of reviews. In 2014, the Swedish National Audit Office reviewed the information security work of the previous government and concluded that there were shortcomings in the governance of the public information work. A number of recommendations were also made to the incoming government, which we are now dealing with. On that occasion, the Swedish National Audit Office also reacted to the fact that the previous government had not acted sufficiently despite the fact that the first deficiencies were pointed out a number of years ago, almost ten years ago in this situation. When the government took office in 2014, we started work to strengthen protection against cyber attacks. Those threats can be of different kinds and magnitude. It can be anything from teenage hackers who just want to test the systems to criminals who want information to make money or steal money, to terrorists who want to knock out parts of society's IT infrastructure just to create mess and chaos or, at its worst, foreign power that wants to infiltrate our information systems to access what is our most protective information, that is, the kind of information that has bearing on national security. The attackers can be of many different kinds, the motives even more and the methods innumerable. Protecting oneself is therefore both difficult and complex but can prove crucial in a crisis situation. The government has therefore taken a series of measures to raise our preparedness, to strengthen our skills and to increase our ability to resist cyber attacks of various kinds. For example, the Swedish National Audit Office required the mandatory IT incident reporting. It is now in place. We decided on the 2015, and 2016 it came into place. It is needed to assess the threats and our vulnerability. Then we need to get ongoing information about various attempts to get into and manipulate our systems. Now there is a regime that requires all government agencies to report all serious cyber incidents as a matter of urgency. They will report either to MSB, to Säpo or to the Swedish Armed Forces depending on the type of incident. In 2016, last year, MSB received 214 such cyber incident reports from 77 authorities. 12 of them were reported to the police. For the first time there is now a more comprehensive picture of what Sweden is exposed to, although of course there is still, as Pål Jonson points out, a large number of darkness. It is about continuing to work with that tool to get more and more information of that kind. In addition, the government is increasing the funds allocated to those authorities that have a central role in cyber security. It is first and foremost MSB, who received 10 million this year. We expand with additional money and fourfold the support to SEK 40 million from next year. The FRA will receive another 20 million next year for its important work. The Security Service will also receive another 40 million. In total, from next year it is another SEK 100 million to these central authorities to work to increase cyber security.
i-cfaf681e95866446-27	Mr President, I would like to Let me first make a brief comment on the IT incident reporting. Only three of the notifications were addressed to Säpo, i.e. linked to security protection. There was no registration to the Swedish Armed Forces. In the light of the FRA's assessment that Sweden is exposed to so many state-sanctioned attacks, it is quite clear that the number of darkness is significant. I would like to know whether the Minister intends to take any steps to remedy this dark talk. The situation picture, as the Minister says, is very important. I would also like to take note of the government's IT and security strategy, which the government has presented. The government has taken some time to present the strategy given that it is a year late. I note that it is difficult to write such compilation documents, and I know that there are better and worse strategies that have been presented. The path to success is by daring to prioritise and be clear in the strategies. A strategy should normally include three Ms, namely objectives, means and methodology. The strategy presented by the government is undoubtedly rich in objectives. It is based on the three objectives of the national security strategy. This is, among other things, the goal of digitalisation, i.e. that Sweden should be the best in the world when it comes to digitalisation. That case has six broken-down IT cases and 54 sub-cases. In fact, there are 68 objectives of 32 pages in that document. A benevolent interpretation is that the government has high ambitions. But the problem, when so much focus is on objectives, is that the other two issues, the really interesting ones in a strategy, namely how they are to be realised and what funds are to be set aside, show that the strategy in that respect unfortunately has major shortcomings. I would like to mention three shortcomings that I have identified. First of all, I am really surprised that the strategy is so brief when it comes to procurement and outsourcing, despite the fact that the strategy was written with the insight into the Government Office about the breakdown that had taken place at the Swedish Transport Agency and with the realization that Säpo already 2012 warned of risks and problems with outsourcing. The investigation that formed the basis of the strategy, written by Erik Wennerström, said that we must dare to use the law on procurement for defence and security products and not just the law on public procurement. It was the cloun itself in the investigation. Yet procurement is dealt with in a very rapsodical way in the strategy. It's a flaw. It is truly surprising in the light of what the government then knew about the Transport Agency and what we know today. Secondly, I would like to point out that the strategy highlights the need for cooperation with private business. That's absolutely right. All technological developments are currently taking place within private companies. Dialogue and links are needed. But the government does not specify how collaboration should take place alongside the forums that MSB has. It is a good activity but also a very specific activity. Thirdly, and this is a big one, the government is not clear on the issue of organisation. Four ministers and six authorities are still working on digitisation and to some extent cyberstrategy. It is a shortcoming that we are not clear. Mr President, I would like to There is nothing in the strategy about the Government Office's own organisation on cyber security issues. We now know that it did not go well for the government and the Government Office to handle the Swedish Transport Agency. Does the Minister intend to take any measures there that are not reflected in the strategy?
i-cfaf681e95866446-36	Mr President, I would like to Now there is an IT incident reporting system in place. I'm sure there might be a dark number, which I was into earlier, but this is the first year. In order to reduce the darkness rate, we must ensure that the level of competence is increased and that there is greater preparedness and vigilance when such incidents occur. That is why the government is prepared to deposit money. I mentioned in my previous speech that we are now quadrupling the funding for MSB from this year's 10 million to 40 million next year. If you add up the money that is now being spent on these purposes, where other authorities will also be strengthened next year, you can see that this is a real boost in this area. MSB, FRA and Säpo, our three central authorities in the field, will receive from next year, 2018, directed money, over SEK 100 million additional to work with, among other things, these issues. In 2019 they will receive additional SEK 150 million, and by 2020 they will receive more than SEK 180 million. The strategy is not just about objectives, but we provide the authorities that need money for these issues with the very resources they need. Then there was the issue of cyber incident reporting. I might add that when the NIS Directive is implemented, which will take place in the spring, the obligation to report cyber incidents will be extended not only to the state authorities but also to suppliers and thus a large share in the private sector. We will get an even better picture of what we are actually exposed to every year. The strategy has been adopted. Four official assignments were decided on the same day. It is not just a goal, it is also a question of money. The government has put the whole issue of contracting and procurement in a separate track. There is also an enormous amount of work to be done there. For many years it seems to have been some kind of self-interest to outsource, procure, privatize and put as much as possible outside the state. Anna Kinberg Batra was on TV and said it doesn't matter where the servers are. Yes, it does in some respects. What concerns our most important information we shall have control over. The lesson from what has happened at the Swedish Transport Agency is that the regulatory framework on these issues needs to be tightened up. The government has another entrance. Our entrance is not to privatize, outsource or outsource as much as possible. Our entry into the discussion is always safety first. That is what must apply to the handling of such information. That's why we do two things. One is that we have asked a special investigator, Stefan Strömberg, to review the question of where the limits are to make this type of procurement. He got that assignment last spring. The second is that this autumn we will come forward with a sharp proposal for consultation and veto rights for Säpo and the Swedish Armed Forces in these situations. When any authority is about to outsource or deploy certain information technology of this kind to other suppliers and in private hands, and it concerns this type of security sensitive information, it should be obliged to consult with the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Armed Forces. If the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Security Service say no, you cannot do this because it risks national security, then the authority must also obey. The proposal is therefore that there should be a right of veto for those authorities in those situations. It is a sharp proposal and a change to the regulation that we are going to come forward with this autumn.
i-cfaf681e95866446-45	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Justice, for the debate. I have two brief comments. The resource enhancements that are added to Must, MSB and FRA we do in fairly broad political consensus, I would add. It's part of the defense agreement. So it is not just the government that should be hailed here, I think, but it is also us in the opposition who have pushed for this because it needs to be strengthened. The second thing the Minister says is that safety is first and foremost. No one shares that view today, in this security policy situation. The problem with the Swedish Transport Agency was that they broke the law and that there were no sanctions. That's what was the cloun itself in the problem. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to mention a third aspect which is important in principle in the cybersecurity strategy but which is not actually mentioned. It is a question of whether Sweden should have an active or offensive ability in the cy ber environment. The Minister knows that it is clear in the Defense Committee and in the Specialization Bill that we shall have the ability to have some kind of retaliation if we are exposed to a large-scale cyber-attack. This is not mentioned in the cybersecurity strategy. I find that remarkable. If this function, the active or offensive cyber ability, is to be effective, it must be communicated. It's an ability we don't want to use, but we want our world to know about it. If it is to work, it must be communicated where, when and how it should be used. I therefore wonder whether the Minister has an idea of whether Sweden should have an active cyber capability and how, where and when it should be used. Are there any thoughts on doctrine or policy development in this area?
i-cfaf681e95866446-51	Mr President, I would like to We will have to come back to the latter in a specific discussion, because it is quite broad. In order to address the issue of possible sanctions and what can be done to those who do wrong, I would like to remind you that one of the things that happened after the events at the Transport Agency was that it turned out that there are sharp instruments for the regulator to proceed with when one needs to do so. When this was discovered, the Security Service opened a preliminary investigation that ended in a criminal prosecution and with the resignation of the then Director General of the Transport Agency. It is always better to prevent things than to have to come afterwards and investigate if it would lead to crime. That is why we are now presenting the proposal on consultation and veto rights for the Swedish Armed Forces and Säpo in all these situations. This means that nothing will be possible in this respect if the risks are identified by Säpo and the Swedish Armed Forces in the case of the Swedish Transport Agency. It is quite right that Pål Jonson says that this is a joint responsibility, which also means common money. I have no problem at all in saying that the arrangements we have made in the framework of defence policy are extremely good in many areas – the strengthening of military defence but also of civil defence, to see it in a wider context. There is more than 400 million more for civil defence per year now being cut off, and that is a huge sum to restore that part of the defence. I am sure we will have to come back to this issue. You should know that we work actively in the government to continue to strengthen cyber security.
