i-QgFpuFj7dmQ7Lru2Lbysfc	Your Majestys, Eders Royal Highnesses, Prime Minister, Minister, Honourable Members of the Swedish Parliament and Honourable People! Welcome to the opening of the Parliamentary Session and the opening of a new year, the last term of office. It is a festival day for our democracy; a day like this represents fundamental values for all of us. Swedish democracy will soon celebrate 100 years. It may seem to be a long time, but it is actually no more than a few generations ago that our democracy had its breakthrough. In the past, the right to vote did not apply to everyone, and when it comes to the right to vote for women, Sweden was even in the Nordic countries about introducing it. Democracy was not won without struggle then, and we cannot take democracy for granted to this day. We all have a responsibility to contribute to a strong and vibrant democracy. The decisions you elected MPs make in this House concern people's lives and the functions of society. Our way of working in Parliament and how we make these decisions are important parts of Sweden's democracy. One of the prerequisites for democracy to work is that we all agree on how it should work, that we simply agree on how parliamentary work should be done. It is therefore appropriate to note on this day of democracy that Parliament's order of business turns 400 this year. When the Riksdag met for the first time under a proper regulatory framework in 1617, it was Chancellor Axel Oxenstierna who had prepared the regulations. Since then, Sweden has had a parliamentary order decided by law, and it has of course changed several times. It is natural when society and the role of parliament change. The Riksdag has produced a paper on the history of the Riksdag, from Oxenstierna's first proposal to today's modern parliamentary system. The publication is distributed in the hall, and for audiences it can also be ordered or downloaded from the Riksdag's website. The Parliamentary Order sets the framework for Parliament's work. Clear rules allow policy and decision-making to be followed in an open process. It's good for democracy. It is a decision-making process preceded by a breach of ideas and political proposals in discussions around the committee tables or in debates at the front of the seats. Too often politics revolves around what is different. That is why it is important to highlight what unites. In many parliaments, the members of the parties are gathered separately in party groups, but in our Chamber we have a different order. Here you are all Members of the same constituency together, regardless of which party you belong to. You sit together because you represent the voters in precisely the 29 constituencies in Sweden that are yours. One example of a constituency, of course completely randomly chosen, is the eastern constituency of Västra Götaland County, or Skaraborg, as we usually say. People in Mariestad, Skövde, Tidaholm or Lidköping are represented by the ten members who come from that particular constituency. The ten are not only the votes of their parties, but also the voice of the party in Parliament. Such a voice is important. Voters from densely populated areas would probably not be without representation, regardless of the system used to distribute parliamentary mandates. But it is obviously important that all parts of Sweden have representatives who speak for them in this House. For example, Gotland, the smallest constituency, has representatives in the Riksdag. You 349 members are the entire Swedish Parliament. And this day, the opening of the Parliamentary Session and the holiday of democracy, is for both you in this Chamber and for all of you who are looking all over Sweden. I request that His Majesty the King declare the Parliamentary Session open.
i-fac87d04c997d399-13	Mr President, I would like to Honourable Members of the Swedish Parliament! Public power must be exercised with respect for the equal value of all human beings and for the freedom and dignity of the individual. This is what the government states, the constitution that describes how Sweden should be governed. Our country has more than 10 million inhabitants with varying backgrounds and experiences and with different dreams of the future. Around one fifth are children and young people under the age of 18. Almost as many have been born in another country and have immigrated here as a child or as an adult. All these individuals together form Sweden. These are the people you represent here in Parliament's Chamber. You are the greatest representative of the people. It is a big and responsible task. It requires courage and integrity, and it presupposes a good will to find constructive ways forward. Mr President, I would like to Honourable Members of Parliament! Every time there's a question of fate. 100 years ago, in 1917, Europe was at war. Our country was spared the war but still suffered a severe shortage of food and supplies. The following year the Spanish flu arrived in Sweden. Thousands of Swedes, mainly young adults, had to put their lives to death. Fifty years ago, at the end of the 1960s, the Cold War was in full swing. Today we face new challenges and other threats to peace, security, welfare, health and the environment. For example, many of us may be concerned about the recent increase in security policy tensions. Sweden's place in the UN Security Council is an important opportunity for our country to contribute to peaceful solutions to the world's various conflicts. The challenges of our time are significant. There is no doubt about this. But it may be worth recalling that history gives some reason for optimism. Peace has been done, epidemics have been cured, prosperity has grown and human rights have been strengthened. As developments progress, we are also approaching solutions to several of the crucial issues of our time, not least in the field of the environment. The question is no longer whether we can achieve more sustainable development, but how we can move forward, how quickly, with what technology and at what cost. Against this background, there is every reason to look forward with confidence. I began by highlighting the form of government. One key word in that quote is respect. It is also a good starting point for the public discussion: to treat each other with respect, even when we sometimes think differently. With these words, I wish you all the elected representatives of the people of Sweden the power, courage and wisdom – this in order for you to carry our nation forward in a development that is favorable to everyone in Sweden and help everyone to realize their different dreams. I hereby declare the 2017/18 Parliamentary Session open.
i-fac87d04c997d399-22	I'm ordering the Prime Minister to make a declaration of government.
i-Sd5MwbVLNqNf63nmnKsgA2	Your Majestys, Your Royal Highnesses, Mr. Speaker, honored members of the Swedish Parliament and honored listeners! The challenges of our time are difficult, such as the acute nuclear threat from North Korea, the humanitarian disaster in war Syria, the climate crisis and the famine in eastern Africa and Yemen. Uncertainty and insecurity are tearing people around the world. The need to jointly build sustainable peace and resilient societies is more evident than ever. Then Sweden's efforts will also grow. Sweden has a year and a half left in the UN Security Council. Respect for international law, democracy, human rights, conflict prevention and confidence building measures guide the work. Our security policy line is solid. The military freedom of alliance serves our country well and contributes to stability and security in northern Europe. More women are needed in UN peacekeeping operations and at the negotiating tables where peace is to be concluded. Sweden continues its work for sexual and reproductive health and rights. The world's first pronounced feminist foreign policy will continue to deliver. A strong Europe, where everyone takes their share of responsibility, increases security and the ability to face major global challenges. Sweden is working to ensure that the UK withdraws from the Union in an orderly manner. We need a continued strong Europe that stays together. In November, I and the President of the European Commission are hosting a summit on fair jobs and growth. Employees should not be put against employees in Europe. Strong Nordic cooperation is an obvious part of our international commitment. Sweden is pushing for the goals of Agenda 2030 to be achieved. During the year, new milestones will be developed in the Swedish environmental objectives system. The 1% target for aid is reached in 2018. More force can be put in place to prevent armed conflict and to meet the urgent humanitarian needs of the world. The countries of the world have a shared responsibility for people on the run. The EU needs to achieve a new, common, humane and solidarity-based asylum policy. The right of asylum must be protected. Sweden must have regulated immigration. The Government's efforts to improve return continue. Processing times should be shortened, and those allowed to stay should be able to start working or studying more quickly. At the moment, the largest Swedish Armed Forces exercise is taking place in 20 years, with 20,000 soldiers and officers, about 40 authorities and a broad participation from several countries. Sweden's defence capabilities are being developed. Our bilateral and multilateral defence and security cooperation is deepened. As part of the reintroduction of military service, 6 000 young men and women are now called to the Board, and more have volunteered to the Swedish Armed Forces. After the turn of the year, the first are moving in for basic education. That makes me proud. The security policy situation has deteriorated. The illegal annexation of Crimea and Russian aggression against Ukraine violate international law and challenge the European security regime. International terrorism and climate change threaten us all. Sensitivity has increased for disturbances in important social functions. Priority is given to information security work. The Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Security Service are given tools to stop the outsourcing of sensitive information. The new national security strategy will be implemented. Our country should also be safe in a new age. Let me take this opportunity to thank the parliamentary parties that have contributed to broad agreements on stronger overall defence, energy policy, a climate policy framework and anti-terrorism measures. We build security together – in Sweden and in the world. Rachel Carson, author of the pioneering book Silent Spring 1962, has written: Those who contemplate the beauty of the earth find their power reserves that will last as long as life There is something infinitely healing in the recurring chorus of nature – the comfort of dawn coming after night, and the spring after winter. Rachel Carson was an eye opener, but she also gave hope. We can mess things up, we humans, but when we decide, we can also make things right. We can set it up. The climate crisis is here and now. The water shortage in Sweden, the Lucifer Lucifer wave in Europe, the drought on the Horn of Africa and Hurricanes Harvey and Irma are scaring. Extreme weather events follow in the wake of climate change. The climate can't wait. The transformation of society must be accelerated in order to secure opportunities for future generations. Sweden now has a new climate policy framework with a progressive climate law. It also sets targets and directions for future governments and guarantees continued high climate ambitions. During the term of office, the budget for environment and climate change is more than doubled. The climate life is amplified. Around the country, charging poles for electric cars are popping up in more and more places. Solar cells sparkle on many villa roofs, and more will be. Groundwater resources need to be mapped and drinking water protected. Wetlands shall be constructed and restored. Now an offensive is also being made to protect the seas. Plastics, pharmaceuticals and nutrients should not destroy our seas. The protection of marine areas is extended. The Baltic Sea and the Western Sea must be clean and healthy. Sweden shows leadership in the implementation of the Paris Agreement. We show that it is possible to combine ecological sustainability with welfare, justice and development. Mr President, I would like to After the 2014 elections, the government inherited a deficit of 60 billion. It has now turned into a surplus. Unemployment has been pushed back. There's $200,000 more going to work. Employment is the highest and dependence on compensation systems the lowest since before the 1990s crisis. The Swedish economy is in a completely new situation. Now we have the strength to both pay off the public debt and invest in what builds Sweden stronger for the future. Together we will fight the climate crisis and environmental threats. Together, we will fight insecurity and injustice. Together, we will secure future jobs and prosperity. Now is the time for building the future. The gap between town and country is to be closed. It will be possible to work, run a business and get community service regardless of whether you live in Visby, Vårby gård or Vittangi. Throughout our country, there should be opportunities to participate in and practice cultural activities. Culture makes people grow and strengthen democracy. Lower fees and lower thresholds to the cultural school give more children the opportunity to express themselves in words, images, tone and movement. Theatrical activities Young Klara becomes a national theatre institution for children and young people. The Royal Opera, Dramaten and Riksteatern provide funds for more digital broadcasts of theatre and music performances. Artists' conditions are improving. A new media policy for a diversity of free media throughout the country is presented. In Sweden it should be possible to find a home when you get a job or a study place. Not since the days of the million-dollar programme has so much been built as today. The government's investment aid now provides more rental apartments with reasonable rental levels. More homes will be built in wood. It reduces climate impact, and jobs are created throughout the country. The trend of centralization is over. Now the biggest relocation is being made by authorities in over a decade. At least ten new local service offices are opened to provide a comprehensive service from several authorities. A new rural policy will be presented during the year. The forest should be cared for and contribute to development. A national forest programme is presented to enable forests to contribute to the growth of the bio-based economy. More natural forests are protected, and conservation considerations will increase in the used forest. Visitors' enterprises are stimulated. VAT is reduced for nature guides. Food production is increasing and creating new jobs. 30 per cent of Swedish agricultural land should be organic by 2030. With living forests and diverse nature, biodiversity can be improved. The infrastructure connects the country. It will be possible to travel sustainably and arrive in time. Record investments are made in railways and road maintenance. A national transport infrastructure plan up to 2029 shall be decided. New modern high-speed rails will be built. The train should be faster than the car and cheaper than the flight. The broadband deployment will continue at a high rate. The economic strength will come to everyone, throughout the country. Sweden should stick together. Paralyzing unemployment and hopelessness pave the way for crime, polarisation and extremism. It cannot be accepted anywhere in our country. I say to residents in suburban, utility or rural areas: We turn this development together. How new arrivals are integrated into jobs and society will mean the difference between poverty and belief in the future for tens of thousands of people and affect the future for all of us. The Delegation against segregation begins its work. Municipalities, county councils, regions, authorities, organisations, researchers and of course those who live and work in socially vulnerable areas should work together. Resources are increasing significantly to schools and students with the toughest conditions. The reconstruction of our million-dollar program areas is continuing. Where the need is greatest, support should be strongest. Mr President, I would like to Organised crime has no place in Sweden. Society should always be stronger than the gangs. Next year will be the 21st century's biggest investment in Swedish police. Sweden cannot afford police to leave the profession. The Police Authority has been tasked with improving the development and career prospects of police forces together with the trade unions. The police effort will make a difference, and then the whole legal chain will have to follow. I can therefore inform the Swedish Parliament today that the Government's budget includes additional investments of SEK 750 million to strengthen among others SOS Alarm, customs, the Security Service, the Swedish Prosecution Authority, the Swedish Financial Crime Agency and the Criminal Service. More crimes will be cleared up. It will be more difficult to be a criminal in Sweden. The penalty for serious gun crimes is sharpened. The closed youth care system is expanded with more places. New sanctions are proposed for young criminals. The protection of blue-light personnel and health professionals shall be strengthened. Our common message is: Don't touch our heroes!
i-fac87d04c997d399-66	Most of us have vivid memories of what we did that afternoon. Society joined behind those who worked to help those affected. People opened their homes. We were many who met and supported each other, sad, yet determined, as if we wanted to say: This is our city. It's our country. No terrorist can take that away from us. Let us remember the victims and honor their memory. And let us fight terrorism with the power of Swedish democracy as a whole. The Security Service shall have access to intelligence from signal reconnaissance in parallel with the ongoing pre-trial investigation. Participation in a terrorist organisation shall be criminalised. A national centre against violent extremism shall be established. Sexual crimes are despicable. A new sexual crime law based on consent is presented. Children are children. No children should be married in Sweden. Protection against child marriage will be strengthened. Marriage trips are to be stopped. Offences with honorary motives should lead to stricter penalties. Religious extremists should not gain ground in public spaces, nor should they decide where women may be or how to dress. Every woman in Sweden should be able to live as she wants. Proud, straight, of course. Sweden should be safe for everyone. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish labour market is hot. Investments are increasing. Industrial manufacturing moves home. Swedish exports show new record figures. Real wage increases are good. Next year, unemployment is estimated to fall below 6% for the first time in nearly ten years. The target is the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. Sweden is facing two major challenges at this stage. The first is that employers find it difficult to find the right skills. There are over 100,000 job vacancies, and the list of shortage jobs is long. Further reductions in unemployment require even greater investment in education and training. The knowledge boost is built on to cover nearly 80 000 training places during the term of office. Learning centres should be developed so that more people can study remotely. The study allowance will be increased. The possibility of taking out CSN loans for driving licences is introduced. How we equip Sweden in the global and digital economy. Sweden is competing for future jobs with knowledge and competence – not with low wages. It will pay to work, and it will be possible to live on your wages. There should be order and order in the Swedish labour market. It's the Swedish model. The second challenge is to shorten the way to work for new arrivals. Here, Sweden's employers can do a lot. It has never been as simple as it will be now. The employment support is merged and simplified. The additional services will increase. Aid to firms that make their first job is increased. An education obligation is introduced. Those who do not have sufficient knowledge to get a job during the start-up period will be trained. Foreign born women are needed in the labour market. Special efforts are being made to increase the number of women in employment. Parental allowance has changed so that the majority must be paid during the child's first year. The outreach activities are expanded as is the opportunity to learn Swedish during parental leave. Work for healthy workplaces and rapid rehabilitation is now producing results. The ostentatious sickness rates have been slowed down. An Agency for Safety and Health at Work is established. More measures to improve working conditions and balance between leisure and work are being investigated. Barriers for people with disabilities will be dismantled and more job opportunities created. Everyone who can work is going to work. Everyone is needed in the construction of the future. Swedish industry should be the leader when climate, globalisation and digitalisation require a rapid transition. The Innovation Council's collaboration programme initiates a number of initiatives to ensure that Swedish industry will develop tomorrow's attractive products and attract foreign investments. Swedish testing and demonstration facilities are being developed. The Government's export strategy helps Swedish companies to win deals all over the world. Sweden shall be a pioneer country for free and fair trade. Emissions from industry are to be reduced. The process industry is being given new support for innovative projects and green technology leaps – an Industrial Kliv. A strategy is being developed for the transition to a circular and bio-based economy. Renewable energy production is expanding. Together with the Swedish automotive industry, an extensive investment is being made in electrification. The fleet needs to be modernised in order to get away from petrol and diesel. An extended bonus makes it cheaper to buy a car with low emissions and more expensive to soil. An electric vehicle premium is introduced so that more people can drive an electric moped or an electric bicycle. Climate change is the basis for tomorrow's jobs and well-being. Sweden will be transformed into the world's first fossil-free welfare country, and we will do so with the help of our old, honest and hypermodern industry! Swedish industry has not invested this much since the financial crisis. At the same time, we know that economic cycles come and go. Therefore, it is now high time to prepare and equip the industry for the next recession. A competitive system for short-term work is being developed to secure industrial jobs. Entrepreneurs' security conditions are reviewed and strengthened. The investments in knowledge from preschool through vocational education and training to research are the basis for a competent Sweden when competition hardens. Mr President, I would like to Now Sweden is growing. Many have immigrated to our country. We live longer, and more babies are born. It's a sign of strength. Welfare Sweden needs to be expanded. Since the government took office, 100 000 more people have been employed in welfare. This makes Sweden safer. By 2020, the contribution of resources to welfare will have increased by SEK 50 billion. Massive recruitments in healthcare, school and care can be made. For each new doctor, more severely ill people do not have to wait for an appointment. For each new assistant nurse, there will be more safe elderly people who know that someone will come when they need it. For each new teacher, more children are given the opportunity to crack the code, understand the principle, overcome a difficulty and feel that magic: Aha! This makes a difference every day. It takes precedence over tax cuts. This is how we build prosperity together and at the same time a sustainable society for a new era. A couple of weeks ago I met Class 3A from Nälsta School. We met at the Department of Narrator in Husby. There they work with one of the most crucial things for children's learning, namely conquering the language, writing and telling. I was there with my wife as a volunteer. Mission: Peppa, inspire and take children's imagination seriously! I have to thank the children for all the inspiration I got back. The learner needs to read. A read-count-write guarantee for the early years is laid down. More school libraries are being staffed. More power will be put into source criticism. Sweden starts school at the age of six. Special education is strengthened, and more special teachers are trained. The school should be a safe learning environment. All students should learn more. School is no longer plagued by cuts. Despite lack of teachers and large children's litters, staff density is now increasing. The number of employees at school has increased by 20,000. Children's groups in preschool are the smallest in 25 years. Three out of four qualified teachers in primary and secondary school have received a substantial salary increase. More roads are opened to become eligible. At last, more people want to be teachers. The School Commission has submitted the most elaborate proposal to develop Swedish school in decades. It lays the foundation for an equal school with high knowledge. School segregation is to be broken. The school should be a meeting place for students with different backgrounds. New arrivals are distributed more evenly and also to free schools. Continued major investments are being made to make all schools good schools. More young people are going to finish high school. The introduction programmes are strengthened so that more people move to national programmes. All national programmes receive aesthetic topics. Professional packages should be developed so that more people who fail upper secondary school degrees can take a shorter education that provides jobs. Vocational programmes are improving and basic higher education qualifications are reintroduced. If you ask people what is really important to them, most people answer: a tt get to be healthy and that the family is well. But when someone becomes ill, there must be no doubt: Care should be there when you need it. The queues are too long and should be shortened. Primary care is strengthened through more resources for health centres. Patient contracts are further developed for patients with high care needs. Hospitals are specialised to provide high-quality and state-of-the-art care. Where you live should not play any part in the possibility of getting well. A great effort is being made on women's health. Future parents should be able to be confident about the functioning of maternity care. The mental illness is crawling down at an age. Young people who feel bad should be caught up early. Care professions should be attractive. Working conditions are improving. More training places are created. The introduction of a licence for nurses is being investigated. The employees in the care should be given the recognition they deserve. Nothing symbolizes the future as our children. This autumn's budget gives priority to the finances of families with children. In order to safeguard the child's right to his or her parents and contribute to gender equality, parental insurance is modernised. It should also work for star families and not lay hooks for women in the labour market. Work on making the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law on 1 January 2020 continues. A three-year national initiative on children's rights is being carried out. Children should also be able to breathe fresh and clean air. In order to improve urban air quality, municipalities are given new opportunities to introduce environmental zones. Sweden should be the world's best country to grow up in. None deserve our gratitude as our elders — those who built the land before us. They deserve respect but also financial security. Much has already been done: higher housing allowances, cheaper dental care for the elderly and free primary care for those over 85 years of age. Let's move on. A national strategy for dementia is being developed. The economy is improving for the most deprived pensioners. Six out of ten over 65 years of age have already received reduced taxes. The aim is to abolish the unjust pensioner's tax altogether. New steps are being taken in the autumn budget. This is not kindness – it is our moral responsibility. Welfare shall be financed jointly and in solidarity. Everyone who has income should do their own thing and pay taxes. Otherwise, the social contract does not work in a welfare country. Tax evasion and aggressive tax planning are combated. Security systems are better protected against fraud and fraud. Tax on welfare should go to welfare and not turn into unreasonable profits or be taken out of the country. During the year, a proposal is made to limit the benefits in school and care. There should be order in the welfare. Mr President, I would like to In the middle of the field in the extermination camp of Birkenau stands a red cattle wagon. In such a way, Livia Fränkel m ed his sister Hédi Fried came to Auschwitz on May 17, 1944. They had traveled for three days and two nights without food and with very little water. In June we were in Auschwitz-Birkenau together, Livia Fränkel and I. It was the first time she was back. "I want to close the circle," she said. I want to say goodbye to my parents. ..................................................... We have a duty to remember, because if we do not remember the abuse of history, the violence and hatred can prevail again, and then another circle is concluded. On May 1, this year, approximately 500 Nazis demonstrated in Falun. The Nordic resistance movement was in place during Almedalsveckan, and soon they will gather in Gothenburg. It's scary. Now the government is pooling its efforts against racism and hate crime in a national action plan. Support for schoolchildren's remembering trips will be reintroduced and a new international conference on remembrance and education will be held in 2020. There are groups in our country that are more afraid than ever. The safety of minority groups and religious premises shall be increased. Work on the rights of transgender persons is strengthened. Protection is increasing against hate and incitement crimes. The rights of national minorities are strengthened. A big bet is made on the Sameting. A new function-sharing policy will lead the way to a more equal society where people's different backgrounds or conditions do not determine opportunities for participation. In country after country, polarisation is now increasing. Disbelief in democratic institutions is growing, in the face of doubt, the tone is rising and the facts are being distorted. Our society's resistance to attacks by foreign power and troll factories will increase. The exposure to threats and hatred of journalists, elected representatives, artists and opinion-makers is dangerous. If it is somewhere and at some point every citizen needs to do his or her duty, it is right here. Never accept the unacceptable! Say it! Stand up for human dignity on the square and in commentary fields! Anti-democratic votes should never stand unresponsive. The free speech is to be defended. Step forward! We'll do it together. It depends on us. Together we have created and continue to create what we want Sweden to be by showing respect, humanity and warmth. Human dignity is the foundation. Mr President, I would like to Our government has led Sweden in a new direction. The goal is a sustainable community in which we care about each other and therefore also believe in the future. We don't send the bill to our children and grandchildren. That is how we want to continue to rule. The construction of the community is moving forward. The direction is solid: investments instead of tax cuts. Equality instead of divides. Together instead of each other alone. It's a building of the future for everyone.
