i-930b4bcea3d56278-0	Madam President, I would like The climate change alarm reports are doing well. 2014 was the warmest year ever recorded. The same was true in 2015 and 2016. Last winter the Arctic was exposed to heat shocks and temperatures of 20 – 25 degrees above normal. And we have recently received the Arctic Council report that we can see ice-free winters at the North Pole within 20 years. 20 years – that's 30 years earlier than you've estimated. What we are witnessing is not the small canary that warns of dangerous gases in the coal mine, but we hear a scream from the earth that we need to act now, before it is too late. The Arctic can be likened to a planet chiller that stabilizes the temperature. If the Arctic does not retain this role, it risks throwing the planet out of its stable state. We know that an unstable Arctic could lead to massive methane emissions from Siberia's tundra, changes in the Gulf Stream and very extensive changes in the conditions for many countries, including our own. We are already seeing major changes in the northern parts of our country. The snow period has been shortened by more than two months in some places in Norrland in 30 years. It affects tourism and reindeer nutrition, and it fundamentally changes ecosystems. Madam President, I would like I have seen the effects of climate change around the world, and I can say that it is the poorest people who are most dependent on the climate decisions we take in this House. They are the ones who are most dependent on rich countries taking responsibility and showing leadership. There may be a difference between life and death when the land is disappearing into the sea, when recurring droughts make the situation impossible, and when ever - stronger hurricanes sweep away the few possessions of these people. SOS Alarm 112 – that's where we call when it's really bad. But we are in a planetary crisis, and would it not be convenient if we could just call SOS Alarm 112 to get the situation under control? It almost seems that several parties in this House believe that that is how it works. But it doesn't. Instead, we depend on our own action. Only we ourselves can save ourselves – that we ourselves take on leadership and implement concrete policies that reduce emissions now and support the people who are most vulnerable. It's the only thing we can do. And that is exactly what Sweden is doing right now. The environmental party and the government have the goal that Sweden should take the lead and become the first fossil-free welfare country in the world. There is a global longing for this leadership. In connection with the Government's presentation of the proposal on climate framework and law, a picture of me and my employees was spread all over the world. This picture was not disseminated as part of a PR strategy. It was spread by people all over the world because of their longing for change, hope, responsibility and leadership. Sweden is now highlighted by global leaders as an important example. It can be seen that Sweden has stepped forward. With a feminist foreign policy, with our place in the UN Security Council and our climate ambitions realized both here at home and away through our climate assistance, Sweden's role on the global stage has been strengthened. We're an important voice. When the world's largest economy and the second largest emitter choose to turn a blind eye to the combined international climate research, we choose to prioritise and accelerate climate work within the government. When the same country builds walls, we choose to build bridges. When we sign climate agreements with California and arrange seminars with American business, we do so because we know that the real risk is climate change, not climate change measures. These climate measures bring great opportunities for economic development, jobs and welfare. Madam President, I would like We have never had a government with such an active climate policy. We are currently in the midst of a climate offensive where we are proposing a series of important measures. The Climate Act and the energy agreement on 100 percent renewable electricity generation by 2040 set the overall framework. It provides a long-term perspective for climate work that has never existed before. But the climate framework needs to be filled with measures. That is why we have proposed a change of fuel and an investment in electrification and local climate change throughout Sweden. I would like answers to some questions about things that I do not quite understand. Why do the Moderates, Christian Democrats, Liberals and Center Party want to hold back the power of transition? Why are you cutting off one quarter of the environmental budget? Why are you opposed to any proposal to reduce emissions from heavy road traffic and air traffic?
i-930b4bcea3d56278-10	Madam President, I would like Heat shock in the Arctic – temperatures of 20 - 25 degrees above normal. Ice-free winters at the North Pole in 20 years. 20 years. It's now. This is where we have to act. In Sandviken on road E16, Trafikverket has built the world's first electric road for trucks. Electricity lines have been mounted on the road, and pantographs have been placed on the roof of a hybrid truck from Scania. It is a classic tram technology that has been combined with a modern hybrid truck. It is simple but powerful and innovative but at the same time self-evident. I think a lot of people know about this project, and some have perhaps even been there to visit. But that is not my point, but how it has been financed and that it has become a reality. It is the Swedish Transport Administration that through procurement has given Region Gävleborg to hold the project. SEK 77 million comes from the state – Vinnova, the Swedish Energy Agency and the Swedish Transport Administration. 48 million comes from business – Siemens, Scania and others. Electric road is well suited for routes like the one between Gävle and Sandviken, where a large number of industrial companies have many regular transports from, for example, a port or railway node. Sweden is a leading country in the production and development of trucks. We can therefore all understand the importance for Sweden of this experiment. I note that we have political agreements to deal with the climate. We set tough targets – in Paris agreements and in Europe. And in Sweden we gather around a climate policy framework. But in the end, more will be needed. Innovation and investment will be required. It will require an economy that puts more people to work. This government has made sure that 200 000 more people have come to work – 200 000 more people who can pay taxes, which gives us income that this government has chosen to invest in climate change, among other things. It will require an economy with many different instruments that can change the way we live in order to build jobs and prosperity in the transition. It is in the country, in the companies and among the people who are taking the initiative and paving the way– which is the first– it will happen. The new jobs are created there, as well as new products that can generate export income. Social change is taking the lead in reducing emissions. It's really durability. Madam President, I would like With moderate government, new huge tax cuts await. We were told once again when the Moderates presented their Spring Budget exercise. This will be financed by dramatic cuts in the budget for environmental and climate investment. Can projects such as the electric road in Sandviken be carried out then? And what happens to the jobs that Swedish companies miss if they fail to invest? Where do they end up, and what happens to emission reductions? The Moderates – or why not the Swedish Democrats – may be able to answer those questions. The Swedish Democrats have taken the extended hand of the Moderates for cooperation very seriously and take every time they have the opportunity to change the majority in this House to have a little lower climate ambitions. So far, the Government's investments for Sweden have been the driving force in working with climate innovations – in spreading our ideas and our commitment. What does that mean, and how does it affect other countries? Minister of Climate Change Isabella Lövin had some examples, and I am sure that every dollar we invest in climate action will give many times back. Instead, if we choose the path of the Moderates, with major tax cuts instead of investments, it will lead backwards. It slows down social development. We lower Sweden as a forerunner and climate country. We could be an innovation country for the fossil-free. We could be the world's first fossil-free welfare nation. We can lead the way in realising the high ambitions of the Paris Agreement, but that requires a policy of investment. Madam President, I would like The climate crisis is mankind's most difficult challenge, and it is literally about everyone's survival. We Social Democrats and the government take on this task by developing Sweden into a sustainable construction of society. Jobs and welfare, caring for each other, people and the environment – it drives our climate commitment. For us Social Democrats, it is about equality, solidarity, justice and freedom. It is a moral responsibility that is about right and duty. It is we in the rich countries who are responsible for the greatest emissions. At the same time, we have reaped the greatest benefits while climate change impacts hit people in other parts of the world hardest – against poorer countries and poorer populations. It is therefore our duty to do the right thing and reduce our emissions so that others can have the right to welfare and development. The transition to a sustainable society is therefore morally right and our duty, but at the same time it means innovation, more jobs and improved quality of life here too. That is why we need climate investment. Moderates, along with Swedish democrats and other bourgeois parties – do not break the Swedish climate model! Don't stop climate investments!
i-930b4bcea3d56278-23	Madam President, I would like As has been mentioned here, the climate issue is one of today's truly major issues of destiny. Therefore, it is also very gratifying that we have a broad consensus between at least seven of the parliamentary parties, for example on the need to face climate change and the urgency of it. There is a broad agreement on the climate policy framework to be clubbed here in Parliament in a few weeks' time, and also on the targets for emission reductions to 2045. That's good, but when it comes to the approach – how to achieve the goals – there are differences of opinion. That, above all, is what this debate should be about. Madam President, I would like I would like to start by talking about what a pioneer country is in the field of climate change. A pioneer country is a country that is able to reconcile reduced climate emissions with growth, more jobs and a stronger Sweden. During the reign of the Alliance, greenhouse gas emissions decreased by nearly 20 per cent while the economy grew by 10 per cent. At that time Sweden was a pioneer country. Now we see how emissions increase instead, according to recent figures from SCB. A pioneer country is a country that makes sure to use its forces to solve problems, but without strengthening its weaknesses and thus risk aggravating or creating new problems. For example, a pioneer country makes sure to use abundant supply of forest raw materials to replace fossil-based materials, fuels and fuels, thereby reducing our climate impact. However, a former country avoids exacerbating the existing distance-related disadvantages of a sparsely, large and peripherally located country by taxing distance and transport. In one front country, there is the realization that the climate challenge is global and that a kilo's emission reduction is equally important regardless of where it takes place – and that an effective climate policy is therefore not about spending large amounts of taxpayers' money on expensive prestige projects with dubious climate benefits. The current government often beats its chest and talks about how much tax money it spends on climate policy, but it is actually completely uninteresting. The important thing is the result achieved. Madam President, I would like I see three areas in front of me where changes are needed. Firstly, we need to keep our climate policy in order. We need to know what climate benefits different measures bring, and we also need to be able to put the measures in relation to their costs in order to be able to choose the most cost-effective measures. When large sums are spent on measures with unclear or doubtful climate benefits, it is nothing more than a betrayal of the climate. We need to maximise the benefits of the funds used. The government makes a large number of the Climate Counties and how much money you spend there, but to a large extent this is unfortunately about plain placard politics. Evaluations of previous corresponding action programmes showed that they were not cost-effective and that many measures had been implemented anyway, but state aid. If the measures had been implemented even without State resources, the climate benefit per spent tax crown is zero – zero! We Moderates often talk about order in the economy, but if it is somewhere more order is needed, it is in climate policy. Secondly, we need to focus on proven cost-effective measures and realise that many of the most important efforts to reduce climate emissions rapidly need to be made internationally. Thirdly, we should use our strengths and avoid exacerbating our weaknesses. It is good that the government has presented a proposal for a reduction obligation for reducing emissions from petrol and diesel. I'd like to say that. We've called for it, and I think it's a good thing. The reduction obligation is to gradually replace fossil fuels with biofuels, for example from forests. This is a good measure, because it focuses on emission reduction. It is quite incomprehensible, however, that the government is still insisting on proposing a kilometre tax, because it is a tax at a distance and not on emissions. We have plenty of distance in this country, and a tax at a distance therefore entails great costs and serious competitive disadvantages for us. Another tax at a distance that is expensive and has very little climate benefit, but which the government persists in wanting to introduce, is the airline tax. What the government should do instead is to ensure that the biofuel mix is also started for aviation fuel, for example through a reduction obligation for aviation as well. Then emissions can be reduced without transport having to do so. Unfortunately, Madam President, it is clear that, with many of the measures proposed, the government is not particularly interested in reducing climate emissions effectively. The aim is often purely fiscal, that is to collect a lot of tax money. But if that's what you want, it would be more honest to say it. In other cases, as in the climate category, it is instead a matter of giving the impression of doing things by spending large sums of tax money without really knowing what use it is. So, Madam President, there is no precedent.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-37	Madam President, I would like Today, on the initiative of the Green Party, we are going to discuss climate policy, which we do quite often in this House. In a few weeks' time for a new climate debate – we will talk about the forthcoming climate law, which looks to be a reality. However, this debate seems to be about something else, judging from the explanatory statement submitted; it seems to be about weather. I thought I'd talk a little bit about it. I really wonder if one should justify a topical debate in the Swedish Parliament with the fact that in a place in the world it has been extremely hot for a few days, because it has actually nothing to do with climate change that it was very hot in the Arctic at a time of one year. One could look at the fact that the ice expansion has decreased by approximately 7% compared to previous decades – it is relevant – but the temperature in the Arctic in November 2016 is not relevant. The Arctic had roughly the same temperature in 1976 and 1958, so we can't say much about global temperature changes based on the weather in the Arctic in November 2016. In the same way, we can't say much about the temperature changes in Sweden on the basis that it was snow and hail well into May in the southern parts of Sweden. A serious debate on climate issues should not be confused with weather. I may think that this is not really the place to debate climate change. I think that we as politicians should discuss what measures we should take to reduce the risk of temperature changes. We already know what researchers think and believe about future climate change. We can go to the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences and read what they say. They have noticed a temperature change of about 1 degree globally and note that the studies available in the area indicate a continued warming rate of 1-4 degrees. This is what we know. Given that greenhouse gas emissions continue at this level, we will see climate change that can be anything from not very dramatic to dramatic in some parts of the world. Of course, Madam President, we must take this seriously. We need to discuss how we can prevent or reduce the risk of such a development and how we can reduce greenhouse gas emissions on the globe. Then I don't think we should start discussing what weather it was in a single place for a single year. Not all reports of when the ice will disappear are very relevant either. We have been able to read reports that the ice would disappear in 2010 and 2016, and we can certainly also read reports that it will disappear in 2030 or 2040. What we should be discussing, however, is what measures we should take to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at global level. I'll get back to that later, but now I thought I'd talk a little bit about government policy. The proposals that come from the government indicate that one chooses to start more from feelings than from a desire to change something in real life. If we were to proceed from rationality, we would not spend investigative resources and great words on a climate law that does not change anything and which both the Council of Law and other expert bodies have condemned as completely unnecessary. This would not re-launch ineffective measures such as climate change, which have already been tried and condemned. Nor would it launch sector-specific targets in the transport sector, even though these were also categorically condemned by both the Institute of Economic Development and the Council of Finance Policy, as well as ineffective measures that make no difference in a broader perspective, except that it will be expensive for taxpayers, businesses and people in rural areas. Madam President, I would like It is essential that the global perspective is central to the discussion of climate policy. Otherwise, there is a risk of doing much more harm than good. This is the case – if you pursue an isolated, ambitious climate policy, which you can beat your chest for in Sweden, you can actually do more harm than good. If we make it more expensive to produce goods in Sweden, more expensive to transport us and more expensive to move products in our elongated country from point A to point B– then you will find other markets to produce these products. In these markets it will be cheaper, and the production will generate greater greenhouse gas emissions. Thus, an unthinkingly ambitious climate policy can be bad for the climate – that must be in the back of your head. Carbon dioxide is not something we have invented, but it is a fact that scientists always struggle with when climate action is discussed. We should look a little more at this in Sweden. What we need to focus on is an effective climate policy aimed at reducing emissions globally. Where in the world they are decreasing is completely irrelevant.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-53	Madam President, I would like Climate change is one of today's major issues of destiny. That is why we are meeting for debate today. To solve this, policies are needed that make it easier for companies to increase their green investments – policies that provide more renewable energy to our factories and more environmental cars on our roads. A climate policy is needed that provides more bang for money and reduces emissions cost-effectively. The Center Party has such proposals, and we also have the experience. Unlike the government, we know that sustainable growth is a prerequisite for a good environment. While they want to fight small businesses and distances with high taxes and make it expensive, complicated and unprofitable to be an environmental friend, we know that everyday life has to work for people who need to pick up preschools, who sometimes need to shop and need to warm up their homes. A lot of people need a car sometimes. We want them to drive environmentally friendly. Therefore, we propose a green car bonus of SEK 100 000 for those who buy an environmentally smart car – that is to show leadership in climate policy and pursue policies that fit into the life puzzle. I have no doubt about the intentions of the government. The Green Party has high environmental ambitions, and that is a good thing. The problem is that it is not about who spends the most money, but about which political proposals provide the most climate benefit. A typical example is the government's investment in electric buses. 150 million has been invested so far – the result is seven buses. This is simply because the aid is not adapted to reality. In other areas, such as in the Climate Cave, it is shot with a shotgun. A few crowns hit right, but many others miss the goal. The WSP conducted an independent evaluation. It says that the money distributed does not stimulate new technologies and innovation projects but benefits existing technologies. Many times money is also given to projects that would probably have come off anyway, without support. These are typical examples of poor and expensive environmental policies. We also put money – a lot of money – but above all we put money where it works. We spend money on charging stations where cars actually charge, on environmental truck premiums, on energy stocks, on the railways and on the green climate fund. It is an effective environmental policy that produces results. But we don't really have to stand here and fight. The reality shows that when the Center Party had to control emissions, more people got a job to go to. With this government, emissions are no longer reduced. How can anyone be satisfied with that? When Sweden is now heeling off its leadership shirt in climate policy, this is because the government does not seem to understand that Sweden accounts for 0.12% of the world's population and 0.2% of the world's emissions. The only way for us to save the climate is to be a forerunner – to be something others want to copy. That's exactly what the Alliance did. We reduced emissions and increased growth. There is no country in the world that wants to copy the way in which the government is now taxing off growth. For the government, the most important thing seems to be to raise taxes, but for me the most important thing is to reduce emissions. The Green Party and the Social Democrats see Swedish residents and companies as a cash cow to tax. Instead, I see them as an ally in the climate struggle. That is why we are presenting a budget for green tax exchange. We raise taxes on what releases and lower taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. That's how we get green growth. Our investments on the railways, on an environmental truck premium and on more charging poles are just a few examples of areas where we invest more money than the government, and above all we make it much more accurate. I am also worried when Swedish industries come to me and want more but do not get a response from the government. When Swedish shipping comes to me and says that the government is completely passive on the international stage, I get worried because I know that Swedish shipping is the world leader in environmental technology. They want this change, because they know that it benefits both them and Sweden. If we had spent only half as much money on these negotiations as on that fight to join the UN Security Council, I know it would have produced results. The government must take the initiative internationally. We need to negotiate obsolete conventions on aviation. And the government must put all its weight into the EU negotiations currently under way which threaten the Swedish forest and the ability to use smart biomaterials to drive our cars on. The new rules could threaten the entire climate transition. I know it's not as sexy to work internationally. You can't cut as many ties. But it is a work that produces real results here and now. In his first government declaration, the Prime Minister said, "During his term of office, fossil emissions in Sweden will be clearly reduced." The trend is moving in the opposite direction. I dare to say that the government does not really carry out a green tax exchange. On the contrary, we are seeing a red tax increase. Now that the government beats its chest and congratulates each other for abolishing taxes that they have imposed themselves, such as the tax on solar electricity and biofuels, it is something that is not right in the government's climate agenda. That is why we need more centre policy in the Swedish Parliament.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-73	Madam President, I would like A few months ago I was standing on a bridge over the River Torag north of Bangladesh's capital Dhaka. There I saw the several - meter - high sand wall built to protect the multimillion - city from floods. Floods have become an increasingly serious phenomenon in Bangladesh as a result of climate change. Even now, millions of people have been forced to flee the countryside and become refugees in their own country. I thought, "A storm of sand against climate change." Could that help? No, it does not; it is not enough. Bangladesh would like help from us to build more dikes against the floods. But what we would rather do in the rich world is to take responsibility for our emissions – emissions that hit a country like Bangladesh here and now and create millions of climate refugees. When you read the report that came the other week about the Arctic and that it can be ice free within 20 years, you understand that there is a lot of urgency. Last year was, as you know, the hottest year ever, and the years before it has also broken the heat record. Climate Minister Isabella Lövin said here earlier in her speech that a lot is going on, and that is good. There is much that is happening in the climate work in Sweden, but much more needs to be done. We also need another way of implementing climate policy. For too long responsibility has been rolled over to the market and to individual consumers. But there is no invisible hand on the market that will save the climate. And as individual consumers, we are quite lonely when we stand there in the shop trying to save the planet. No, there is a political responsibility to demand. We need more common solutions. All policy areas must take their responsibility to transform Sweden into a social and ecological society. Minister for Climate Change Isabella Lövin mentioned the climate framework and the climate law, which will be clubbed here in a few weeks' time. These are good proposals, which we in the Left Party support. But we do not think it is okay that consumption-related emissions are completely outside the framework, i.e. emissions in other countries because of our consumption and that we travel by plane. Of course, all emissions must be counted, and we need targets and means to bring down all emissions, including those from our consumption. A concrete example is the rapidly increasing consumption of meat in Sweden with associated growing emissions. It is not okay for schools around our country to initiate vegetarian days and vegetarian weeks to be opposed by local politicians and interest groups. What if we in this House had voted in favour of the Left Party's proposal to reduce meat consumption and an action plan for reducing meat consumption? Then it would have been clear that we in the Swedish Parliament are behind reducing our meat consumption, because we need to take responsibility for the emissions that it leads to. It is not okay that the flight is entirely tax- and VAT-free while the train is subject to high rail charges. Of course, aviation emissions must be covered by the targets we set ourselves, and of course it must be much more expensive to fly than to travel by train. It is also not okay that we now have a government that wants to build Sweden's most expensive motorway project of all time, Bypass Stockholm, which will devour tens of billions of crowns that we would instead need for public transport. No, it's not okay that the price of travelling collectively has increased four times more than the consumer price index in the last 20 years. In all these areas, we in this House can make political decisions to ensure that we change the course towards a more sustainable society and, indeed, zero emissions, which we now have as our common goal. Much remains to be done. We are already at the eleventh hour in changing our society, but it is possible to do so. It is possible to do so if we take political responsibility for climate change, if we ensure that all policies really stay within the framework that our nature has set for policy. Consumption, meat consumption, aviation and mass carism are some examples of areas which today have incredibly large emissions and which do not have the concrete objectives and instruments needed. We need to transform Sweden into a social and ecological society. We in the Left Party are doing this with a red policy for green conversion.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-88	Madam President, I would like As has been said here before, climate change, the climate threat, is one of today's major issues of destiny. We can agree on that so far. It is imperative that we have some kind of political approach and an idea of how we can resolve this. It is both about managing the climate change that is taking place after all and about adapting society. Of course, we must reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere that have been far too large over time. In this context, there are two approaches that are directly counterproductive and perhaps even destructive. Both lead to passivity and have devastating consequences in the end. One is to close your eyes to the fact that it is a problem at all. The second is that you lose faith that it can be solved. Both of these approaches naturally lead to inaction. The basis for this debate is the Arctic and the changes that have taken place there. There is information about temperatures that are 20 degrees above normal and about water temperatures that aldrig has previously been so high. In February 2017, for the first time ever, growth rates were measured in northern Greenland. One can talk about that it is due to weather variations, but it is quite clear that something is happening, that something is wrong and that it is urgent to correct it. Madam President, I would like We Liberals have strong faith in man's ability to solve problems. It is quite right that the Liberals spend less tax on subsidies and subsidies in the field of climate policy. Our green climate policy is actually in the tax table and in the economic governance that we can get that way. It is a matter of responsibility based on knowledge and market economy principles. It is based on the 'polluter pays' principle and on a green tax shift with increased environmental taxes and reduced taxes on labour. It is about getting the most effective instruments for cost-effective measures. Against this, as we see it, is a red-green tax increase. We often talk about tax shifting even on the red-green side, but we only see tax increases. Tax from a distance and so on has been discussed, but it is not something that we think is constructive in this context. The Liberals fully support the fact that Sweden should be a pioneer country. As Rickard Nordin mentioned, perhaps this is our great opportunity or task in the world. With our knowledge and technology development, we will be a pioneer country and drive action also at EU and global level. It is important that we see the effects on jobs and competitiveness in Sweden so that we do not become so focused on being ahead and a pioneer country that we release that we ourselves have to create drivers for growth. It creates resources to be a pioneer country. It is also important to be able to see the whole picture of this. We are now discussing climate policy, but it is all connected. Another point that we in the Liberals want to emphasise strongly is the preservation of biodiversity. If nature and the world are to adapt to the climate changes that are inevitable, it is essential that we have a biodiversity that can withstand them. A high level of biodiversity is significantly more robust than a depleted biodiversity. Madam President, I would like We are at the forefront of international environmental and climate action, and we shall be able to take advantage of this as a competitive advantage. We note that during the eight years of the Alliance, from 2006 to 2014, emissions of climate gases decreased by 19%. It was a trend that unfortunately broke in 2015. I think we all share the frustration about the report and that it was still in 2016 so that we had the same climate emissions as before. It is not difficult to identify the biggest challenges. The first concerns the transport sector, where work is under way. Liberals have many proposals on this that I shall come back to. The second challenge is to reduce emissions from agriculture. Then we must bear in mind that we have taken up the objective of increasing food production in our country. It is a challenge in itself, but we believe it is possible. The third is that we need to put technology in place in the basic industry, that is, iron, steel and cement. It is about both technology development and processes. In the end, it was a prerequisite in the Environmental Objectives Committee that CCS could be developed – to capture and store carbon dioxide in the bedrock. This was one of the basic prerequisites for reaching net zero by 2045, on which we nevertheless agree.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-102	Madam President, I would like Yesterday, the Arctic Council's ministerial meeting in Fairbanks in Alaska, attended by Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström, concluded. The meeting confirmed the Paris Agreement, which was a good thing. Above all, it was good that the United States did not withdraw from the agreement. We can hope that Donald Trump and his Foreign Minister, who are former CEO of the big oil companies Exxon Mobil, now take climate challenges seriously. Together with the Nordic countries, Sweden is part of the Arctic Council, but also Russia, the United States and Canada. They are permanent members, while more are added as observers. The countries have been working together since 1987, and Sweden was the country holding the presidency from 2011 to 2013, during the period of the Alliance. Sweden was actively working under the Presidency to bring about a stricter regulatory framework for oil spills and security issues. The other day we heard in the media what has been mentioned here before, namely research reports that talk about how the ice around the North Pole is now melting rapidly. That is a serious signal that we must take seriously. Within 20 years, there may be ice-free summers in the northern Arctic Ocean. Currently, the ice from the glacier at Ilulissat in Greenland melts every day with a quantity corresponding to the water used by New York City in a whole year. The ice blocks that have been broken open block the entrance to the city's port and prevent the transportation of supplies to the inhabitants. The Arctic environment is important not only for the inhabitants of the region. The Arctic faces major challenges because the ice melts. Permafrost, which is characteristic of the Arctic, contains large amounts of methane. When the ice thaws, carbon dioxide emissions accelerate dramatically. It would be interesting if the Minister for Climate Change could comment on this a little. Sweden has pushed the issue of emissions reductions of soot because it attracts heat when it becomes black, and then the ice melts faster. We have previously worked on drawing up recommendations on the prevention of oil spills and developed instruments to ensure the Arctic states' preparedness for and response to possible oil spills. It would be interesting to hear whether Sweden is still pushing on this issue. As the ice melts, there has been growing concern that countries will start extracting oil in areas that are unable to receive oil spills. There are specific areas which are particularly sensitive and which should be protected against oil extraction. It is important that the Swedish Government works to protect the Arctic from oil spills. The Arctic is surrounded by the ice-cold Arctic Ocean, which lacks the ability to absorb oil at a discharge. Today, good practices for cleaning oil in the Arctic environment are lacking and therefore no extraction should take place in these particularly sensitive marine areas. In addition to the extraction of oil and gas in the Arctic, the mining industry is increasing. Mineral mining provides opportunities for more jobs, but at the same time enormous natural values and the living conditions of indigenous people are at risk. We Christian Democrats believe that there is a need for clearer guidelines for opening up new mines and for greater demands on the mining industry to restore the land and recycle and clean up the waste. Nor is it acceptable for the resources of the Arctic to be exploited by international companies without some kind of counter-claim for a restoration guarantee, tax revenue and jobs. The future and survival of indigenous peoples depend on our respecting different international agreements, such as the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. Madam President, I would like If we are to succeed in halting climate change while at the same time giving indigenous people the opportunity to live and operate in the Arctic areas, increased environmental efforts in the Arctic and dialogue with indigenous peoples are needed to ensure the sustainable use of natural resources such as fish and minerals. At the Arctic Council, the U.S. President's club was handed over to Finland. The Swedish Government can certainly continue to be a driving force on the climate issue together with the other Nordic countries, as well as Finland, which has the chairman's club, but also within the EU, even if the EU is not a direct member of the Arctic Council.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-114	Madam President, I would like I would first like to say a few words to Martin Kinnunen from the Swedish Democrats, who are nevertheless the third largest party in Parliament and who should have the time and be sufficiently paid to see what is the basis for this debate. These are not individual weather reports; they are a report presented to the Arctic Council. It is written by 90 researchers using 28 peer reviewers, who have done a thorough analysis of Arctic development between 2010 and 2016. The effects on the Arctic naturally affect the life conditions of the entire planet. I do not think it is strange that we are discussing this in the Swedish Parliament. To those who here have suggested that the government does not create more jobs, I would first of all like to say that 200 000 more people have got jobs and that the economy is doing very well. Emissions are falling in the national sector, which is outside the EU ETS and which we can influence. This is happening at the same time as the economy is growing and we have received a great many people in our country. Those who have been very reluctant to reform the EU ETS are the same people who here say that we should make emissions more cost-effective beyond Sweden's borders. We must be extremely active in all arenas, and this is the government. The EU ETS is crucial for reducing emissions in the process industry, the steel industry, the pulp industry and the cement industry. Here, Sweden has advanced very ambitiously so that we can now scrap emission allowances and thus reduce emissions and make it more expensive to release. The alliance parties would prefer to buy themselves free from conversion by making climate commitments using cheap emission allowances from developing countries. Just focusing on it, I think it's a bad idea. Uniti is a smart Swedish company that has started in Lund to make new Swedish electric cars. They aim to be cheap in production and purchasing, and the car is designed for a global market. Hybrid is a collaboration between SSAB, LKAB and Vattenfall for hydrogen-based steel production. This has the potential to reduce Sweden's emissions by 10 percent and at the same time create a completely unique product. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Energy Agency to promote innovation and support the initiative. Without commitment from the state, we would not be able to see carbon-free steel being produced right now in Sweden. Lantmännen's biorefinery in Norrköping is also fantastic to see. The potential for Swedish technology is that it is moving towards a circular economy. But without ambitious climate reforms and without some support to make these technological leaps, Sweden will not be a country at the forefront. This will provide our economy and business with unique positive competitive advantages in a world where we need to switch and where all countries are looking for smart climate solutions.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-123	Madam President, I would like Some of the bourgeois representatives in this debate have taken the Environmental Protection Agency's emission statistics as proof that their policy is good and that government policy is bad. This is far from order, and it's actually pretty stupid. For what do the statistics really say? Yes, the share of industrial emissions in EU policy decisions and in the EU emissions trading scheme is increasing. But the rest of the emissions – the part that Swedish politics hits – fell by 4 per cent last year. It is particularly gratifying that, despite the increase in the number of cars, traffic emissions are decreasing. Let us start from the industry. All emissions in European industry must remain under one roof. This ceiling is falling every year, and eventually, about 2057, allowances have run out. The fact that emissions in Swedish industry have risen within the EU emissions trading system does not mean that total emissions within the EU are increasing, as the amount of allowances is already pre-determined. Instead, this means that Swedish industry is among the least climate-burdening in the world and that it has been competitive and successful. We in Sweden should perhaps be a little concerned about these jobs and innovations. It is true, however, that we need to reduce emissions within the EU emissions trading scheme in general. This requires a stronger policy at EU level. Results are needed at EU level. But the Moderates, together with the other bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats, have recently resisted tougher demands. Surely it is a bit strong to criticise the government for the fact that emissions are rising in industry. It's even pretty stupid, and far from order. Madam President, I would like The truth is that we have never seen such a strong government on the climate issue as it is now. The background is given: The serious thing has happened. In the 2017 budget, including the spring budget, the government has proposed new investments in climate work, fossil-free travel and renewable energy of SEK 13.4 billion for the period 2017 – 2020. Investments are mainly made in four areas: local climate change, fossil-free travel, renewable energy and international climate investments. The local climate investment investment that the government has introduced – the new and improved Climate Mitigation – has been a success. Already 783 projects have been supported. It is about charging stations, fossil-free public transport solutions, bioenergy production and much more. Since the number of applications is so large, the government increased the investments to this end in the spring change budget by another SEK 500 million. There are now a total of 1.2 billion in 2017 for investments in Climate Change, which is estimated to reduce Swedish emissions by 1 1⁄2 million tonnes. I have not received answers from the Moderates and the other bourgeois parties to what happens to climate investments such as the electric road. The bourgeois and Swedish democrats opt out of climate investments and instead opt for tax reductions. The Center Party beats its chest when it comes to the party's fantastic climate ambitions. But how will the Center Party get these through when working with the Moderates, who have completely different ambitions? The Moderates have also opened up for cooperation with the Swedish Democrats.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-132	Madam President, I would like Let me start with the latest. Matilda Ernkrans beats his chest and tells him that Climate action will reduce emissions by 1 1⁄2 million tons. We spend 100 million more than the government on international efforts in this year's budget – that is, 100 million over a year. This reduces emissions by 1.7 million tonnes and takes place with a single decision and significantly lower costs. Madam President, I would like The focus of climate policy must be on reducing global emissions rather than moving them around. Tough special requirements at home, here in Sweden, may lead to reduced Swedish emissions on paper and within our borders, but it risks doing the exact opposite when it comes to global emissions. For example, if energy intensive production moves away from Sweden, it almost always ends up in countries where emissions are higher and the requirements are lower and where electricity generation is worse. There is a clear example that is sometimes mentioned of how paper could easily remove 10 percent of Swedish emissions, namely by shutting down the steelworks in Luleå and Oxelösund. But everyone realises that the steel produced there will still be produced but elsewhere in some other country, and then we have only moved emissions. In addition, we would probably make them worse because Swedish production is generally more low-emission than others. This example is, of course, somewhat absurd, but it still makes clear where the problem lies. It is an example in the big picture, but the same reasoning applies to the small one. Every small, efficient Swedish company that is knocked out by special requirements leads to an increase in emissions elsewhere. We need to think globally on these issues. Swedish special requirements are therefore often a bad idea. I'll tell you something about the Alliance's findings. As I mentioned earlier, it is about reducing emissions while at the same time having growth. I think it's extremely important. If we are to be a pioneer country and an example taken by other countries, we must combine these two parts. This is not just about the reduction of emissions. We know that the share of wind power was ten times higher when the Alliance left the government power compared to 2006. There were 15 times more environmental cars during the alliance years. The share of renewables in the transport sector was three times higher. The results are counted, and the results of the alliance years are clear. We managed to combine growth and reduced emissions. We need order in climate policy. There are at least two major problems with the government's climate policy. The first problem is that the government has no aggregate estimates of the total emissions reductions resulting from the policy pursued. I think that is quite remarkable, because that means that the government is actually fumbling blindly. If you do not have any calculations of what results the policy is supposed to give, how should you know if you are doing the right things and if you are doing enough? The second problem is that when calculations are actually presented, as was done for the climate economy after I had called for it, the calculations are based on, to say the least, doubtful assumptions. We'll bet the money where we know it'll do the most good. The stakes must take place where each bet crown makes as much use as possible. This means that measures need to be taken outside our country as well. I will say a few brief words about the measures we are proposing in addition to what I have already mentioned. We want to focus on reducing emissions rather than setting taxes at a distance. We believe, for example, that a reduction obligation for flights would be a good thing. We also believe that it is important to involve companies. We want to see a climate deduction for companies investing in CDM. We want a CCS strategy for carbon capture and storage for industry and a bioeconomy strategy. As I mentioned, we spend far more money than the government on international and cost-effective efforts.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-142	Madam President, I would like It's great that the Minister made it clear that it wasn't weather we were going to debate. I hope you talk less about weather in the future. I talked earlier about inefficient politics in Sweden can be harmful to climate work globally. I'd like to talk a little more about that. Instead of discussing tax charges, subsidies and government governance, we should try to invest in something that makes a difference. Today, the Paris Agreement is the basis we have. A lot of people beat their chests and really hope that this agreement will make a difference. I believe that many really believe in this. For my part, the Paris Agreement is definitely a basis for continued global cooperation, but there are many fundamental problems. The Paris Agreement consists of a huge number of promises, but no assurance that they will be fulfilled. These promises, therefore, where we do not know whether they will be fulfilled, will cost a great deal of money, which also reduces the likelihood that they will be fulfilled. If the different models for predicting temperature development for the next 80 years are correct, the current promises only change the final result by a few percent. There are very many different calculations, but I have seen data that heating can be delayed by maybe four years. All the data is extremely uncertain, but what we know is that what has been promised is nowhere near the targets. It is clear that almost everything needs to be done by further very strong reductions after 2030. We can take China, for example, which many people want to celebrate today because they have promised to invest heavily in wind and sun. But it should be remembered that the promises they have made in recent years mean a reduction, because China has built a great many wind turbines in recent years. They have cut back on new construction, because the efficiency of the wind turbines is very low. The works have a high capacity, but actual use is very low. You get out very little. The available data show that China is over 60% dependent on coal. As far as renewable energy sources are concerned, it is wood, charcoal and cow waste that people heat and cook with. The result is enormous air pollution that kills people. We can also look at Germany, which has also invested enormous money in wind and sun. You get a high capacity but a very low energy output, which means you have to invest in coal. That's what's happening today. If this work continues to be based on tax charges, subsidies and subsidies to developing countries, we will probably not achieve anything. If we in Sweden stare blindly at our transport sector and ban fossil fuels in the transport sector before alternatives exist, this oil will be consumed by someone else, as the Council of Finance Ministers states. What I think we need is a big investment in research into new green energy. Instead of subsidising expensive and inefficient wind and solar power, we need to start researching how wind and solar power can be effective in the future. We also need to research how we can get safe, cheap and efficient nuclear power. In the United States, gas extraction has increased extremely much by means of gas extraction. This has led to a significant reduction in gas prices. Gas is thus competing out coal, which has reduced emissions very significantly globally. Fractions in the United States have been of much greater benefit to climate change than many of the measures discussed in Paris.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-151	Madam President, I would like Sweden's emissions are no longer decreasing. It seems neither Isabella Lövin nor Matilda Ernkrans find a problem. I think it is a problem, and it is clear that we need to do more. This is why the Center Party proposes efforts both in Sweden and abroad: green car bonus, tax exchange, environmental car premiums, environmental truck premiums and much more. Matilda Ernkrans asks me how to get the Moderates to have environmental ambitions. Matilda and I sat together and negotiated what climate ambitions all parties in the Swedish parliament, or at least six of them, should live by. So we have the same ambitions. I don't understand the problem. One problem, however, is that the climate threat is sometimes overshadowed by other threats. When Putin equips, it is easy to forget environmental policy. But that's the wrong way to go, because when Putin equips his army, he does it with money from yours and my wallet. Almost half of our oil imports come from Russia. Every time we think about the gas station, we fatten the Russian bear. That is another reason why climate policy is becoming particularly important. This is an additional reason why the Center Party wants to support the electric car revolution and ensure that we get more renewable fuels, such as biogas. That is why we are putting forward a strong proposal for a 100 000 green car bonus for anyone who chooses an environmentally smart car. We invest in more charging poles and on environmental truck premiums. That is why the government's failure on the climate side is becoming particularly worrying. The Environmental Protection Agency's figures show – and this is the statistics we are going after – that, with current developments, we are only going halfway to the climate target for the transport sector. We are reducing emissions, but not at all at a sufficiently rapid pace. Every tonne of carbon dioxide emitted is an unnecessary emission. And every note sends money directly into Putin's pocket. I don't want to refuel dictatorship diesel. Then Stefan Löfven can go on any tank on Gotland – if our petrol money is sent to the Russian army, no defence appropriations will be sufficient. The government's proposal for a fuel change – or reduction obligation, as the technical term is – has good intentions. The only problem is that the long-term rules that the industry needs to make these billions of investments are missing. It is basically a wise system put forward by the government. The Center Party has been pushing for this for a long time. But the government must also understand that if we are to get Swedish production of fuel, the conditions must last longer than three years. It's possible with a reduction obligation. It is possible to pull that curve out, and the government must dare to do so. Security issues are another reason why parts of the government's climate policy make me so surprised. We in the Center Party are pursuing a local policy. We protect small-scale energy. We want people to be able to do a little more on their own and make a little more choices of their own if you want. But when the government introduces solar tax, that development is hampered. That the producer of electricity for his own use should estimate for it is as unreasonable as Isabella Lövin would estimate for the strawberries in her own garden country. Precisely the ability to fend for yourself is incredibly important in crisis situations. What do you think is easiest to decommission, 10 large production plants for electricity or 100 000 small ones? The day the crisis comes, then it is to the neighbor who has solar panels on the roof and battery storage in the basement that the whole block will go. That is why the solar tax should be scrapped, and that is why we need to support energy stocks. The policy of the Center Party goes hand in hand, from defence appropriations to climate policy. Our policy is locally cultivated, where people gain more power over their own lives. We know that's what matters. People want to make a contribution to the climate, and then we will always win. With more will, we win over bans and stupid treasures. That's how we face the threats, whether they come from the oil or the east.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-159	Madam President, I would like The climate minister Isabella Lövin said something true. There's no SOS alarm we can call. The responsibility lies here and now with us as politicians. I would therefore like to ask Isabella Lövin, who is responsible for these questions, a few questions. These are some crucial issues for solving the major challenges we face. I mentioned earlier that emissions from consumption are increasing sharply. It is the emissions from gadgets that we buy where emissions are emitted in India, China and other countries that produce those products. These emissions are far greater than those we report to the UN Panel on Climate Change. I want to know: when will we have concrete targets and funds for reducing emissions from consumption-based emissions? I would also like to know whether the government thinks it reasonable that the price of travelling collectively has increased four times more than the consumer price index since 1995. This makes it very much more expensive to travel climate smart than to travel by car. If you do not think so, what concrete measures does the government have to make it cheaper to travel collectively? Does the government think it is reasonable that meat consumption in Sweden has increased by 50 percent since 1990? Today, emissions from the livestock sector are almost the same as emissions from our 4.5 million private cars. They're close to 10 million tons if we add up all the emissions. There is no instrument at all to reduce emissions. Does the government think that's reasonable? When else are the proposals coming? To the bourgeois, I would like to say the following. When I listen to you, I think of a word that is not yet in the Swedish Academy's glossary, but perhaps we will try to get it in: Increased local climate investments are good, but they are not effective, so we dismiss them. Climate taxes are good, but not on flights and not on truck transport. Increased appropriations in the climate budget are good, but we still cut one in four environmental and climate chandeliers in the budget. You know what, it won't last. If you're a responsible party, you can't always explain yourself off and roll the responsibility over to someone else. I think you bourgeois have a homework to do here. We all have a homework to do on this important issue. But as far as you're concerned, it's about realizing that some people have to be involved in paying a little more. This could be about banks, high income earners, the aviation sector and so on. Otherwise, it won't work. I would like to address the Swedish Democrats and Martin Kinnunen and ask: How much longer are we going to do research to develop the most optimal technology that will save our planet? We know that renewable technologies already exist. It is cheaper to invest in wind power than in nuclear power, as well as coal and oil. Why, Martin Kinnunen, do you constantly question the basis for us to do something as soon as the climate issue comes up? No, this isn't the time to do it, and that technology isn't very good. I wonder: do you believe in climate change at all? Is it there? If it exists, we must act now. We have to act now. I mentioned the people of Bangladesh. I could talk about Sweden's children and young people. The climate issue is by far the most important issue for them. They have climate anxiety. It keeps them up at night. We must take those signals seriously and act here and now.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-168	Madam President, I would like As usual, we come to this type of funding discussion. One almost gets the feeling that from the Left Party, and former Matilda Ernkrans from the Social Democrats, it is an end in itself to end appropriations. On the Liberal side, it is the results that are important. When I discuss economic instruments, it does not necessarily have to be increased taxes and that we should provide subsidies and short-term subsidies. It has proved ineffective over time. There is nothing to refute this. We all agree that the focus must be on getting fossil out of the system. We can see that emissions are no longer falling. If you still look for the good news – and Matilda Ernkrans was well on it – you can see that emissions from transport are decreasing in Sweden. That's very positive. In this particular area, the Liberals have a number of proposals that we want to push further forward in the transport sector. Nevertheless, it is one of the sectors that we first set out in the Environmental Objectives Committee a clear target of 70% emission reduction by 2030. We have found that to be one of the lowest hanging fruits. It's about electrification of the fleet of vehicles. Perhaps the fleet of passenger cars is the closest one at hand. It's a development that's going on. We have in our budget a bet on charging poles. It's about biofuels. There we have a discussion about having to invest where it is most useful. Forests are a key factor. But it can also be said that it is perhaps difficult to believe that biofuels will be enough for everything. As far as aviation and heavier transport are concerned, we see that biofuels have a key role to play. When it comes to bonuses – Malus systems that have been discussed, we have said that we say no to that. We are still proposing on the basis that the polluter pays an increased vehicle tax on vehicles with the high emissions. Another proposal that we have now been pursuing for a few years is differentiated travel deduction. In those areas where public transport is a good alternative, it is unreasonable to have the same opportunities to deduct by car as in sparsely populated and rural areas. We have proposed increasing the benefit value of non-environmental cars. We believe in man, as I said before, and the consumer. Climate labelling of new cars could be very useful. After all, we believe that people want to choose right and do right. We want to test tolls on motorway routes where there are particularly good public transport options. This is not the same as taxing distance with mileage tax and national air traffic tax. As far as aviation is concerned, however, we are in favour of a European airline tax. One sometimes gets the impression that national aviation is the big problem. Sweden is a large country. There, aviation has a key role to play. It can also be noted that the year of domestic aviation had all-time-high in Sweden was 1990. The efforts made on rail and such things have had effects over time. It is an initiative that we want to continue. If you just focus on the level of funding and think that's the solution, you're on the wrong line. It is a question of having a green tax shift that leads to exactly the same thing.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-180	Madam President, I would like In my last speech I had a lot on the Arctic. I do not know whether the Government has the opportunity to give some of the answers in later interventions. Now I'm going to go over to the companies, which I think the Left Party is blacking out some. In fact, they are very much the driving force in climate action. According to the World Economic Forum's 2017 Risk Report, four of the five global risks that top the list are linked to the climate issue. These risks affect our economic growth and the stability of the world. The climate issue is a matter of justice, which is strongly linked to the world's economic and political situation. Companies are now ahead of climate policy. They have already realised that their survival as a company is based on their being at the forefront. We have companies with high sustainability goals and where innovation is a driving force that also contributes to increased profitability. Companies know that sustainability and environmental awareness contribute to business benefits. All of us people are consumers, but at the same time we are also voters. It is not many days since the Haga initiative – a network for the environment driven by companies – participated in Washington to communicate about the successful climate work on emissions that these companies in Sweden today run and run by. The members of the Haga initiative have also decided on new climate targets, namely to be fossil-free by 2030 in their own operations. The new targets mean that companies will reach zero emissions 15 years earlier than stated in the government's climate target. The ambition is to show that Swedish companies can reduce climate impact with increased profitability while contributing to new jobs and thereby increased welfare. Madam President, I would like We have to work on several fronts to reach the two degree target. We believe, for example, that decisions are needed on the simplification of the transition to renewable energy and on the simplification of electrification in the transport sector. We need tools for energy efficiency improvements. We need to decide on the pricing of emissions, but we also need to look at carbon storage as well as large-scale tree planting. The automotive industry needs to develop and market climate-efficient cars. The electricity and power industries need to invest in renewable energy. We can now see a change of course in current investment flows towards energy efficiency improvements and new low-emission technologies. This shows that political governance and long-termism provide security to support the work of entrepreneurs. During a recent hearing in the Parliament House that we Christian Democrats arranged for a year since the entry into force of the Paris Agreement, we heard a little about how to work in the steel industry. The Swedish-made steel, made of recycled material, reduces carbon dioxide emissions by 90 per cent. This shows that we can be at the forefront in Sweden if we use the type of production of iron as we do here in Sweden. If we can be at the forefront of climate-neutral iron production, it would be fantastic for the Swedish steel industry. Requiring climate-neutral steel in public rail projects would be a way of accelerating development. It could be interesting to hear whether the Government has any views on public projects and what we can do there to reduce climate emissions.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-188	Madam President, I would like There will be a lot of talk and a little climate workshop with the Center Party. Eight years the Center Party had to create long-term support for environmental cars, but it never happened. Instead, it became a temporary super environmental car bonus. With the Green Party in the government, we now have a stable system in place that makes it cheaper to buy good cars and more expensive to buy the worst emissions. And don't come, Rickard Nordin, with your super-environmental car premium of 100,000! You have not checked with the European Commission whether it can be implemented at all. You sat for eight years without long-term instruments for biofuels. You made a proposal, but it was withdrawn. Why? Because you had not understood that it was in breach of the EU acquis. We have worked hard and saved the situation, and now we have presented a smart proposal. The Center Party is happy to talk about biofuels. But it was when you were in the government that you introduced a tax on biofuels in 2013. Our government has now had to devote a great deal of effort to getting things right on this issue, and I am pleased that we can now remove the tax on sustainable fuels and present long-term rules to the whole industry. With the Center Party in the government, the Swedish people's allowances were sold at shame to international banks. What, then, was the benefit of climate action? With our government, the emission allowances that will be over are scrapped – almost equivalent to two years of Swedish emissions so far. The difference in climate policy cannot be clearer than that. The Center Party is talking about charging poles. With the Green Party in the government, the number of charging poles has increased by 300 per cent. Solelen looked like a rat's nest when we took office. Now we have cleaned up the regulatory framework, and investments in solar electricity have increased by 100% over the last six months.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-193	Madam President, I would like We're seeing a heat shock in the Arctic. Gigantic ice blocks detach from Antarctic glaciers and drift out to sea. Enormous rainstorms cross the southern slopes of the Himalayas and drag people, houses, and farms with them. Burning sun frys the food supply, and the water in the wells melts. The absence of rain in Africa creates famines of a dimension that we have never seen before. People are fleeing areas that are becoming more and more uninhabitable. We can talk a lot about emission reductions, carbon taxes, new electric cars, wind turbines and solar cells. But the fact is that for many people in the world it is already too late. Their lives have already been ruined by climate change. That is why I am proud that Sweden, with this government, is a major donor to the UN's Green Climate Fund. The global temperature increase, no matter what we do to reduce emissions, will have effects not only in the rest of the world but also in Sweden. These are the effects of the emissions that humanity has already made. We will see drought, increased rainfall and problems with our water and sewers. Buildings in beachfront locations will have to be forced to move. Climate change is here. Madam President, I would like Swedish climate policy delivers. It's something we should be proud of and talk a lot about. More should learn from Sweden, and more should join. Climate change is here and now. Our job – to save humanity as we know it on our planet – has only just begun. Now we have to speed up! Thank you for the debate.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-197	Madam President, I would like I think it sounds a little false when the Minister for Climate Change talks about the importance of the EU system. We agree that the European system is important. At the same time, the burden-sharing between the different EU countries must be reasonable. It was during this government that we ended up in a situation where Sweden would be one of the countries that would take the largest part. Sweden has already done a great deal, and the costs of doing more are therefore high. At the same time, for example, countries like Poland would have to do very little and Bulgaria would have nothing at all. It sounds a little false, climate minister. Matilda Ernkrans of the Social Democrats, as usual, criticises the tax cuts of the alliance government. However, the job tax deduction gave more people to work and also significantly increased tax revenues to municipalities. The municipalities are, of course, responsible for many of the measures that lie in the climate and which, as the evaluations show, also make investments even without state resources. This helps to ensure that the climate benefits of government investment and investment are often low or even zero. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, we broadly agree that we need to reduce climate change. We must face them, and we must reduce emissions. It is good that we are in broad agreement on this. At the same time, we do not agree on what to do. We believe that this must be done in a cost-effective way. We must be able to combine growth and a growing economy with reduced emissions, as happened during the alliance government. Only then can we get other countries to follow our example. An effective climate policy is not a competition for who spends the most tax money or who proposes the highest taxes or the most bans and regulations. It is about doing the right things to achieve as much climate benefit as possible. For the sake of the climate, Sweden needs a new government. Thank you for the debate.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-201	Madam President, I would like I thought I'd make a few comments. Isabella Lövin has beaten her chest here when it comes to 200,000 new jobs. It should also be borne in mind that the government has increased the population by much more than that during this period. Jens Holm made an outcome to the market, which I can understand that left-wing parties do, but we have thankfully no world government. Countries will struggle with different types of problems. There will be poverty, unemployment and air pollution leading to premature death for a large number of people, and there will be different priorities and competition. If they are to choose the right alternative for their energy supply, it must be cost-effective. I very much hope that better opportunities can be achieved in the future, but I believe that there is a need for substantial investment, and that investment is too lacking today. Madam President, I would like If I am to sum up this debate, I still think it is clarification in several ways. There is often talk of a very broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament on climate policy. And yes, it may look like that if you look at the proposal of the Environmental Objectives Committee, but the fact is that there is a clear dividing line between the socialist parties and us non-socialist parties, although the Center Party may be involved in disturbing some, when it comes to achieving a more effective climate policy that makes a difference without attacking jobs and growth. From the Swedish Democrats' side, we will continue to support all options that lead to a more effective climate policy that makes a difference and does not harm jobs and growth in Sweden.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-205	Madam President, I would like With the Center Party in the government, we increased the ambition of the green electricity certification system for renewable electricity. We adopted perhaps the world's toughest climate goals that we are actually about to meet in many ways, and we laid the foundations for the international climate negotiations that Isabella Lövin and the Green Party have taken on and scored in Paris, which was good. But it is obvious that Isabella Lövin also feels threatened, because if she has to spend two minutes here explaining why the Center Party has a bad policy, it is because reality has given the Center Party the right. With the Center Party in the government, emissions decreased and growth increased. With the Green Party in the government, emissions are no longer falling. It's so simple. Independent figures show this. Then we can bang each other in the head with how much money we want to spend on as many different things as possible, but reality has shown that the policy of the Center Party is more effective and gives more results for both growth and the environment. We quadrupled the share of biofuels. V i got an explosive development from an extremely small proportion of environmental cars to far more. I can continue to line up a number of different figures, but at the end of the day there is only one figure that matters, and that is the one that shows how emissions progress. And it is going in the wrong direction, because Swedish emissions are no longer decreasing. That is what makes me worried, and that is why we need to get to grips with this policy much better than this government does. Thank you for initiating an incredibly important debate in the Green Party, but thank you also to my fellow debaters for being here. It is we together who can make this difference, and I hope that the government will change up considerably more. It is needed for Sweden, for the world, for the climate and for security.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-209	Madam President, I would like We don't really have time anymore for fine speeches about the climate. We need action here and now. I mentioned in my first speech the millions of people who have already become refugees in their own country of Bangladesh. I could have brought up the war in Syria, which is now in its sixth year. We know that that war was preceded by a few years that were the hottest ever in Syria's history and that more than 1 million people had become refugees internally in Syria. The fact that we have a hotter world and more extreme weather is known to be a direct consequence of climate change. We also have more refugees, more anxiety and more war. That is why it is so important that we here in Sweden are reminded of the effects of climate change so that we can act here and now. I spoke earlier about the need for political decisions to change Sweden. I heard Mrs Pethrus mention the Haga initiative, and I think it is fantastic about the climate target adopted by the companies in the Haga initiative. We will cooperate with the companies, of course, but the concrete decisions to switch the housing sector, electrify the vehicle fleet and get 100 percent renewable energy without gulping with nuclear power must be made here in the Swedish parliament. It is the common thread of climate policy that we need more political action. I would like to thank the Green Party for the initiative for this debate. It has been important and to some extent clarifying. Now I hope that all of us can do our homework and that we can sharpen Sweden's climate policy so that we can really make sure that we switch to zero emissions as soon as possible.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-214	Madam President, I would like I will agree with Jens Holm in the final stages of the debate on one thing, and that is that passivity is our worst enemy. That's what I mentioned at the beginning too, that we all have some kind of homework to do. We have global problems and, of course, they require global solutions. The Paris Agreement was a major step in this direction. The great uncertainty now is, as we all know, where the United States is going with the new President in place. The fact that the Arctic Council recognises the existence of the Paris Agreement is perhaps a good thing, but of course all States must now stand up to implement the Paris Agreement. In Sweden, the Environmental Objectives Committee has developed a climate policy framework with ambitious goals agreed between the Liberals and six other parties. It must reasonably drive the development in the right direction in Sweden, and it is now on Parliament's table for decision in June. We can always discuss whether these target levels are too high or too low, but on the Liberal side we definitely think they are so ambitious that they will push forward in the right direction. It is a matter of these clear objectives that will enable the necessary technological shifts to become a reality. It is, in fact, about counting backwards in some way, not how far we can reach, but how far we must reach. If we are to proceed on the basis of the Paris Agreement, it is a question of doing well below two degrees and working towards one and a half degrees. That calls for a lot of action. In this context, the Liberals see general and technology-neutral economic instruments as the main success factor. It is about CO2 taxes and reinforced emissions trading. I would also like to thank you for the debate.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-221	Madam President, I would like Last year, problems of water scarcity on Öland became acute. Tankers with water drove around the clock from the mainland to Öland. The two municipalities of Öland had to spend a total of SEK 150 million to save the water supply on the island. The sum is comparable to whether Stockholm County's municipalities would receive an unexpected expenditure of SEK 13 billion. Sweden needs to plan for climate change. There is a need for preparedness to cope with acute crises in the form of floods,slides and water shortages. There is also a need to adapt agriculture and forestry to the changing climate. Madam President, I would like In June, the Riksdag will decide on the climate policy framework that the Environmental Objectives Committee has developed. The consensus of the politicians in the Environmental Objectives Committee was important. A common approach to the climate challenge is also an important signal to companies. Many municipalities are ahead of national politics and drive development forward. Sweden has every reason to continue to be a leader in the climate issue. I hope that the government will make use of the potential of both entrepreneurs and politicians in Sweden's elongated country. For the Christian Democrats, sustainability issues are central. In our ideology of stewardship, we realise that we must manage the earth for the future of our children and grandchildren. It is for future generations that we as politicians must act. However, there is still, as many have been concerned, a concern that climate emissions in Sweden have increased by 1.7 per cent, as we recently heard from Statistics Sweden. It's a trend break. What's the government doing wrong? I hope that the government, like all of us in this House, will continue to put the climate issue high on the agenda. Thank you for this debate.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-231	Madam President, I would like It was empty in the drawers at the Department of the Environment when we entered the government. There are no climate proposals to work with. There was basically no climate policy. There was not even a climate target beyond 2020. The Green Party in the government has made sure that a climate law and clear targets are in place. This makes it impossible to give priority to climate action for future governments. We show clarity for municipalities, for companies and for households. We show leadership to the outside world. We have so far strengthened the environmental budget by 82% over the years with the Alliance Government, and we have received a receipt for that policy. When the Environmental Protection Agency has looked at what our government's policy means, they say that we now have a chance to plug the emission gap that the Alliance government left behind about 4 million tonnes of emissions. With the Moderates in the lead they wanted to close that gap rather pay for themselves in developing countries. Let's take the leadership. We'll show you we can do this at home. At the same time, we have come first on European ranking one on which a country has come the longest to implement the Paris Agreement. But we're far from done. Much more climate policy is needed to achieve the ambitions of the Paris Agreement, and we will soon come back with more proposals. But we have an opposition that opposes air taxes, climate investments throughout the country, road wear charges for heavy traffic and the main routes for modern high-speed trains. The opposition wants to cut the environmental budget by one out of every four heads. In addition, one intends to lean on a party, the Swedish Democrats, who believe that we are talking about the weather when we talk about climate policy in the Swedish parliament. It's not serious.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-238	Madam President, I would like Christian Holm Barenfeld has asked me whether any action or initiative on the part of the Minister is justified by the fact that the government's commitment to emergency work resulted mainly in the agency providing the services that has been hired. The Employment Service, like the other authorities, has been commissioned in its regulation letter to contribute to the Government's efforts in modern preparedness jobs by seeking employment of people who are far from the labour market. It is therefore positive that Arbetsförmedlingen accepts its responsibility as an employer and has hired the long-term unemployed and newly arrived on modern standby jobs. The government has a broad job agenda to reach the EU 2020 target of the lowest unemployment rate. An important part of this is active labour market policy. It is also important for the state authorities to assume their responsibilities for more people to get a job. Arbetsförmedlingen writes in s in rereporting from 31 March 2017 that their assessment of modern standby jobs is that many more jobs will be able to take place. Furthermore, they describe that many authorities organise themselves internally to prepare to hire and that this may lead to a slightly longer period of time for the authorities to employ, but that the mission can be more successful thanks to the authorities' preparation. Given that the state authorities only received their assignments in this year's regulatory letter, it is positive that more people have already been employed and that the Public Employment Service is one of the agencies that employed several people.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-242	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! TV viewers! I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Employment for the answer to my interpellation. The state preparedness jobs are one of the government's later inventions launched by the Prime Minister in his first May 2016. Then they followed in the election campaign promised trainee jobs and extra services. We have debated them earlier in this House and they cannot continue to be described as a success story. Of the 32,000 promised trainee jobs, there have been 567. So almost 31,500 trainee jobs remain. Of the 20,000 promised additional services, there have been some 3,200. At the same time, we see that employment has been phased out at a rapid pace and that the participants are being sent home. They are passive and left without employment. In some areas, people close to the labour market are doing well. At the same time, we can see that those who are far removed from the labour market are becoming more numerous and, in addition, are getting further and further away from the labour market. That is why it would be good if the government's jobs were to produce results. Instead, we have seen much of the increased costs of hiring and running businesses. You have less incentive to work by keeping less of what you earn. Successful job creation measures, such as the RUT deduction, are halved instead of reinforced. Here comes the emergency work. They're going to be 5,000. How'd it go? Yeah, it's kind of hard to get numbers. Last time I looked at the Arbetsförmedlingen's website it said that it was 91 of the 5,000 who had got a job. However, a report back from Arbetsförmedlingen shows that there have been 276 of which 174 are at Arbetsförmedlingen. The problem is not Arbetsförmedlingen, it is that nothing is happening in other areas. I may not believe much in emergency work, and I may not believe much in the other parts of the government either. But they were the government's big job efforts, and what the government did not want to do to solve the job situation and ensure that those who are the furthest from the labour market return to it. Given that only 276 out of 5 000 people have now received trainee jobs – which can be described as a complete failure of the trainee jobs and extra services – I have asked the Minister whether it is prompting any action and what the Minister intends to do in order for the government's efforts to take off. The answer shows that the government has a broad job agenda to reach the EU's lowest unemployment target by 2020. I will wait for that discussion to be discussed in the next interpellation debate, because then we will be discussing unemployment targets. However, it is not possible to describe the government's work efforts as being particularly successful, and then they should be adjusted. Is there such a plan with the Minister for Labour?
i-930b4bcea3d56278-255	Madam President, I would like The government's job agenda is broad and has resulted in 200 000 more people having a job today than when the government took office. That's a good result. However, we need to continue much more in the same direction in order to achieve our unemployment target. But the most important parts of job creation are not the Employment Service, but they are in other parts of the policy, and they work well. We have a strong growth of new jobs in Sweden. Labour market policy is also important. Christian Holm Barenfeld once again takes up the trainee jobs, which he has done many times before. The trainee jobs that we saw as necessary to cope with the very high youth unemployment that prevailed under the previous government have not been needed, because young people have got jobs anyway. I think that's great. It is of course not worth having a labour market policy measure if you can solve the problems in other ways, so that people get jobs without subsidies. That's what happened to the kids. We are about to cope with youth unemployment. We have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 13 years, and our promise that no young man will be unemployed for more than 90 days will be able to cope. The additional services, on the other hand, are growing at a strong rate. They are indeed needed today, with so many who are far removed from the labour market – many new arrivals but also other long-term unemployed. The RUT deduction, mentioned by Christi an Holm Barenfeld, is increasing. We spend more money on RUT deductions today than we did under the bourgeois government. So it is something that is increasing and an effort that works. When it comes to people who are far from the labour market, it is a question of employers also taking on a certain responsibility to hire people who otherwise find it difficult to get a job. We know from experience that private business is better at it than the public. In particular, smaller companies take a major responsibility for people who are far removed from the labour market. I am pleased about that, but I really think that the public sector needs to step up and take on a corresponding responsibility. Municipalities and county councils do it quite well, but the state has not shown the advances at all. This is the background to modern preparedness jobs. Of course, this will not be the most important solution, but it is important that the state also assumes its responsibilities. According to the latest reporting, there were 425 people employed in state-of-the-art standby jobs. If we're going to count the m that came after 1 January – some were employees already before – it's 250. It's growing up pretty good. As I explained in my reply, the Public Employment Service is in close contact with other authorities, which are preparing to employ more people who are very far removed from the labour market. I'm counting on you to be able to do your thing.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-262	Madam President, I would like As I said, it is difficult to get the exact figure, but we can see that there are not very many standby jobs that have been created. The Minister says as it is, that Sweden is doing well right now. We are in a boom, and jobs are growing. Its better is that jobs are not created by politicians but by companies. However, we can create good conditions. The minister will gladly return to the government years when she herself was not a minister, but it was an alliance government that took responsibility and put forward concrete job proposals; the jobs grew. However, there was also, of course, unemployment. We then had an international financial crisis. We have talked about this many times. We had the biggest financial crisis in modern times. Sweden, according to all estimates, was one of the countries that had the most stable economy, the best public finances and a policy and also government that received top ratings internationally all the time. I think that's good. However, there is no intrinsic value in, and I also agree with the Minister, that people should be in labour market policy measures and other things because they do not have jobs. The best thing is if jobs grow and everyone can get a job. Now we know it's not reality. Sweden is doing well. It's going well for a lot of people. Those who have left school with full grades are doing well, who have an education and are close to the labour market. But those who are far from the labour market are getting worse and worse. We see that their way back is getting longer and longer. Special efforts are needed, which can, of course, be done in cooperation with the business community. The state preparedness jobs are not such an effort, they are for the state. Otherwise, many of the government's actions have been directed specifically at the public sector. Yes, the public sector is worse than the private sector in taking on its responsibilities in many areas. There may be reason to be particularly clear with our public employers. However, if success is to be achieved, I think it is a good idea to weave in the business world as well. Let me get back to the RUT deduction. Yes, it's improved. With the migration agreement, we managed to bring in some additional parts, but the amount levels have still been reduced by the government. We can see that growth in the RUT industry is slowing down. The signals you get from the industry are not very promising at all. We know that the government has a cooperation party, in which the minister himself has been a member at one time, which absolutely does not like either the market or the RUT deduction. It is a little worrying for future budgets. What this debate is about is the state preparedness jobs. It is 5, 6 or 7 percent of the jobs that have been promised. If I had been a minister, I would have been somewhat concerned in view of the fact that all the other labour market policy proposals put forward by the government could be described as fiasco, given how few of the promised services have been set up. Again, is there anything that the Minister intends to do to ensure that the measure that has now been launched is effective?
i-930b4bcea3d56278-271	Madam President, I would like Christian Holm Barenfeld says that politics can create good conditions for jobs. That is quite correct. I share that view. That is exactly what we are doing. That is why we are now seeing major investments in private business. It is quite right in this situation to make investments in housing, infrastructure, education and welfare, to facilitate export and new industrialisation and to ensure that the whole of Sweden will live. This is exactly why the business community wants to invest, and that is why the majority of new jobs come into private business. I'm glad. My view is that we have not invested enough in welfare. We're going to have to do more. We see great needs in welfare that are not currently met, not least in health care but also in school, where we need to reinforce. There are many things that keep me awake at night and that are very difficult and challenging for me as Minister of Labour. However, the fact that there are not enough people in labour market policy measures is not one of them. What really keeps me awake at night are the big challenges that exist with so many new arrivals at once going into the labour market. This is a huge challenge, while for many years we have lacked working systems to help newcomers enter the labour market. That is a very big challenge. The second major challenge is that we have such a strong demand for labour that a majority of employers find it difficult to find the staff they need. Jobs are empty. The most common question that employers raise with me is what the government can do to educate people to the job vacancies. There, too, we need to achieve a great deal more. I expect the number of state-of-the-art standby jobs to increase. I'm in close contact with Arbetsförmedlingen. The answer to the question, of course, is that I am, of course, prepared to take action if necessary. I'll follow the question closely. So far, the signals have been that it is judged to be in progress at a good pace. We already have quite a few employees.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-276	Madam President, I would like Nor am I sleepless because we do not have too many people in labour market policy measures. I'm not trying to black paint either, but I'm saying that Sweden is actually doing well in many areas, much thanks to the boom. Everything the government does in all areas is not bad. I wouldn't say that. On the other hand, I am concerned when we come to employment policy, where I think there is a great deal missing. I think that in many parts it is going in the wrong direction. And what is being launched, whether or not I sympathize with it, does not lead to delivery. What worries me in that situation is very much the same thing that concerns the Minister. It is about all those people who are far from the labour market and who are getting further and further away from the labour market. Given the fact that we have taken a great responsibility and that many new people have come to Sweden, the risk is that the challenge will be greater as the start-up period for those people expires, as we know that it takes a long time to enter the labour market. It is therefore important to put forward proposals that are job creation. Politics can create conditions, but those conditions are not created by making it more expensive to hire, less attractive to work an hour extra and more risky to start and run a business. It requires policies that prioritise jobs and entrepreneurship, which make it easier to hire, less risky and cheaper. Of course, it should also be possible to ensure that the worker retains more of what he earns in his wallet. We do not see those proposals from the government. We have seen that the government itself largely concludes that the government's budget will lead to fewer jobs.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-281	Mr President, I would like to I note that Christian Barenfeld and I agree on a few things. We agree that the challenges of the labour market, where many newcomers are to enter, are indeed great and will require more effort than we have seen so far. It will be a big and difficult task. I am also pleased that we agree that the state should shoulder its responsibilities when it comes to hiring people who are far removed from the labour market. Then there is the policy of job creation. Are we going to continue with new major tax cuts, as the Moderates have proposed, or are we going to invest in education and training? That's where we split up. But that's the way it's supposed to be in politics, isn't it? Different options are being put against each other.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-283	Mr President, I would like to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me if it is my position that it is possible for the government to achieve the goal of the EU's lowest unemployment rate. Christian Holm Barenfeld has asked me how I see Sweden losing ground compared to other EU countries in terms of low unemployment, and whether I stand by the fact that the goal of Sweden having the EU's lowest unemployment by 2020 is realistic to achieve. The government's target, that the number of people working and the number of hours worked in the economy should increase so that Sweden reaches the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020, is fixed. An employment policy framework with a clear objective is an important part of achieving results. The objective clarifies the priorities and governs economic policy. The Government intends to return to the Riksdag with further proposals that may contribute to an increase in employment and a decrease in unemployment. The EU 2020 target of the lowest unemployment rate has undoubtedly become more difficult to achieve since it was first presented. The number of asylum seekers to Sweden increased in autumn 2015 to historically high levels. These developments obviously present challenges, as it takes time for newcomers to enter the labour market. And when the labour market changes, measures and actions need to be adapted. The government is now more than halfway into the mandate and has come a long way towards the goal. Labour market developments are strong. Unemployment is falling after many years at higher levels. Employment is growing at a good pace, mainly among foreign born. And the employment rate is the highest in the EU. At the same time, the government continues to work for more jobs to be created and for new arrivals to get to work quickly. Despite the fact that the target has become more difficult to reach, there is no reason to revise it, regardless of developments in other EU countries. Jobs remain the government's most important issue, with a view to the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-289	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I say hello to the school class, which is sitting in the gallery, and to those who may follow the debate at home via computer. We have an interpellation debate in Parliament on the government's unemployment target: reaching Europe's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. I would say, not only in the light of the fact that it is a sunny day in Stockholm but also in the light of what it looks like in the Swedish economy, that there are pretty good conditions to get closer to the job goal. The Swedish economy is strong. During the time of the Alliance in power, the foundations were laid for the good development of employment and for the protection against the crisis, from which we are now profiting. With the job tax deductions, more people got into work, and unemployment and balanced unemployment fell. It's good, and it's important. I welcome the fact that the government retains the job tax deductions. But you also see anxiety clouds when you look at the economy. We have a boom. It's welcome. We have an expansive fiscal policy. We have a monetary policy where the dampers are open, so to speak. We have a negative interest rate in Sweden. But when it comes to the boom, it is clear that it is a business cycle, and it follows a cycle. Right now it's good times, but we've got worse times ahead of us. The government has changed the surplus targets and has not built shelters for the crisis that we know will eventually – we are not sure exactly when it happens. Fiscal policy is very expansionary, unfortunately not to get more people into work but rather to strengthen benefit systems. In addition, we received a report today from the Swedish National Audit Office that the surpluses will not increase from 40 billion in 2016 to 110 billion in 2020, as the Ministry of Finance estimates. It will rather stagnate somewhere at 35 billion, because the Ministry of Finance simply counts wrong. Monetary policy – this also comes from the Riksbank and Stefan Ingves – is not sustainable over time. There are good reasons to lower interest rates during certain periods, but you cannot have a negative interest rate forever. It's going to have to turn around sometime. I shall now turn to the Minister's reply, Mr President. The Minister says four things that I think are worth raising in the debate. The first is: The Government intends to return to Parliament with further proposals that can contribute to increasing employment and reducing unemployment. But in concrete action we see how the government to some extent impairs new start jobs. It's the only subsidised employment that we know works– it's documented. The second is: The number of asylum seekers to Sweden increased in autumn 2015 to historically high levels. Of course, these developments present challenges. Then I think it would be interesting to know whether the Minister for Labour will come up with proposals that will bring these people into the labour market or whether she will rather try to keep them away from looking for a job and becoming part of the statistics, as was done to frustrate the unemployment figures between 2002 and 2006. The third is that labour market developments are strong. Unemployment is falling after many years at higher levels. I would like to object to that. Unemployment is getting higher right now after it has fallen for several years. We are now in a period when, for the first time since 2013, we are actually getting higher unemployment. So this seems to be an odd story. The fourth is: the employment rate is the highest in the EU. But that wasn't really the goal.
i-HKudbRX5UM1ag2NwxqrZY6	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ylva Johansson, for the answer to our interpellations! The government's unemployment target is something that the Prime Minister went out and promised before he became Prime Minister and was then presented when the government was formed. Since then, there are probably very few people in addition to Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, the Minister for Labour and possibly the rest of the government who have believed in this goal. There is no serious institute that has believed that it is possible to achieve this. In addition, we now see that it goes in a completely different direction, that Sweden falls down on the scale. It's good to have high goals. It is, of course, a good thing to have the EU's lowest unemployment rate, but it is also important to ensure that this very level of unemployment is low. The question then is whether the objective itself is the most important or whether it is the measures to ensure that jobs increase and that more people get to work. Like my colleague Jesper Skalberg Karlsson, I have noted in his reply that the Government intends to return to Parliament with further proposals that can help increase employment and reduce unemployment. That is a little interesting, because we in the Committee on Employment have been waiting for the proposals for more jobs to come for a long time. It would therefore be interesting to hear the Minister speak a little about it and present the government's thoughts, ideas and proposals that it intends to make. We Moderates have presented a wide range of proposals that focus not least on the entry into work of those who are far from the labour market, such as a first job, where some people learn the job at work. We know that we have challenges with the match, but we also have a challenge in that we have now got many new people to our country who may not be educated and have barely gone to school at all. Many are also at such an age that it may be unreasonable to drive an entire school. Now, however, the Minister says that it will probably be difficult to reach the promise that unemployment by 2020 would be the lowest in Europe but that she continues to see no reason to revise. Of course you can have nice goals, but it's good if you reach them too. Realising that the objectives are completely unrealistic, there may be reason to revise them and, above all, to deliver proposals that increase the number of jobs.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-304	Mr President, I would like to The jobs become better more – 200 000 more jobs since we took office. It's a good development. It will require even more and a continued strong development in order for us to meet our high-level goals. Jesper Skalberg Karlsson says that the old government laid the foundations for good development. No, you didn't. The problem was that you left large deficits that we have now turned into surpluses and that allow us to make the necessary investments that are needed for continued strong job growth. I am also a little surprised that Jesper Skalberg Karlsson does not seem to share his party's view that changes should be made to the surplus targets. We have made a broad agreement with Parliament's parties to make changes, as the surplus targets were introduced, among other things, to buffer up for large retirements that are already taking place and the money is therefore needed. But I may have misunderstood that point. New start jobs have been investigated by IFAU and criticised for having large deathweight costs, and I would like to defend the fact that changes are being made. When there are strong developments in the labour market, and I think that we agree that we have at the moment, we should be careful about generous subsidies to those who are a little closer to the labour market. Then you should focus on those who have the most difficulty getting jobs, and that's exactly what we do with the changes in new start jobs. It is not correct that we have seen an increase in unemployment. It is the Central Statistical Office that is responsible for official unemployment statistics, and we have not seen an increase there. Of course it may come, but we have not seen that so far. However, it is correct that we have seen more enrolled at Arbetsförmedlingen. It is also a very, very expected development. Last year, 16,000 more new arrivals were registered at Arbetsförmedlingen. Despite so many new arrivals, who by definition are unemployed when entered, the number of enrolees has only increased by 4,000. So there are 12 000 others who have left unemployment. This is something we will see. If you accept many refugees who are then granted a residence permit, the number of people enrolled in the Employment Service will increase. It's an expected development. The important issue is to ensure that you do not remain in unemployment. My goal is to be able to get out of work or study within a two-year period. I know this is a tough target, but I think it's possible to reach, and I can't see that we're winning from people waiting even longer. Mr President, I would like to You can have different views on how to use goals. You can set goals that are relatively easy to reach. Fredrik Reinfeldt did so when he said that he had the goal of having 5 million people at work by 2020. This is a goal that I expect to achieve this year, 2017. That's what you can do with goals. It is also possible to set policy objectives so that every time proposals are made, priority must be given to them. We have done so and, as Members know, we have also put forward proposals, for example, for tax incentives for small businesses that employ their first. We have put forward proposals for investment in vocational training and more places at the university of applied sciences. We have broadened career introduction jobs, and we have put forward proposals for extra services. We have also made proposals that will soon be decided here in Parliament on important changes to the start-up assignment so that more of the new arrivals can get out of work faster, and there will soon be proposals on education requirements.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-314	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. Swedish unemployment currently stands at 6.6 per cent, according to SCB. That figure is seasonally adjusted and evened out. It can be translated into approximately 354,000 people. That is not what unemployment looked like 15 years ago. Instead of a broad exclusion, where large groups are outside, it is now very specific groups that are outside. It is about new arrivals, people with foreign background and young people without education. It is a new exclusion that affects certain, special groups. I raised this problem with Morgan Johansson, among other things, in a debate before Christmas – this must be done in order to be able to bring about effective reforms – and then he tried to explain it by the fact that we are now in a boom and that the water is, so to speak, coming in, which gives a high water level that lifts all boats. This is how the economy works, and so will the labour market. Everyone is well off because it is a boom and low unemployment in Sweden. Then let me remind you that when the tide then turned around and the water level becomes lower, you will also see who has bathed naked. Then you will also see what problems are hidden beneath the surface. Here it is clear that there are structural problems still waiting to be resolved. When you talk about unemployment, it is important to see that it is affected by several things. One can say in a simplistic way that it consists of two parts: the part that is affected by the economic cycle, that is, domestic consumption and how much other countries want to deal with us, and the part that is affected by the policy. The first part is now falling in Sweden thanks to the boom, and the second part is almost completely still, in addition to the government's policy reducing labour force participation. The Financial Control Agency, which is an expert authority, wrote in the November forecast last year as follows: The overall assessment is that the effects of all reforms are taking each other out in terms of the number of employees during the forecast period. However, the labour force is reduced by almost half a per cent, corresponding to about 25 000 people. Thus, the level of balanced unemployment is 0.5 percentage points lower in 2019 than it would have been without the reforms. The average working time, productivity and thus GDP are also falling. The red-green government has therefore not had a significant impact on unemployment, but is reaping for the most part the fruits of Sweden's current boom. What happens when 150 000 new arrivals get in line at Arbetsförmedlingen? What does the government do if this coincides with a turnaround in the economy? Eurostat, the Statistical Office of the European Union, published figures on unemployment in the 28 Member States of the Union just a week ago. Sweden is no longer in the upper half, but in place 15, in itself not far from the median. The Czech Republic and Germany have unemployment rates below 4%. However, the government's reforms to achieve a similar level seem to shine with their absence. In short, the government's policy seems to miss the target of the lowest unemployment rate in the EU because it does not have a significant impact on unemployment. In addition, the government seems unable to get to the finish with its own promises of simple jobs, trainee jobs and standby jobs, as we heard in the previous interpellation made by Christian Holm Barenfeld. I wonder, therefore, whether it makes sense at all to have an objective which, on the one hand, does not seem to be achieved, and, on the other hand, does not even seem to be approaching.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-326	Mr President, I would like to Ylva Johansson says 200 000 more people have come to work. That's right. It is better not just for the government, or perhaps not for the government at all. It is now a boom, and the jobs are getting more. There have been many references to the years of the alliance government during an international burning financial crisis. During that time, 360 000 new jobs were created – despite recession and recession. It was still a government that Ylva Johansson considers to be the root of everything that was wrong when this government took over power. What do the Economic Institute and other institutions that go through the budget say? It is clear that the overall assessment from the Institute of Economic Development is that the government's budget and economic policies permanently reduce employment by 15 000 to 20 000 people. At the same time, with a boom, jobs could increase, but with a different budget, jobs could have increased even more. Jesper Skalberg Karlsson brought up the situation with a new form of exclusion, namely those who are far away and even further away from the labour market. However, this is where we need to make a real effort to see how distances can be shortened and the unemployed get into employment and get a way into the labour market. One such part that we know is good for those who have low levels of education and are far from the labour market is to create more simple jobs. Simple jobs is a semi-difficult description because all simple jobs are not easy to perform but require low prior knowledge. We know that the RUT industry is such an area. Many new jobs have been created, and many former black jobs have gone white. Many have got their first job in Sweden in the industry, and not least many women have got their first job or alternatively started their first company in that industry. The minister says you bet, but the RUT deduction has been halved while we want to triple the RUT deduction. Politics matters. New start jobs are changing, too. New start jobs are for those who are far from the labour market. To get a new start, you need to be unemployed for a year. If you are unemployed for a whole year, you are far from the labour market. It is good to have high goals that govern politics. Normally, targets should not be too low, but they should not be high; they should be realistic. If you have then set a goal that all serious assessors have considered unrealistic right from the start, the situation deteriorates and Sweden drops in the league, there is perhaps reason to revise. Now there are clear indications that the economic boom in the future is slowing down rather than strengthening. Then the probability is even less that the government will achieve its goal. Is it reasonable to have a goal that you know you won't even get close to?
i-930b4bcea3d56278-336	Mr President, I would like to There is talk of a new form of alienation. Let us take this issue seriously. Who are the new ones who are now outside the labour market? Yes, they are the ones who have just arrived in Sweden. That's where we see an increase. That group will continue to grow over the coming year as they receive their applications processed and some of them are granted a residence permit and will stay in Sweden. It is people who have finally received their residence permit, been placed in a municipality and nothing would rather than start working. Many, not all, bring with them professional skills and education from their home country. At last they can come out and work, earn their own money, do their own thing, pay taxes, become part of Swedish society. I do not understand that people who have just been granted their residence permit are people who are in exclusion. I perceive that many of those people are in the starting blocks to start their lives in Sweden and get out on the Swedish labour market. The important question is how we design the policy to help them with it so that we do not put obstacles on the part of all those people who actually want nothing more than to get out on their first job, pay taxes and be part of Sweden – do the right thing. The important thing is not to treat people as if they have ended up in a long distance when many of them have just received their residence permit and are hungry at finally starting work and doing the right thing. Labour force participation is increasing, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson. It's increased since I took office. We are now at a very high level. I am almost surprised every time I see that it has increased further. We are up to such high levels in terms of labour force participation. It is very positive and a good sign. Do not picture anything else; it is increasing. It is correct that the government has made changes in new start jobs. When I took office, there was no ceiling on how much wages you could get subsidies for. There were people in fresh start jobs who received salaries of 40,000 – 50,000 kronor a month, and they received subsidies for it. That's completely unreasonable. If an employer is prepared to pay 40 000 – 50 000 in the island for someone to work there, you can probably hire the person without subsidies. I have changed this, and I have made some other changes as well. It is important that the tax money goes where it is most useful. These are real changes. Jesper Skalberg Karlsson says that 150 000 new arrivals will be in line at Arbetsförmedlingen. That is not correct; it is a great exaggeration. It will be 70 000 – 80 000 who are most enrolled in the Employment Service's establishment assignment. That's enough. It is a huge challenge with so many people who in a short time will get a way into Swedish society, learn Swedish and receive supplementary education. The challenge is big enough as it is, and it does not have to double. Mr President, I would like to Let me conclude by saying that these interpellations are about the policy objectives. The Moderates have problems when they set targets for unemployment. This is because the Moderates themselves, in principle, never set any targets for unemployment, but they tend to be other types of targets, such as reducing the tax burden by this and so much. That's the kind of goal the Moderates usually have. We Social Democrats have often set targets on unemployment. We believe that this is one of the most important social problems for the individual and for society when people are not taken advantage of in the labour market, are allowed to do the right thing and contribute to our common prosperity and to their own prosperity. That is why jobs will always be our most important issue.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-345	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Employment, for your answer. When it comes to exclusion and internalisation, I am excited that people who have come to Sweden are putting themselves at the disposal of the labour market and are beginning to build their own future and thereby also build the country stronger. I'm excited about that. To sit two years and wait for a residence permit, I wouldn't call inside. But it's semantics. Mr President, I would like to When politics is at its best, one takes a political position, one fights for it to the last, but if it is impossible one re-evaluates it. It is important to have with you as a politician. Whether you are a social democrat or moderate, there are really no perfect political reforms. I know that Phase 3 is a dear subject for the Minister for Labour. I agree that it was not a perfect reform, but it was a necessary reform. The 2020 target for jobs also falls within that logic. It was absolutely ambitious, but it seems to me that the government is overpowering to reach the goal because it does not seem to be approaching it either. Then I think it is good if the government can re-evaluate and come up with a new, more relevant goal for the challenge that we are seeing right now. As the Minister for Labour mentions, the challenge is precisely people who are newly arrived in Sweden and will become part of the labour market. I think it would be more reasonable to have a goal, for example, to halve the job gap between native and foreign born – say to 2025, as a reasonable end year. So have the Moderates. With that, I would like to thank you for the interpellation debate.
i-Nb5wUcRRfyTuBiQiUQ3LAG	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ylva, for those comments! When it comes to exclusion, how to define it, who is in it and that it will grow according to all forecasts but also according to what Ylva Johansson said by many people coming to Sweden it is that way, but it is not an alienation to come to Sweden. Excretion is something that can possibly be created. What we must ensure is that the person who comes to Sweden comes in employment and in work. Those who are in what we call the new alienation are not primarily those who have come here now, but they are people who have been in alienation for a long time. Many of them are people who have come to Sweden recently, but there are also many who are both born and raised in Sweden. It is people who have a long way to the labour market, who may never have been on the labour market, and who are now getting more and more into the labour market. There are many who, as Ylva Johansson said, are hungry to start working. We will, of course, ensure that we create all kinds of ways in. The fast track is such a part, which we think it is good that the government has implemented. We support fast track for those with skills and skills to quickly enter the labour market. But pride and satisfaction know almost no bounds when Ylva Johansson describes his work and the work of the government. At the same time, we see that this exclusion is increasing. It is rather a criticism of the fact that the Moderates have reduced taxes and want to continue to lower taxes so that those who work and have low incomes actually retain more of their income. Ylva Johansson and her party said no to the Alliance's five job tax deductions – job tax deductions that created many new opportunities and that the government has now seen better that it is unreasonable to abolish because they were so good. Similar measures we want to make more of because we see the effect on both jobs and the individual. Thank you for the debate.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-358	Mr President, I would like to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson said – a bit resourceful, I thought – that we will see who has bathed naked when the water sinks away. That is where the political dividing line is most clear: should you cut money off on tax cuts, or should you invest in building society? There, our parties are quite a long way from each other. My view is that we have great challenges in the labour market – very big in view of the many new arrivals but also the many lack jobs that it is difficult to find people – and that the solution to these problems is hardly tax cuts but rather investment. I would like to thank you for the debate and wish my fellow debaters and the President a pleasant weekend.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-362	Mr President, I would like to Isabella Hökmark has asked me if I believe that the reform of free admission in certain central museums has achieved the intended effect. The question is asked based on results presented in the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis report on visitor development for the central museums 2016. The report from the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis, which Isabella Hökmark addresses in her interpellation, is an account of a government mission to follow up visitor development at the central museums, the Living History Forum and the Visits of the National Heritage Office. The Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis describes how work has been carried out with the museums to develop and standardise the methods for calculating visits. The result is therefore a methodical and statistically reliable account of the number of visits to all central museums during the period 2015-2016. What we are pleased to note from the report is that museum visits increased by 19 per cent in all central museums during the period. The percentage increase was even greater in the museums that introduced free admission in 2016. There, visits increased by as much as 49 per cent. With the report there is now a solid basis that shows that free admission has a positive effect on the number of visitors. The report also presents a close study of four museums that introduced free admission in 2016 to investigate the extent to which free admission affects who visits museums. In these four specific museums, the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis has been able to see that the increase in visitors is relatively evenly distributed in terms of gender, while in terms of age there are specific increases in the categories of young adults and pensioners. In terms of geographical location, the increase in the four free-access museums seems to be mainly linked to an increase in visitors from the local area, in this case Stockholm, as well as foreign tourists. Finally, the Authority has also seen that the increase in visitors to the museums with free entrance is mainly made up of multiple visitors. With the current report as a law, it can be noted that the free admission reform has so far led to a sharp increase in visitor numbers. The report also shows that there are indications that some changes in the composition of visitors have already taken place, including an increase in the group of young adults. However, the Agency for Cultural Analysis is clear that the results presented in the report should not be seen as an evaluation of the reform as a whole. This comprehensive reform will need to be closely followed for a long time to ensure that the outcome is intended. Overall, it is too early to draw clear conclusions on the basis of the limited follow-up so far. However, there can still be no doubt that it is very gratifying and a great progress in cultural policy that the reform so far has meant such a large increase in the number of visitors – as I said – as a whole, 49%, as a whole – at the museums that introduced free admission in 2016. It is a major step in making our common cultural heritage accessible to all.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-369	Mr President, I would like to It is nice that the Minister for Culture is so happy and exuberant about the result. If you make a visit for free, it is obvious that more people go there. No one thought otherwise. But the result has not been what was desired by this reform. The press release sent out before implementation states that free admission is being introduced so that many more groups in society can take part in the common cultural heritage. They want new visitors to the museums. The Minister for Culture and I have discussed these issues in the past, and my previous objections have been confirmed by the report of the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis. It is said that the increase in museums with free entrance consists of experienced museum visitors, i.e. those who already go there have gone more than once. It is also an increase in foreign tourists. Most of them are from the neighborhood. There is also a large increase in pensioners, who already had a reduced contribution. Although the number of visitors has increased in museums with free entrance, there are also examples of such museums that have reduced the number of visitors. I'm thinking of the Technical Museum. While the number of visitors has increased by 40 000 in a museum, there has been a reduction of 50 000. I don't think that's very good. I feel even more nervous about the private museums, where there are entrepreneurs who have invested money and hired staff and where the number of visitors may have gone down because the state has chosen that there should be free entrance in some museums. So I don't really understand this undivided joy because the purpose was new visitors from other areas where you know that many people don't go to museums. They haven't come to the museums. Why, then, is this reform so successful, Minister of Culture?
i-930b4bcea3d56278-376	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Isabella Hökmark, for the question! The Free-Entrance reform is a great success; we have increased the number of visitors by as much as 49 percent. In addition, most private museums have gone very well during the same period. This means that the free-entry reform has probably helped to increase the desire for culture and art and to be in museums. This is also shown by the results of the study, which describes that most visitors are multiple visitors. You want more. You get taste for it; you want to see again, and you want to be in these common rooms. The goal of the free-entry reform is a milestone in the government's cultural policy and in the building of society with which we work intensively and are prepared to finance. We believe in a society where the thresholds for participation are as low as possible, where the price or how much money your parents have does not stand in the way of the chance to try out art or culture or stand on a stage and where we can afford to invest in awakening people's desire. So, step by step, we are lowering the thresholds so that everyone can benefit from our common cultural heritage. I am of course happy with the result, but I am far from satisfied. I want much more, and that is why we have increased the cultural budget by as much as SEK 767 million since we took office. We will continue to invest in culture. What makes me most concerned when I have listened to Isabella Hökmark and her moderate friends on many previous occasions is how it can be a problem that the results show that the number of visitors has increased and that we should therefore do less. It should be exactly the opposite. Although not everything is perfect, such a result should lead to the conclusion that we need to do more. I would like an answer to that: why should we do less and no more?
i-930b4bcea3d56278-381	Mr President, I would like to This is precisely my objection: The Minister for Culture chooses to spend SEK 80 million a year to subsidise me and other experienced museum visitors, who could pay for their entry. Had we had these 80 million crowns, we would have spent them on targeted efforts to the museums so that they had received a donation of money. After all, they have not received any more money through this reform. It is free for us to go in, but the museum has not received any more money for its activities. We had directed the money to the museums. If you talk to museum managers, they say that they would like to receive money, perhaps precisely to bring art to the neighbourhoods where you are not so used to museum visitors, try to attract people in a different way and expand the business. That is the difference: I want to spend money where they do the most good, not on subsidising everyone. My question is therefore still: why is it not good to put money into targeted efforts so that the Minister for Culture gets the visitors who are being asked to come to the museums?
i-930b4bcea3d56278-384	Mr President, I would like to That is precisely what makes clear the big difference with our policy and, above all, the big difference between talking and wanting beautiful things and actually doing. We do both, and that's what makes me so happy. I can both invest 80 million in lowering thresholds by means of a free-entry reform and increasing funding for several museums. In addition, we are increasing the cultural cooperation model, which contributes to more culture throughout the country. We do both, because we believe in the intrinsic value of culture and art and that it should be available to as many people as possible. It is possible to do both, if you are prepared to invest in art and culture and in people and our country. It is also interesting to recall what it was like a few years ago, when we talked a lot about the introduction of the reform. At that time, the ravens of accidents — many of them were moderates — and the gloomy twigs broke down. There was a loud, wide-ranging alarm that the reform was extremely underfunded. Everything would be chaos. Above all, many of Hökmark's party companions thought that private museums would perish. Now the state would come in and compete all the power, entrepreneurship and willingness to work with and make art accessible. And so it has turned out that the result has largely been the opposite. Even private actors are doing very well. This means that the ability of culture to awaken people's desire and the ability of art to gain a greater place do not depend on whether the state chooses to prioritise art. I might have attached more importance to what Isabella Hökmark says over and over again in many interpellations if it were the case that the Moderates also wanted something in terms of cultural policy – whether you also wanted to invest in culture throughout the country or in some other way show that you want to budget for and prioritise investments in art and culture. But your draft budget makes it clear that, on the contrary, you are removing most of it.
i-930b4bcea3d56278-389	Mr President, I would like to There has never been so much investment in culture as under the alliance government, and it was we who introduced culture into school and several important reforms during that time. So I'd say we're betting. It's interesting that they say we were accident ravens. After all, we had the findings from the last time a free-entry reform was carried out. Then the same thing happened: Already used museum visitors and tourists who come here were subsidised. According to visitor statistics, six out of seven visitors to one of the museums are tourists. I don't think it should be free for them. It is nice that tourists come to Sweden, but we may not use taxpayers' money to subsidise their museum visits. I sat earlier and listened to a colleague of the Minister for Culture, Minister Ylva Johansson, and she said a wise thing anyway, I thought: Tax money should go where they do the most good. That's exactly what we Moderates want. We tax the inhabitants of the whole of Sweden, and the tax money should go where they do the most good. They are not useful on free entrance when it turns out – I say it again – that tourists or those of us who already go to museums go there again. Why not let the money go where they're useful? That is the responsibility we have as elected representatives. In fact, I've just started going to museums where I have to pay to go in, because there I think my entrance fee will do more good. I'm afraid to say this, but this afternoon I'm going to take a few hours of parliamentary week and go with a little girl to a museum where I pay to go in. I think that's good!
i-930b4bcea3d56278-393	Mr President, I would like to Congratulations, Isabella Hökmark, who has so much money as elected and elected MP that you can bring children and pay for yourself when you go to a museum! But for many people, the fee to our museums is an obstacle, and that is one of the obstacles we intend to tear down. But this is not all. That is why I say that I am pleased with the greatly increased number of visitors, but I am not satisfied. We need to tear down more obstacles; there are more things to change. If you are in close contact and talk with those who work at our state museums, which I can recommend, and also visit them often you realize that they have a whole box of tools to put in to attract visitors. We will also be grinding them, and we will see even more results in the coming term of office and hopefully many more. Once again, I think it is worth recalling that the beautiful words about spending tax money where they do the most useful and most different unfortunately do not apply to cultural policy. If you look at your draft budget for the Swedish state, everyone can see in black and white that you want to phase out the support for culture school, for example: SEK 100 million a year. And you want to reduce support for regional culture. These are figures that speak clearly and should be read by anyone who wants to know more about moderate cultural policy. Like I said, free entrance is so far an amazing success. That doesn't mean we're happy. It is true that young adults have gone to these museums to a greater extent than before, and this is gratifying. But we're gonna do a lot more-- this is just one of many tools we have in the box.
