i-8862045225bf40d8-16	Mr President, I would like to Then we'll stand here again. For the fourth and last time this parliamentary term, we have to debate the Committee on Culture's budget report. Sometimes the debate gives the impression that this only concerns cultural policy, but that is not the case. The committee's spending area also includes sport, civil society, public services, education, religious communities and much more. My party colleague, Saila Quicklund, will later highlight, among other things, the importance of sport, and I myself will focus mainly on cultural policy. Last week, together with the Minister for Culture and Democracy, I participated in a conversation at Södra Teatern, arranged by the National Theatre. The topic of the day was how cultural policy can influence other policy areas as well. If you are a cultural politician, as I have been for almost 25 years, you have become more or less accustomed to the fact that culture becomes what comes a little further. First, we need schools, education, infrastructure, the labour market, health care and everything else in place. Then perhaps we can start talking about culture. But that's not the case anymore. We live in another world and another time – a troubled and searching time, where we don't really know what tomorrow will look like. Behind us are a few years in which we have experienced both global and national crises. People are on the run over land and sea. We have experienced acts of terror, both far away and in our own country. Britain is on its way out of the EU, Donald Trump is the leader of the free world, and in a small, closed communist dictatorship far away sits a man shooting rockets at the rest of the world. A national migration crisis has been turned into a national integration crisis. Enemy is growing, and Nazis are demonstrating on our streets and in the Alme Valley. In addition, recent times have been flooded with stories and testimony about how we obviously cannot behave toward each other as adults. Everything from inappropriate behaviour to pure, gross abuse and law crimes takes place in our workplaces, behind our scenes, in the classrooms and in the political corridors. It is testimony that shocks and dismays and requires political action. It is an election year, and everyone is now measuring which issues are at the top of people's agenda. I am not so convinced that it is actually a single issue that people are most concerned about today: whether the tax should be increased or lowered with a dogring, whether you should have grades in fourth grade or sixth grade or what trainee job has gone wrong. I think what most people wonder about is where the hell the world is going. This is where art and culture come in. It gives us the stories and tools to understand and relate to what is happening. It is the one who questions, depicts and explores who we are as human beings. It tests boundaries, breaks taboos and guarantees our fundamental freedoms. By looking at ourselves, it also forces us to reflect on who we are and what formed us — where we come from and where we are going and how we meet each other as human beings. Thus, culture has never been as important as it is now. Mr President, I would like to The fact that it is an election year is also evident from the government's budget. It is an expansive budget without its like. Who does not remember the words of the Minister of Finance from the beginning of her term of office, when, against all her expertise, she claimed that the barns were empty. "It's not a set table we're coming to."It's completely scrapped, said the Minister of Finance to Dagens Nyheter. The fact that the barns are being filled during the boom seems to be completely ignored. Everything should be out, spent and disposed of, as soon as possible before election day is here. The tables must be cleaned and the barns emptied; the shed must be vacated. This also applies in the field of culture. Despite the fact that previous efforts have not gone well, the Minister for Culture and Democracy happily continues the millions roll. Where it will lead and how the results will be measured is as unclear as before. The Minister for Culture seems to be most preoccupied with the size of the budget and less concerned with its content. That is regrettable. Once again, the government creates expectations but risks delivering disappointments. The Moderates have a much tighter budget than the government. We don't promise everything to everyone. Such policies sooner or later affect those who are the least equipped. Problems that can be hidden in the economic boom do not disappear but, on the contrary, become painfully apparent in the next recession. We do not believe in large deficits in prosperity; this is where we can collect in the barns. Mr President, I would like to Although we have a more restrictive budget than the government, we are making substantial investments in culture. We choose to target resources especially for children and young people from environments where sports and cultural activities are not an obvious choice. Furthermore, we want to make it easier for professional cultural creators, to support the innovative culture, to give more artists a sanctuary in a Swedish municipality and to increase the safety of our religious communities. The very thing about children and young people is a central part of the Moderates' cultural budget. Creation school was introduced by the Alliance government and has, thankfully, remained under this government as well. It is about putting all students' right to culture and their own creative development at the centre. In the meeting between students, professional cultural workers and educators there is a valuable development. We want to strengthen and expand Creative School to include upper secondary school. The School of Culture has been a recurring topic for debate in this House in recent years. It is an important activity for thousands of children and young people, which should be characterised by breadth, accessibility and high quality. An extensive study has been presented on the future of the cultural school, but not much has come out of it politically. However, cultural school is also a municipal activity, which takes place on a voluntary basis on the free time of children, and the issue of division of roles is important. A few years ago, the Minister for Culture and Democracy proudly presented an investment of SEK 100 million to reduce fees in the cultural school. When we and the outside world asked how she intended this to happen, she became guilty. You didn't really know that. Then reality kicked in. There was no reduction in fees. Suddenly it probably hadn't really been the idea from the beginning either – there was so much else you could do to increase accessibility, they said. Again, the money bag was more important than the result. As I said, we believe in a clear responsibility. We believe in the municipalities' responsibility and strength to plan based on their own circumstances, but we also believe that the state can support with coordination, knowledge sharing and research. For this we set aside resources under the Swedish Arts Council. Similarly, we would like to offer special support to the public libraries in their important work to facilitate children's and young people's reading. A good reading ability is the key to successful schooling and creates opportunities for the rest of life. It is about children's and young people's right to knowledge. Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned in my introduction, culture must also be seen as a whole with other policies. This applies above all to the conditions for working as an artist and cultural creator in Sweden. If you make it harder to hire, more difficult and more expensive to run small businesses or reduce household consumption space, then it is art and culture that are affected. It is artists who sit with bureaucracy, administration, taxes, VAT rates, fees and grant applications where one should achieve one, than the other. And it is families who are allowed to opt out of different forms of experiences when the economy is not enough. But free resources are also needed in cultural policy. For many years we were able to see how the Future Culture Foundation could successfully invest in and enable exciting art projects and collaborations and create space for what didn't always fit otherwise. For a number of years, this activity has been transferred to Kulturbryggan. We want to further develop Kulturbryggan's activities and therefore want to double their budget. We note that every crown invested in Kulturbryggan through various collaborations with other parties has generated 1 1⁄2 krona back to cultural life. This is what we hope to continue. In addition, we want to develop the activities of the Arts Board in relation to scholarship activities. This gives more artists the opportunity to develop their art and greater opportunities for the trying art to reach a wider audience. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to mention a few words about people's education and the challenges facing Sweden. The modern labour market is dynamic and full of opportunities, but it also requires development and lifelong learning. Here, student associations and folk high schools play an extremely important role. Experience shows that the various actors in education and training have been successful in helping people who have not come to their own in the formal education system to establish themselves in the labour market. This also applies to new arrivals. The fact that society also devotes substantial resources to peoples' education is therefore both right and reasonable. On the other hand, the task of adult education must never be to hide people from unemployment statistics. The massive expansion of the number of places that the government is now doing, greater than what it itself wanted from the peoples' education side, makes people afraid that this is the case, here as well as in other areas. It is labour market programmes and education that people should be hidden away in. Education is essential, but it must be linked to a real job and can never be active unless you simultaneously strengthen the drive to work. If it does not pay for large groups but even leads to financial loss to take a job, then no training places in the world will help. This is the blind spot of the government. We believe in peoples' education, but we do not believe in the role of peoples' education in cleaning up a failed labour market policy. In this way, we reject the Government's explosive expansion effort. Mr President, I would like to A budget is always ultimately about crowns and crowns. I know that in a moment the Minister for Culture and Democracy will be here to talk about the biggest cultural budget in modern times. She's been able to do that every year. And in the same way, culture ministers have been able to do before her, because in Sweden we see the value of art and culture. When the cultural budgets have been cut sharply across Europe, Sweden has instead invested. This has been done under alliance governments and under red-green governments. This year too, eight parties have shown in different ways how they want to strengthen resources for culture. This is important to remember. But cultural policy must not be reduced to becoming a competition only for who makes the most contributions. At the end of the day, it must be about what we actually want to do with the resources and what effect they actually have, and here the Minister for Culture is still guilty of the answer. With this, Mr President, I would like to support the committee's proposal with the exception of paragraph 1, where the Moderates do not intend to take part in the decision.
i-8862045225bf40d8-44	Mr President, I would like to It is difficult or almost impossible to start a debate on cultural policy without reflecting on the metoo discussion in recent months. To the women from the performing arts industry who put this ball in motion, I would like to thank you very much. It was strong and courageous, and their actions I believe will go down in history as an important step towards a more equal and equal society. They went out and said that now it is enough, and they got women from industry after industry to stop and clearly show off actions and structures in society that we can never accept. I am also proud that our government reacted strongly and that a united Committee on Culture said that this is not acceptable. We have now heard from the social partners and the management of the major performing arts institutions that they have acted and will continue to act to put an end to this, and that is a good thing. The work is just getting started. It will require a strong and clear policy, but also that we all take personal responsibility. Mr President, I would like to For three years, the Social Democratic-led government has amortised the public debt and put responsible investment in the construction of society over unfair tax cuts and cuts. Deficit has turned into surplus. Therefore, with the support of the Left Party, the government has now presented a budget for 2018 with historically large investments in, among other things, security, welfare and jobs. The budget includes reforms for nearly SEK 40 billion – SEK 40 billion that will benefit everyone. Today we are debating some things, namely Category 17, Culture, the media, religious communities and leisure. In my speech, I will focus on art and culture, and my fellow party members will highlight sport and peoples' education and so on. Together with investments in security and education, culture is what creates a society where people are allowed to make class trips, dream of a bigger future and feel that they have a place in the world. As Olof Lavesson said, the Culture Budget for 2018 includes a historic investment of SEK 745 million. In addition, further efforts are being made in peoples' education and sport. During the term of office, the government has increased the cultural budget by SEK 1.5 billion. This compares with the years of a moderate Minister of Culture, when 2010 – 2015 increased by a total of 411 million. I don't think there's any clearer lack of interest. The government's cultural budget has children and young people in focus but also includes initiatives for artists and cultural workers and for culture throughout the country, based on freedom of expression and democracy. Mr President, I would like to Art and culture carry democracy and open society. Through art, culture and education, a society and its inhabitants develop – by asking difficult questions at their head, questioning and developing new ideas. If we stop for just a moment and imagine an existence without art and culture, I think we would all feel an emptiness: no music to listen to, no stories to share through the book, film or music, and no new influences or impressions. I think we all agree that we do not want such a society. More children and young people today have the chance to test the forms of expression of music, art or theatre through the municipal music and culture school. Therefore, the investment of SEK 100 million continues to keep the fees down and increase the quality. It enables more children and young people to actually take part in that activity. But we are also introducing a national cultural school centre to highlight the importance and further development of the cultural school. A permanent cultural school life is being introduced to improve the conditions for recruiting teachers with more training places, training measures and development funds. Free admission at some state museums was introduced in early 2016. Museum visits have increased significantly since then, we can see. Above all, it is the group of older people over 65 and young adults between the ages of 19 and 29 who have now become frequent visitors to our museums. It is good that the number of visitors has increased in such a short time. This shows that there is a great deal of interest in the activities. Museums now need to continue to actively reach new groups of visitors who have not yet discovered their activities. Around our elongated country there is also a great commitment to our various working life museums. Most of the work is done on a voluntary basis by people with a love of history and cultural heritage. The working life museums preserve the cultural heritage of industrial society and talk about workplaces and professions that no longer exist. This power and commitment are important, and in addition to the resources that go through the National Heritage Office, the government will now contribute 2.5 million to a knowledge centre for the working life museums. It is an important part of strengthening the education and development opportunities of the non-profit-making forces in order to preserve this cultural heritage, which is often also an important part of a community's tourism industry. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish model is based on being able to realize your dreams and reach your full potential regardless of your background. Here language is often the key and literature that makes the world richer and more understandable to us humans. Reading and writing are good in many different ways. Reading broadens our horizons and can be anything from needed recreation to a necessity for study and working life. The fact that adults read to children and that children and young people can have good access to books wherever they live in the country is very important for them to get a good start in life. The world of literature and language should be open to all people regardless of their background. Libraries have never been as important as they are now. In times of major technological shifts and developments forward, we must ensure that everyone has the opportunity to be involved in social development and democratic society. It is therefore gratifying that the government spends 275 million on libraries with this budget so that everyone has an equal opportunity to take part in a varied range of media and have access to facts, science and various sources. In recent years, libraries have gained high confidence in the Gothenburg SOM surveys. Users of libraries rely on the librarian as a reliable source. A few weeks ago I and some of my colleagues in the committee visited the library in Kista. They told us that in the fast digital development, many residents turn to the library for help with daily digital banking handling, reliable digital sources, purely technical handling, and more. We Social Democrats want to reduce the digital divide. Libraries play an important role here, precisely because they have such a high level of trust. Today, more and more municipalities are developing new methods for library activities. These range from user-driven activities to outreach activities to support early reading. One example is Bokstart, where you come home to families with small children. You talk about the importance of language and reading and hand over a book package. But the work is also being developed to increase participation and understanding of democracy. From my perspective, a strengthened library initiative for an expanded business has never been as well-timed as it is now. Mr President, I would like to In times when many countries restrict free artists, independence and freedom of expression, it is important to show that we in Sweden want to promote and protect free art. The effort of 115 million to improve the conditions for free art by strengthening the artists directly, to the innovative projects of the Kulturbryggan, to free groups, to the artistic design of our common environment and to the increased support of literature and cultural journals is a way of working for the cultural policy objectives, which say that culture should be a dynamic, challenging and independent force based on freedom of expression. I've been into technological developments. Here we see how we can actually create great opportunities to make culture available throughout the country. Therefore, the investment in digital broadcasting from our national scenes Opera and Dramaten and also from Riksteatern is a good investment. Then they reach out to more people throughout the country. It is also part of their mission. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Government is now giving the Young Klara the task of acting as a national theatre institution for children and young people. Young Klara is in many ways unique in its pioneering work, which is exploratory and innovative from a child's perspective. It is gratifying that Young Klara is now finally becoming a national scene. In contrast to a government that sees the importance of art, culture and education, there is a divided bourgeoisie, including the Swedish Democrats. They have a common denominator, namely that they prioritise down culture. Total expenditure category 17 cuts the Moderates most, by 1.2 billion. Instead, they give priority to tax cuts. We do not think that is good for Sweden. We Social Democrats are convinced that culture is important for increasing cohesion and reducing disparities. That's why we're investing in more people getting access to art, culture and education. We are doing this to create a more equal society. To conclude, Mr President, I should like to apologise for having delayed some time. But when the heart is full, you want to use the extra minutes. It is such an important area. I would like to support the report's proposal and say that I also agree with both S, V and MP reservations.
i-8862045225bf40d8-66	Mr President, I would like to During the alliance government, the cultural budget increased by approximately SEK 1 billion. It happened during one of the deepest recessions, when people cut down heavily across Europe and raised cultural VAT. This, says Gunilla Carlsson, is characterized by the fact that the lack of interest cannot be made clearer. I think that's a very strong statement. The only one who has raised cultural VAT in Sweden is Gunilla Carlsson's own government, which has shocked the biomems. Instead, take responsibility for it! We decided on biopolitics after a rather long debate and harsh criticism. It is a criticism that has continued, and it is at least as harsh today, after its implementation. One of the elements that was criticised was the industry councils to be set up under the Swedish Film Institute, which would be without power and without a mandate. Where they had previously been on the board, they would now be allowed to sit in opinion groups without any real influence. It was criticised both by a majority in the committee and by a majority in the Riksdag with an announcement calling on the government to urgently investigate how party and industry collaboration can develop after the film agreement has expired. The industry councils are not enough. Today, the government answers: industry councils exist – that's enough. That's the way it is. And in a reservation today, the Social Democrats share that view. At the same time, the dialogue in the industry is completely below freezing point. My direct question to Gunilla Carlsson is: How can the Social Democrats think that the announcement is fulfilled?
i-8862045225bf40d8-71	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we have just as Olof Lavesson highlighted changed in film politics. We have introduced a government film policy. We have made a substantial contribution to cinema policy. The film agreement has previously been good for the film and for Sweden, I can say. But it didn't work. As a social democrat, I think we have a responsibility when we can no longer put together a film agreement that works for the industry and for all the parts that are involved. Then we must take responsibility for the film so that it can continue to develop. Some are these industry councils. They're pretty new. They haven't met a lot of times yet, but they've started their work. What I get is that the dialogue is very different depending on which participants you talk and which industry councils it is. I think we need to give it some time to see if we can find common denominators and common areas to discuss in these industry councils. I think it is too early to say that we should ball it straight up in the air again and not have a good structure. On the other hand, I agree that we must follow film policy in the future and ensure that what does not work today will have better prospects in the future. The government says in the budget bill that this announcement has been taken on board. I can support it and think that we will now have to wait and see what happens in the future. It is about working on the whole film policy and also with these industry councils.
i-8862045225bf40d8-74	Mr President, I would like to Gunilla Carlsson says that resources have been added to the film. I now realise that the Social Democrats have adopted the rhetoric and numeracy used by the Green Party in the past. You've been too good for that in the past. I am sorry about this. The Social Democrats have been trusted in the past. When it comes to industry councils, the key is precisely what Gunilla Carlsson himself says. You haven't met very often. You have no influence. You can't think of anything. And what you think nobody needs to do anything about it. That is exactly where the problem lies. It has gone so far that even the Film Institute itself writes to the Ministry of Culture and says: This is not enough. That's not good enough. Political action must be taken here. Parliament has even demanded it. This is no surprise. That's exactly what everyone warned about before. Now it has become exactly as we and others said and even worse. Gunilla Carlsson says: No, but we'll have to wait and see. I think it's awkward. I find it difficult when you put off the responsibility for film policy, when you let someone else take care of it and when it is completely failing. I can quote Gunilla Carlsson myself: Uninterest could not be clearer. But it's a little dishonest rhetoric from the Social Democrats these days. I can tell it's an election year. It's like when Gunilla Carlsson stands in the speaker's chair and tells how much other parties cut down on culture. Let me say, as I said in my speech: there is no party in here that cuts down on culture. All the parties in here have wanted to invest in culture. We may find it good bets or bad bets. But right should be right, and justice should be fair. We do not share the government's view – that we should invest everything we have in a fiery boom. We want to save in the barns. That's the difference. Be honest with that, Gunilla Carlsson!
i-8862045225bf40d8-80	Mr President, I would like to This government has taken hold of the deficit left by the bourgeois government. As Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson said, the barns were empty when we took over. It was even the case that taxes had been reduced without being able to finance them. Now we have a situation where we actually have surpluses – 80 billion in government finances. Forty billion goes to talk off public debt, and 40 billion goes to reforms. Some of the 40 billion comes precisely from culture. I am very happy and proud that you choose to prioritise art, culture and education. It is about reaching out with more culture, for example through the Music and Culture School and the opportunity to access the collections in our museums. It is about the possibility for more people to take part in the activities of adult education. You're supposed to work with outreach when it comes to those who are far from it. But it's also about the opportunity for people to increase their knowledge and get better opportunities to enter the labour market. I think these are better priorities than reducing taxes.
i-8862045225bf40d8-83	Mr President, I would like to I would first of all like to endorse the reservations of the Swedish Democrats 1 and 4 and would also like to emphasise that we support our specific opinion in favour of our funding frameworks in the report. 中 Nothing is like waiting times, spring floods, budding times. We are approaching elections, Mr President, and this is the last debate of this kind in the run-up to the forthcoming election movement, and citizens and cultural workers are in waiting times. Expectations are high on what cultural policy is presented and requests a mandate from the people of Sweden to prevail after 9 September next year. Nothing is like waiting times. However, the times already seem to have begun, as the situation in Swedish cultural life is on everyone's lips. I am talking about the situation in libraries, museums and performing arts institutions after the famous Metoo call and the transformation of Swedish cultural school only on the basis of an investigation. The Government has presented its attempt to understand Swedish cultural heritage where the understanding and management idea shone with their absence. The Alliance jumps, skips and changes its feet both among themselves and in the field of substantive policy in the committee's preparatory area. Swedish cultural heritage is waiting for will and action, not destruction. Every spark of the ideal of education in our knowledge institutions is stomped down. Instead, new and other assignments are assigned, and all things are obscured at the moment by evidence of harassment and abuse. It becomes tragic and blunt to attack when the scale of transgression appears to be voluminous and anything but mere prosecution. But action is needed, and we must think broadly and correctly, and not least strengthen trust and confidence in the judiciary. We must not think that we can deal with this on our own within the institutions. In many respects, Mr President, we see a sector in transition. I am proud to present and represent the priorities, objectives and envelopes of the Swedish Democrats when the Committee on Culture is today debating Category 17. The SD undoubtedly stands for stringency, consistency and sub-optimisation in this year's as well as in previous years' budget debates in the Committee on Culture's area of preparation. I am proud to continue to speak in favour of the most elaborate and ambitious spending-area movement among opposition parties, where both new reforms and cautious progress on a proven course apply. During our term of office, we have presented the strongest budget for the committee's preparatory work to the opposition parties. We've bet the most for the most, wide and right. This year the government is rushing past, much because of diffuse integration measures where the impact of the investments is most likely very limited, and it may seem irresponsible to spend so much in a boom. Folkbildning should do the work for integration. The stakes are massive, and the bets are wide. In general, we are talking about sweeping efforts where the rescheduling of migration policies and new forms of testing to obtain citizenship and strengthen the spirit of citizenship and the social contract should take precedence. We need to let people's education recover and keep its distinctive character. Moreover, it is strange to invest so much in an area that within itself has shown the need for internal review and is under investigation, and then primarily on asylum seekers who have not yet been granted a residence permit. Otherwise, there are scattered showers here and there. Within the so-called opposition, among the alliance parties, this year's spending-area movements are bursting, and the announcements are several, new and, above all, different. They are divided on the issue of film. KD does not seem to support the government's film policy, but the other alliance parties seem to do so. They are divided about the formation of the people. C supports the government's entire public education initiative. KD and L support parts of it, such as investment in asylum seekers alone. The government has increased the cultural budget by nearly SEK 1.4 billion. In previous years, the Alliance parties have proposed substantial cuts in the cultural budget, which they are clear that they are doing this year as well. At the same time, none of them are lowering in parity with the government's entire increase. We've heard that before. You make bets. It may be an election year, but the explanation of the motives behind the action and at all what you want with Swedish cultural life and cultural heritage in the long term and in general could have been invited to plant the exercise. Mr President, I would like to As a spokesperson for the opposition party that runs opposition and presents a credible alternative, I am, as I said, proud to present a strong, rigorous and consistent spending movement and budget where a solid course and reform agenda are recognized. At the same time, we give our support to selected initiatives that the government makes, for example regarding the National Archives. We do not promise gold and green forests, we do not serve any whale-fry and do not make a sharp throw, but security, tradition and innovative innovation on a solid ideological basis are recognized. Study visits and outlooks in the country indicate that our efforts to nurture, safeguard and demonstrate Swedish cultural heritage through what we call the Swedish Collection are right. They would make a real difference and would be appreciated by both public and civil society, associations and non-profit forces. This is solid. Culture and public health through increased efforts for outdoor activities, sports and culture in health care remains the focus. It also makes access to and care for the forms and cultural environments of cultural heritage. More and more topical is not least the cultural considerations in social planning and new construction of public spaces, and the skills we propose are needed today and would make a real difference. Man is a cultural being and is well served by having been involved in influencing his physical environment, and by seeing that harmony, history and the beauty values of the place are taken into account. It is also good to be able to consume culture from the cradle to the grave; hence our efforts at Creative Preschool for the youngest, Creative School, Gaming Institutes and Nordic computer game exchange for the slightly older, cultural slots and opportunities for outdoor life for more people of active age and not least culture in care and creating elderly care for the sick, the weak and those who are approaching the end of life. The Sami culture also receives continued attention with our long-term efforts. Mr President, I would like to Our country drifts apart on an unprecedented scale, with the possible exception of the literal division when we lost the eastern half of the kingdom. Cohesion is cracking, the social kit is cracking and the social contract between newcomers and the majority society is in many and very non-existent. At this time we need a valued and reformed citizenship and civil service in addition to military service. In addition to that, we also look out and see how the foundation of our entire cultural life is: morals and ethics, laws and rules, singing and music, literature and art. I am talking about the church, which is our largest cultural house and which is located all over the country. The church is our collective memory and our collective frame of reference. The church antiquarian compensation is SEK 460 million, a level that the support has been in for some time. At the same time, we see that the need for compensation is high in the parishes and that the state level represents a relatively small part of the total health and maintenance costs. Much of the care of the cultural historical environments is paid for by the church fee, which is also intended to cover the church's regular activities. In many congregations, the economy and the real estate issue are a growing problem, and one can be forced to choose between soul care in crisis or care and maintenance of the church. This is an untenable situation. As the church cultural heritage is common to us, whether you are a member of the Swedish Church or not, I think it is time for the state to take greater responsibility and raise the church antiquarian compensation. The issue must be taken seriously. That is our most important priority this year. In addition to a general increase in ambition regarding basic activities, we also believe that a holistic approach to remuneration should be taken and its areas of use broadened and deepened. Therefore, the increase also aims to enable efforts to preserve the church antiquarian heritage in a broader context such as the intangible heritage, cultural life, and improved care, digitalisation and accessibility of older cultural heritage. Let us remember that loving pride and self - esteem strengthen humility. Shame and uncertainty create insecurity and consolidate the thresholds for integration as new arrivals. It's a fact. Let us make a handshake for the care of our common heritage for the sake of our future generations and for those we go before. Mr President, I would like to I wish you a Merry Christmas to Mr President and to my dear committee colleagues. I wish you a good, signed and joyful Christmas holiday.
i-8862045225bf40d8-106	Mr President, I would like to Art and culture are so crucial for us humans to feel good. Without the music we listen to, the books we read, the films and the performing arts we see, which awaken and stir our emotions, give us insights about ourselves, each other and the outside world, life would be rather poor. I am very proud that the cultural budget we have to debate today is actually the strongest in Sweden ever. It is a cultural budget developed with a green minister of culture at the forefront. At the same time, unlike what we could have believed when we heard Olof Lavesson's speech, the budget of SEK 40 billion of Sweden's public debt has been written down to the lowest level of public debt since 1977. Some say that there are small differences between the different parties, at least seven of the parliamentary parties, in cultural policy. In fact, it is difficult to find another area of expenditure where the differences in ambition are as great as in cultural policy. The Government's budget proposal includes 15.9 billion in total in the cultural sector. All opposition parties have a lower level of ambition than the government has. Most of all, the Moderates, which are 1.2 billion under the Government's proposal. Olof Lavesson's first comment when the cultural budget was presented was that this is an expansive budget, on the verge of irresponsible. Let me paraphrase Astrid Lindgren's Emil in Lönneberga: When we do not have the resources, we cannot invest in culture. When we have resources, we must not invest in culture. When are we going to invest in culture? The environmental party's cultural policy can be said to have three main objectives. The first is to create access to culture for all people, regardless of their place of residence, regardless of their economic situation or functional variations. With regard to the latter, I can say that the Culture Council of this year places clear accessibility requirements in all grants. The largest accessibility reform in this draft budget is the SEK 275 million allocated to the country's library. During the year of the Alliance, it was a bleak situation for libraries. Every tenth library branch around the country was shut down without the alliance government acting. But the red-green government is acting. We know that libraries are so important to stimulate reading; from the little child, who can botanize among the picture books and find his own favorites, to the young people of the devouring age, who read shelves by shelf meters, and of course we adults, who find the books we want or need to read. But the libraries are more than that. Libraries are often also local nodes in local cultural life; singing sessions for small children, authors or lectures. The government sees the need and therefore invests in biliotek throughout the country. The next focus area for the Green Party and the government is about creating decent conditions for artists and cultural creators. Like everyone else, you as an artist should be able to live off your work. The draft budget is directed at SEK 115 million precisely to strengthen the artists' conditions. A large part of this is about direct artist scholarships, but we also strengthen the funding for cultural journals, for the purchase of public art and directly for the visual artists. The third focus area is to create the conditions for everyone to develop their creative creative aspects throughout their lives. It all starts, of course, in music and culture school. The Red Green Government is the first government ever to take financial responsibility and support the municipal music and culture school. We do this because we want children and young people throughout the country to have access to a cultural school regardless of which municipality they grow up in. It is equally important to continue working outside the budget to re-establish aesthetics in all national upper secondary programmes. In autumn 2019 it is in place. Back to the budget, we strengthen the funding for study associations and peoples' education. There are already 5 000 new places for folk high schools next year. The largest cultural policy bill this year was, of course, the cultural heritage bill decided by the Riksdag in broad agreement this spring. There was a very broad consensus on the important principles of the bill. On the other hand, the debate revealed the need for more resources for the conservation of the cultural environment. It is resources that are now coming into place. We will increase the funding for environmental protection by 10 per cent. On the basis of the consensus when we debated the cultural heritage bill, one might think that all parties would be behind that funding enhancement, but the Moderates and the Center Party do not. They are the two parties which, incidentally, have the weakest cultural budgets. Looking forward, a new major cultural policy bill comes shortly after the turn of the year on architecture, design and the natural environment. Here too we go forward in the budget to create the conditions for that bill, but we give resources to the area, including to Form/Design Center in Malmö. With the strongest cultural policy budget ever, there are, of course, many more areas for impact. The Minister of Culture will soon come up after me in the speaker's chair to continue the briefing. Let me conclude by saying the following. No, Olof Lavesson, it is not irresponsible to invest in culture. Culture is not sprinkles in life, but works that are nice to have or lose. Culture is a way of understanding the world. As the world looks today, there are more insights about ourselves, about each other and about our environment we need. I support the committee's proposal on the allocation of appropriations.
i-8862045225bf40d8-120	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that Niclas Malmberg and Gunilla Carlsson from the government are using this year's debate to show how much they are investing in the cultural budget this year. This is the first time that the ambitions of the Swedish democrats have been broken. You have to admit that. However, as we heard earlier in the debate, it is not about how much you bet, but about where you bet, whether it is purposefully substantiated and justified. We can clearly see that this is an election budget. It is irresponsible economic procedure to spend that kind of resources when the interest rate is so low in a boom. It is also about the general public education initiative. How does the gold rain get over people's education at a time when, for example, they have not yet restored and adjusted the funding for Sweden's cultural environment management, i.e. Statens fastighetsverk? We still see that the legacy of those who have gone before us, who are our responsibilities, who do not live and cannot take responsibility and collect calls and form opinion for their works, but are dependent on the will and care of politics, is left to that end. Alarm after alarm indicates that buildings are distorted and decaying. It happens at a time when it is our responsibility to restore and take care of them. When it comes to investing in free art, it may be necessary to realise that even if we are to have rigid efforts and great responsibility for free art with good infrastructure and the right resources where necessary, free art – a larger part of it – must also have the chance to be free, to flap freely and learn to live and develop and grow without direct subsidies. How does Niclas Malmberg view this?
i-Rjm531hnYLTi98bU9euxpq	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Aron Emilsson! We invest in the protection of the cultural environment – we contribute the budget of 25 million, which is a 10% increase. I welcome the fact that the Swedish Democrats are behind this initiative. I began my speech by saying that seven parties have roughly the same entry into cultural policy, although we have different levels of ambition. A party stands by the side of the way that you want to go in and govern what culture you let out. For example, the Swedish Democrats want to completely dismantle the Museum of World Culture, a museum that obviously challenges their own world view. What's so bad about the Museum of World Culture? Why do you want to dismantle the Museum of World Culture?
i-8862045225bf40d8-127	Mr President, I would like to The party that least wants to govern cultural life and free art is probably the Swedish Democrats. We have strongly criticized the government's and the Green Party's cultural heritage bill, which makes the ideological nursery of the museum system, where education and knowledge, research and empirical research are not free, where we open up to thinning the arbitrary character and melting of artifacts, and where we do not hesitate at all to demean and demean our historical heritage. We also want a larger part of free art to be allowed to flap freely and live and grow by its own power as the great art and culture have once been created. At the same time, we do not want to reduce or abolish the good forces of economic and political resources that we provide. But a larger proportion must be allowed to flap freely. When it comes to the Museum of World Culture in Gothenburg, it is clear that it has been criticised by many more than the Swedish Democrats. I've heard it from a lot of visitors. I have been there myself and met many, done study work on it during my education and then met many private visitors who think that this is not wise. This is no longer an institution of education and a museum, but this is an activity that takes a political stand with exhibitions that point out individual parties and contributors to be more or less good or evil, where one takes a stand – always with left-wing liberal list – and never puts knowledge, empiricality, research or historical artifacts in focus, but more or less is a debater of the Green Party's party apparatus. I would rather direct the resources to the East Asian, Ethnographic and Mediterranean Museums, which need their skills and resources.
i-8862045225bf40d8-130	Mr President, I would like to I find this remarkable. Aron Emilsson visits a museum that he and his friends do not like. Then they go forward with a policy to dismantle the museum. The cultural heritage bill that we decided on in broad agreement this spring has a fantastically important entry point, namely that museums are independent authorities that should not be governed by political intentions but should build up their activities on purely scientific grounds. Aron Emilsson criticises the government's desire to support integration efforts in various areas. It is said that peoples' education should not engage in integration. It is said that sport should not engage in integration. Neither are the study associations. Where, then, should social integration take place? Do the Swedish Democrats not see that integration must take place in all parts of society? Mr Emilsson goes on to say that we should not allocate resources to contemporary culture. It should be on its own, says Aron Emilsson's rhetoric. At the same time, to invest resources in contemporary culture is to invest in future cultural heritage. Aron Emilsson's nationalist policy is not only egotism here and now, but also egotism across generational boundaries. Aron Emilsson does not treat future generations to a broad cultural heritage.
i-8862045225bf40d8-135	Mr President, I would like to Culture and civil society contribute to a deeper, humane and more open society. When we meet, share experiences and reflect together, we are also better equipped to meet challenges around us. This is of particular importance when there is more uncertainty in our surrounding world and we see how Sweden is also split by a lack of security. From the Center Party we want to strengthen the welfare and stop the split of our country through a sharp increase in the general funding of municipalities and county councils so that people around our country get power and the opportunity to meet the challenges. At the same time, I must make it clear that we must be sparing about how we spend government tax money, not least now that the economic situation is good after all. Mr President, I would like to In the Center Party, we strive for everyone, regardless of their place of residence, background, disability or life situation, to have the opportunity to participate in a cultural life that holds both professional culture and amateur creation. This gives room for a broad cultural life that includes new digital cultural expressions as well as traditional cultural forms. This will also create a broad breeding ground for formation. Culture and civil society should be a safe place for everyone. This has been strongly demonstrated by, among other things, #metoo about sexual harassment and abuse that has taken place in both institutions and associations. It is important – there I agree with Gunilla Carlsson – that we now deal with this together and work to bring about a solid change. Civil society, where cultural associations, sport, outdoor life and education exist, plays a major role in keeping our society together and is a major and important contribution to the further development of our society. That is why we in the Center Party see that we need to give civil society better conditions on a broad front. An important part of a functioning civil society is the freedom needed to develop and contribute. Peoples' education has an important role here, and we in politics must not go in and run it too much. We can set goals for peoples' education, but how to achieve the goals must peoples' education itself be allowed to develop. That is why we do not want to see the government's proposed governance of certain funds for peoples' education. It is also civil society actors who are often fast in place when there is a need for cooperation between people. We could see it when, for a short period of time, many people sought refuge in our country. Civil society organisations were there first and quickly. We can see that even now that support is needed to get into our society. Then there is the sports club, the district farm association and the local district association on site. Then there is folk education and the cultural association. However, it is important that we, from the public side, pay attention and support to the important efforts of civil society, because there are problems that need to be taken seriously. There are problems with project grants at the expense of basic support that make the activities difficult to control and can hinder the development of the activities. It must also be made easier not to rely on funds from the public alone. Unfortunately, the government removed the right of deduction for grants to non-profit organisations. We want it back in the Center Party. We also want to investigate a broadening of this right of deduction. In short, it is time for an association law investigation, an investigation aimed at clarifying and strengthening the specificity of civil society and creating reasonable regulatory frameworks for civil society. Mr President, I would like to Access to a broad cultural life throughout the country is our top priority. This is in stark contrast to the government's reform on free admission to state museums, which primarily benefits the City of Stockholm – and at the same time the government's increase in VAT on cinema tickets primarily and severely hits cinemas and cultural activities in rural and small towns. We now see how cinemas in rural and small towns are forced to close down. It is a reality, a direct effect of government policy. The VAT on the cinema ticket must be restored, but before that can happen, the effects of the increase must be slowed down quickly. The Government's 25 million to investment aid for so-called green cinemas has no effect at all. That money is completely misdirected. From the Center Party, we want to use this resource directly for rural cinemas via the cultural cooperation model. It is in the municipalities, on site, that you see the effect and understand how it can be alleviated – not at the Swedish Film Institute at Gärdet in Stockholm. Mr President, I would like to For us in the Center Party, culture is something that should be accessible to everyone. That is why we want state cultural institutions to spread their activities throughout the country. We also want to develop the cooperation model for regional culture and, among other things, as I mentioned earlier, establish a system for a national Capital of Culture year. Greater support for assembly facilities is also important, particularly in rural and remote areas. This opens up opportunities for many to take part in and participate in different types of cultural events. Access to broadband throughout the country is also a very important factor in the possibility of both participating in and being able to create culture wherever you live. The effect of the Center Party policy will be that more people will have access to culture. This contributes to participation and a cohesive society. It also provides better conditions for greater cultural diversity and creativity. With this, Mr President, I would like to refer to the special opinion of the Centre Party.
i-8862045225bf40d8-152	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the post, Per Lodenius! I agree with a lot of what you said, not least about investing in culture throughout the country. At the same time, the Center Party is the party that together with the Moderates represents the biggest cuts in relation to the government's proposals. Some of the cuts that the Center Party is making are of the kind that one could expect: the Center Party does not want to invest in the Opera and Dramatic Theatre, increased compensation for artists and so on. More perplexingly, I think it is that the Centre Party, which claims to be a party for the whole country, does not want to allocate more resources to regional culture or invest in libraries throughout the country. As I said in my speech, a tenth of the library branches around the country were shut down during the year of the Alliance. Why doesn't the Center think it's important to keep the smaller libraries in the country? After all, the area where the Centre Party has a higher level of ambition than the government is about the appropriation for assembly facilities. There's the Center alone in the Alliance about wanting to provide resources. The Moderates and Christian Democrats are on the same level as the government, while the Liberals want to go in the opposite direction and propose a cut of SEK 30 million. My question is: have you not tried to bring your alliance partners, or have you tried and failed?
i-8862045225bf40d8-157	Mr President, I would like to Niclas Malmberg! To begin with, libraries are a municipal matter and activity. We have the Library Act, and there's government governance. The Center Party wants to provide larger general grants to municipalities and county councils. With this, we want to show that we believe more in the municipalities' ability to interpret and understand what is needed in the municipalities themselves and how to conduct their library activities there, as long as the Library Act is complied with. These are local solutions. It's about preserving and perhaps developing library branches. There are also other ways, such as cooperation with associations and book buses. There we think the municipalities are better sent than the Environmental Party, which sits at the department here in Stockholm, to decide how it should see how out in the municipalities. As far as the budget is concerned, it is the Centre Party's own budget. We do not negotiate with the other parties in the Alliance or other parties at all when we work out our budget. Then we agree on many different parts, but the budget is the Centre Party's own. That question is clear. Instead, a reflection is why the Green Party wants to go in and govern when it is municipal activities that it is about. Libraries, cultural schools and public education – where you want to go in and tell them exactly what to do. In cultural activities, they are said to do this and this to receive grants, instead of letting the associations and operators, who are in place, see for themselves how they can use them. What is the danger of letting people's education itself, based on the goals, find out what to have in their business?
i-8862045225bf40d8-163	Mr President, I would like to I note that Per Lodenius does not think that the closures of libraries have been so serious that we should allocate specific resources from the State side to the area. The resources that the government now provides for municipalities in terms of libraries and music and culture schools are not about us going in and directing the activities as such, but we support them financially. It is the municipalities themselves that decide how the resources are to be used. Per Lodenius says that there is some consensus between the alliance parties in cultural policy. On one thing, there is a consensus, and it is about the appropriations that you want to go forward with cuts. There's a deal. There is not a single grant line where the four alliance parties find each other and want to go forward with a joint venture. There is not a single budget line where one sees that there is a need for which one wants to take responsibility jointly. I am concerned that this is what will continue to characterise alliance policy – the least common denominator of blocking each other's efforts rather than seeing the efforts that each party wants to make. The Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party have a cooperation in cultural policy where we affirm each other's interests. If one party has paid attention to one area and sees that something needs to be done, the other parties do not block this. Within the alliance parties, it is exactly the opposite: it is the one who wants the least to set the agenda.
i-8862045225bf40d8-168	Mr President, I would like to It is perhaps the case that the Social Democrats have backed up their responsibility in terms of cultural policy, because I do not think that it is really up to proposals to be put forward which may then be given seven announcements, such as the cultural heritage bill, where the Green Party even had more reservations than the alliance parties when it was presented. I think this shows quite clearly that one does not have a proper basis for one's cultural policy. The same applies, for example, to film policy, where the Swedish Film Institute now even goes out and criticises the government for not having responded to several announcements. That could be interpreted. They talk about VAT reductions and how the advice works. So I do not think it always works so well in the government either, looking at how the proposals come out and what happens there.
i-8862045225bf40d8-171	Mr President, I would like to In fact, behind such a dry name as Category 17, much of man's expression is hidden. By painting, playing theatre, writing, playing music or dancing, we can show joy, sorrow and all feelings in between. By being something that is created deep within us, art becomes universal. It can be understood across language boundaries and national boundaries. It has the ability to include and create community, but also raise questions, be uncomfortable and pave the way for something new. At a time when we see increased contradictions in the world, culture is becoming increasingly important. In the field of expenditure, there is also support for formation in many different forms. Our cultural institutions, museums, libraries, archives, folk high schools and of course all study associations all contribute in different ways to enable everyone across the country to deepen their knowledge, their understanding of history, themselves, their surroundings and, in the long run, to formulate thoughts about their future. In a situation where ill health increases in many groups, more and more children and young people feel stressed and everyday life in many ways is about getting from one point to another, we need culture, outdoor life and sport as a water hole, a place for replenishing other values. For me, therefore, as a left-wing party, everything within what we are debating today, Category 17, must be seen as a crucial part of welfare. I think I hear that many of my opponents here today share the image of the value of culture in people's lives, and that is why I think it is both surprising and sad that something that is so important should not cost more. I would have expected the various budget movements to show that you want to make a little different investments, but that it would distinguish so much in SEK and the ring comes a little bit as a shock to me who is new to the Committee on Culture. There is a difference of 1.2 billion between the proposal that we in the Left Party have agreed with the government and the proposal that the Moderates are advocating. The opposition party with the most important budget is over 500 million lower. If you don't think you can afford investments even now that the economy is on the rise, it is for me a sign that culture, sport and education issues are not very high on the agenda of the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats, even if the representatives of the Committee on Culture are involved. For the Left Party, these issues are an important part of welfare, and we are very pleased with the development of the cultural budget that has taken place in this parliamentary term. Mr President, I would like to I would like to highlight some of the efforts proposed in the current draft budget. During my years as a municipal politician, I have seen the difference that access to libraries can mean for children and young people. Librarians can inspire increased reading, and book discussions train analytical skills. This gives children joy, and they can then write their own stories to read to the class. Libraries play a central role in getting more people to benefit from the tax that literature is. That is why I am so pleased that the draft budget for 2018 includes a library investment of 250 million. Behind the binders opens up the unknown, stories with the power to get you transferred to another time or to another world, an opportunity to escape your own everyday life. Maybe you'll come back from your imagination with new insights. Imagination and creativity are, of course, a common thread through the part of the budget that is being debated here today. In previous years funds have been added to the municipal cultural schools, as we have heard here before, to give children the opportunity to take part in the rewarding activities. For the coming years, there is an effort to get more educators in place through various educational initiatives. It is about completely new courses but also about the extension of places on existing courses. In addition, there is a new appropriation for the establishment of a national cultural school centre. I think it feels very positive to be able to get national support for the cultural schools in order to contribute to follow-up and development. But in order for us to get more people to want to work in the cultural sector, we need to focus politically on working conditions. The Left Party has been pushing for a long time to strengthen the conditions for professional cultural creators. Perhaps the municipality and county councils need to cooperate so that the musicians in the symphony orchestra or the actors at the regional theatre can combine their services with teaching in order to receive full-time service. At government level, we need to ensure that the security systems work for freelancers and combine self-employment with project or seasonal work. We must also ensure that funds are provided and that we have stable agreements that allow fair compensation for what cultural workers create. In previous budgets agreed between the Left Party and the Government, the library allowance has been increased to provide better conditions for authors. We have also fought for the so-called MU agreements to give artists a reasonable remuneration at exhibitions and for this to be respected. Prior to 2018, the investment will be further strengthened by SEK 60 million in compensation and grants to cultural creators in a wide range of areas. Mr President, I would like to This morning, Ekot reported that we have the lowest youth unemployment rate in ten years. It feels very good. At the same time, the differences between young people who have completed upper secondary education and those who have not. Much is of course done at municipal level in order for more people to receive complete grades, but for many, the pedagogy and speed required for full-time studies within Komvux are not suitable. For them, an education within folk high school can be the solution. Folkhögskolan in Sweden has a long tradition of being a strong complement and alternative to the regular education system. It challenges the dominant utility perspective on education by focusing on knowledge and skills as paths for a person to grow and develop. The strength of the Folkhögskolan lies in its freedom to design its courses according to the needs of the participants and to adapt to the conditions prevailing in the places where the folkhögskolan operates. In the light of the large number of pupils who do not complete primary and secondary school, it is gratifying that we have been able to agree that folk high school can play an important role in young people's opportunities for increased education, entry into the labour market and higher education. For 2018, the increase of as much as 380 million, which corresponds to 5,000 places on a general and special course. In total, 8 000 new seats will have been added before the end of the term of office, of which I, as a left-wing party, am very proud. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the conditions of sport and sport. Just as I have previously highlighted how the Left Party wants everyone to be able to take part in culture and education, we see the value of everyone being able to participate in sports. Today, unfortunately, it is children and young people from resourceful homes who are most involved in society. Children from economically vulnerable families and children with disabilities are more excluded. Then we see that it takes both new ways of working and lower fees to be able to say seriously that the country's sports associations are open to everyone. In order to attract all children and young people, it is also necessary to see which other structures are excluded, in addition to the economic ones. What about the representation on the boards? What about the distribution of grants? And what about the basic values on the floor, in the stands and in the changing rooms? What about the racist or homophobic language? A few weeks ago we received information about the work carried out by the Swedish Sports Federation on norms, and that feels very promising. In combination with the substantial economic strengthening that has been achieved in recent years, the conditions are now good for us to be able to have a sporting life with room for everyone in the near future. Finally, I would like to express my support for the proposal in the committee's report and for reservations 2 and 3 by S, V and MP.
i-8862045225bf40d8-191	Mr President, I would like to Area of expenditure 17 contains many parts. The previous speaker has touched on many of the areas covered by the expenditure area. I will do as some speakers have done in the past, namely keep in the mainstream of cultural policy. This does not mean in any way that neither I nor the Liberals are giving priority to people's imagery in any way – quite the contrary. Mr President, I would like to Culture is the infrastructure of intellect. I have been pointing this out for three years at this time every year, and I will continue to do so. It is a classic liberal mission to strengthen the individual's ability to take power over his own life. Culture in its different forms of expression means getting to know yourself, others and society. Therefore, culture is a democratic right and a core of democracy. But it is also a democratic opportunity. It's not enough to know where to find information. You must also have knowledge that enables you to orient yourself in a world filled with claims. It is something that actually comes up almost every day in the debate right now in our time. As a liberal, I could actually admire the government's proposal for a cultural budget. It is relatively large. There are very large increases in expenditure in this area. It's bets. But is it enough, Mr President, to note what is on the last line of the budget columns? Mr President, I would like to Quality is the key word in Liberal cultural policy. The principle of arm's length should apply, i.e. that it is cultural creators and experts who make artistic decisions and the decisions that art actually depends on and not politicians. It is here, Mr President, that the government's draft budget becomes problematic. In fact, I cannot recall that in the past we have seen such short arms, as many small and narrow drainpipes as all the money is poured into and distributed into. It balances so close that the government makes direct orders on which cultural form to perform by whom, when, where and how you can actually come. Cultural policy must safeguard the value of culture itself against purely beneficial ends. Public grants and grants shall operate quality, accessibility and access – nothing else. Culture is not an integration project, a labour market policy measure or a cohesion measure. Of course, it may actually be, but it is not just that and is not the only purpose. Cultural policy should safeguard both breadth and excellence. Liberals want the cultural experiences offered to be of the highest quality and also want to encourage individuals to participate and create cultural activities throughout the country. In this, the cultural cooperation model has a central role and a key role. What we see in the draft budget of the majority is many small and narrow pipes, where the money is distributed and too much leads to the inner city of Stockholm and to the suburbs of our large cities. Mr President, I would like to We know and we want to be different. The state does not always know best where money does the best good or which goal formulations do the best good. This is known at local and regional level. State cultural policy needs to be reduced in its governance and increased in its permissive approach. When the model of cooperation was introduced, little additional State resources were added, and the part actually allocated to the regions has not increased at the same rate as regional funding. This has contributed to the difficulty of achieving a direct renewal of cultural policy, which was one of the aims of the collaborative model. That is why we, the Liberals, set aside SEK 100 million more than the government to strengthen the cultural cooperation model and actually put strength behind the words. Mr President, I would like to Reading and literature should be a high priority in cultural and educational policy. It is about democracy, and it is about equality and equality. Ultimately, it's about education. Sweden has a tradition of high literacy and a great interest in the good story, but there are, as I said, major gaps in reading habits. These gaps have an impact on school outcomes and social participation and thus on the individual's empowerment. That is why the role of libraries is so incredibly central to strengthening the position of reading and literature, and it cannot be overestimated. We are therefore making a targeted increase in funding to enable increased purchases of literature for both public libraries and school libraries. The appropriation should also be used for security investments in libraries that have problems with disorder, threats and sometimes even open violence, Mr President. The libraries should be the free zone for reading they are actually meant to be. Finally, Mr President, the Parliament rejected the Liberals' proposal for revenue estimates or the distribution of expenditure by budget heading by framework decision. This means that Sweden takes a different path from the one we want to see in the Liberals. Sweden will lose knowledge, cultural diversity and defence capabilities. Our draft budget is to be seen as a whole. That is why we Liberals choose not to take part in the decision on the allocation of appropriations under Category 17 under paragraph 1. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal as a whole.
i-8862045225bf40d8-202	Mr President, I would like to During the most intense period and the hottest debate on the film issue, the Liberals were one of the biggest opponents and strongly critical of the government's shift in film policy towards a state film policy. Now they support the government's film policy in terms of funding, while at the same time opposing the government's policy in this area in the budget text. This creates, as it were, some basis for conflagration and headache. It is a little strange because, with the Liberals' budget, we would not only get the government's film policy but also a film policy which the Liberals themselves have strongly criticised in the past. My question is, therefore, what is the offer made by the Liberals on the film issue?
i-8862045225bf40d8-204	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Aron Emilsson! Of course, we are strongly critical of the current film policy. The implementation of a new film policy as we want to see it – with a modern film agreement where the industry's partners actually have the opportunity to sit down and talk to each other and come to an agreement, and where you get the revenue that all players in the entire film political arena can contribute – takes quite a long time. Then we will have to live with the proposal that exists. Sometimes you have to decide to put a card down, and during the time it takes for a new government to introduce a new film policy we will have to live with the old one. This does not in any way mean that we accept or will continue to implement this policy after a change of government in September next year.
i-8862045225bf40d8-207	Mr President, I would like to At the same time, some of the announcements that we in the opposition jointly agreed and directed against the government were that we want to set up a new thorough, holistic investigation. Bengt Eliasson mentions that it may take a long time to get into place with the structure of the old form, or a similar one, for the film area – semi-state and with the industry participants. At the same time, these very mechanisms and infrastructure are already in place. There are no long timeframes required and there are no major difficulties in getting back to the old kind of structures. These are tried and tested systems that have proved their worth by their existence and the proven experience accumulated there. So it would probably go quite smoothly back to that. So when you buy the government's way of putting this into the budget, you indirectly say yes to the rescheduling that has been done. Some of the alliance parties do not draw the same conclusion as the Liberals but want to go back to the old structure. I have another question that Bengt Eliasson is happy to answer, and it concerns the equally empty message about Sweden's cultural environments. The contribution to cultural properties is reduced by SEK 25 million. This applies not least to the Statens fastighetsverk, which over the years has alerted about what happened when you got half the budget cut off by the government. Our common settlements around the country are literally decaying, distorted, fulfied and crumbling. This requires a national strategy and a handshake, not only for these cultural environments but also for Sweden's largest cultural heritage – collected church environments. Nor have I heard from the Liberals about what the party intends to do when the cry comes that there is a choice between social welfare or the care of our common historical cultural environments.
i-8862045225bf40d8-212	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again for the questions, Aron Emilsson. As far as the film policy is concerned, we are responsible for our budget. Liberals are presenting an independent budget that stands for itself. We believe that with a new investigation to give a starting point for a new film policy, it will take at least two years before the policy is in place, including time of investigation and talks with all parties. It is about actually producing a sharp proposal that lasts for a very long time and in which all parties can agree. That is why we believe that one must be so honest in its budget management that one says that there is something during the time it happens. That does not mean that you are satisfied with what is right now. When it comes to the National Property Board with several cultural environment issues, I can agree with Aron Emilsson that these are very important issues. That is something we have to deal with in the long term. At the same time, the Swedish Church is separate from the state, and the Swedish Church has a responsibility for the church antiquarian buildings and more that it actually owns. It is necessary to meet society's requirements for buildings in cultural history to be kept in order and in good condition. This also means that the state may have to go in on the day the church actually renounces the properties for some other purpose, but as it is today it is the ownership that applies to all properties in the country. If there are church buildings or other cultural historical values that are privately owned or owned by someone else, this does not play a major role in financing. What we do is take responsibility for what is the state's possessions so far.
i-8862045225bf40d8-217	Mr President, I would like to On April 7, this year, a truck drove at high speed into Drottninggatan, not far from here, and mowed down a large number of people. Several people died and others were seriously injured. I was there some day afterwards and experienced the reaction to the terror. The people responded with a flower sea. The whole Sergel stairway was like a flower splendor. I saw a police car covered in flowers. I saw a plaque full of post-it notes with different messages of love. But there was also a tangible warmth between people — respect for one another. It was not sharp elbows but warm and friendly. I thought, "This is how it would always be." In our society, there is a great deal of people who make great non-profit contributions and are carriers of human warmth and generosity. They're my heroes. They are heard and not seen very much but go in the service of others. They give more than they receive. They don't get tired of doing good. They are in civil society, which is part of what we are addressing in today's cultural debate. You and I owe it to them, because it is largely their efforts that make our lives bearable. They're sometimes called quiet in the country. I call them children of bliss, and I think they are worth a song of their own. I have met so many beautiful people with mercy in their arms who do not point fingers to the weak but meet with an outstretched hand. At a time when dark forces prevail, they have the power to resist. When egoism builds walls they don't lose courage. I've met so many beautiful people, children of bliss. I have met so many warm people in a often hard and cold world. It is they who make peace around them a bright and friendly atmosphere. They go in the service of others, without profit for themselves, and they show us the other way how to become true and whole. I've met so many warm people, they're children of bliss. I've met so many brave people who have shown a sense of action and courage. When terror spreads fear and fear they help us to dare to believe that love it binds together and conquers hate. And the people choose sides with a flower sea. I've met so many brave people children of bliss they're children of bliss.
i-8862045225bf40d8-225	Mr President, I would like to Before I was elected to the Swedish Parliament, I was employed for ten years in an aid organisation in Gothenburg that worked with people who lived in homelessness or abuse or had psychiatric problems. There I met volunteers who made great voluntary contributions. A common expression was to meet at eye level. It means that we have the same human dignity regardless of the background and life situation. The work was partly – to a large extent, perhaps I should say – based on funding from the municipality, but the individual donors were, of course, an important part in keeping the business going. The gift tax deduction introduced during the time of the Christian Democrats in the government has generated many millions for the organisations that are approved recipients. In a report from the Swedish Parliament's investigation service, the Swedish Cancer Society states that, thanks to the gift tax deduction, they received SEK 10.5 million more in 2012–2014 than if the deduction had not been available. Similarly, UNICEF states that during the same period they received at least SEK 8 million extra thanks to the deduction. They also state that in 2015, they lost SEK 1.6 million in revenue because the new government announced that the right to deduct would be removed for the year. At a time when we see an increase in international concern and human suffering, the gift tax rebate could help to increase the amount of funds collected. But the government thus removed the right to deduct, which was a concrete and clear measure, which also directly benefited many people. The Christian Democrats are now proposing that the deduction be reinstated. Mr President, I would like to In recent years we have become painfully aware of how recruitment to IS and other violent extreme movements have been going on where young Swedes are. The Christian Democrats therefore propose that the Living History Forum should be given the task of informing about the crimes of violent Islamism, which is not being done today. In this way, the expertise gathered there in enlightening the atrocities of Nazism and the crimes of communist regimes against humanity can also be used to highlight violent Islamism. To this we are allocating 10 million extra to the budget by the Christian Democrats. I would also like to mention what is happening right now in our society and in large parts of the world. The Metoo movement has permeated large parts of Swedish cultural life – hashtags like Silence Take, Quiet Dance, We sing out and When the music quiets are just a few examples. We in Parliament agree that what is happening is absolutely appalling. We have to solve this together. I would like to quote what is written in the primary school curriculum. Now what is happening is not primarily about young people, but about adults who behave terribly badly, and I do not think that the words of ministers or any parliamentary decision are enough to change this. But if children and young people can be taught fundamental ethical values, I think there is a possibility that we can see a more equal society in the future. The curriculum applies to all types of schools – private as municipal, Christian as Muslim and so on. The first paragraph of the curriculum reads as follows: The education must convey and anchor respect for human rights and the fundamental democratic values on which Swedish society is founded. Everyone who works in school should also promote respect for each person's self-worth and respect for our common environment. The inviolability of human life, the freedom and integrity of the individual, the equal value of all people, equality between women and men, and solidarity with the weak and vulnerable are the values that the school should express and convey. In line with the ethics of Christian tradition and Western humanism, this is done through the individual's education of justice, generosity, tolerance and responsibility. ..................................................... This is what we are building our country on. These are fundamental ethical values where social concern is at the heart of the issue. It now turns out that these values need to be restored in our society. We must all work together to make it a reality.
i-8862045225bf40d8-239	Mr President, I would like to It is high time for cultural policy to extend and take the place it deserves in the debate on society. Far too often I see how culture is treated as a kind of nice pastime for a few, as a weekend craft for the closest interested and as a policy area that should almost apologize for its existence and that constantly needs to justify why there should be at all. This is happening instead of discussing what cultural policy should contain. Now it is time for all of us cultural politicians to settle with a lack of self-confidence and straight back replace it with confidence and confidence in the future. In order to succeed, we must recognise that money plays a role in cultural policy. How much money we spend on culture is absolutely crucial for how strong cultural education should be, how many are to be covered by it and who is to be covered. Anyone who wants more cultural policy for more people must also dare to admit that that conviction will cost money and that it is worth it, just as we need to have more resources at school to improve school results or more police in order to better combat crime. As in most other areas of policy, it is in the budget tables that it is determined whether fine words are worth anything at all. Fine speech in principle programs is a waste of paper or storage space if it is not followed up with concrete priorities – priorities in crowns and crowns. Mr President, I would like to The cultural budget that we are debating here today is proof that we in the government are doing what we say. We've replaced billions of people with billions of dollars. We've replaced years of ants with seven miles of life. We now have the largest cultural budget ever in the history of our country. We thereby make the single largest increase in the budget ever, both in SEK and as a share. Never before has more money of the government's total expenditure been spent on culture in our country. During the term of office, the cultural budget has increased by 22%. There is more than another SEK 1.5 billion to culture – more culture to more, simply. We are investing in both free art and our whole society, especially at a time when authoritarian forces are eating their way into our society. These forces have realised that it is the power over the story, the influence over the thought that, in addition to the repressive coercion, constitutes the way to power. It is in this arena that the political conflict is increasingly taking place. That is why authoritarian forces are mobilizing in cultural policy, and they can manifest themselves in many guises. At one time the authoritarian order was strong in socialist regimes. Today we see it growing strong in nationalist and right-wing radical circles. The goal of today's authoritarian movements is the homogenous society, where there is no room for deviations or wayward thoughts, where the forced community crowds out the pluralism of voices, where a plethora of ideas and perspectives is not desirable. I'm not gonna let this happen. I'm going to do everything I can to unleash the power of free art. Art that is not free is meaningless. Freedom means to me that no politician, regardless of his place of residence, has the right to dictate the content of culture. Freedom means to me that culture, art, should not be made dependent on different political or commercial interests. Mr President, I would like to Among other things, the government invests 115 new million in a comprehensive package for free art. It will help to give musicians, artists, writers and other hardworking cultural workers additional time to focus on their artistic activities. Exhibitors and performers of performing arts will be able to offer venues and exhibition halls to free art to a greater extent. Book publishers and cultural journals have increased opportunities to oxygenate the public conversation with new cultural and intellectual perspectives. Freedom increases even more if it is preceded by a strong formation. Formation provides intellectual orientation, new perspectives and practical opportunities in everyday life. Another word for this is freedom. Formation and freedom belong together. The budget bill therefore includes a total of SEK 275 million extra per year for library activities in order for books and newspapers to be able to come closer to people and thus to benefit more people, so that libraries can be libraries and nothing else. A digital competence boost, which will be carried out by the country's skilled librarians, means that more people will be supported in making use of the opportunities of digitalisation. The fees for the National Archives data are abolished, so that our common data can finally be available to everyone. And for us it is just as obvious that children and young people should be able to go to culture school as to football training. Therefore, we continue with the initiative at the cultural school. In addition to the support of SEK 100 million per year, we establish a national cultural school centre for knowledge and collaboration within the cultural school. We are also taking a major step in university politics – a cultural school life that involves new educational pathways to work in the cultural school so that the teacher supply can be secured for the future. Another major contribution for youth culture is that Young Klara becomes a national scene for children's and youth theatres. This, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen and Members of Parliament, is a small selection of Sweden's government's historic major investment in art and culture. For us, therefore, more culture for more is not just a beautiful formulation; it is a concrete reality that we have built up.
i-8862045225bf40d8-256	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I have to say that I admire and share the commitment of the Minister for Culture, and we both have the ambition to raise the status of culture, cultural policy and cultural debate. As expected, we heard the Minister of Culture tell us about the biggest budget in modern times. And to quote the Minister of Culture, money matters, and it is in the tables that it is decided. I would like to say to the Minister for Culture and Democracy that it is not only in the tables but perhaps more in the annual accounts that it is decided. With regard to the major reforms implemented by the government, we can see that things did not always turn out as planned. We can start with the biggest reform during the term of office, free admission to state museums, SEK 80 million. This would lead to lowering the thresholds and reaching new groups. Yeah, it went like that. Looking at the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis, it turns out that it did not contribute to any new groups. Instead, it became the same people who crossed the threshold time and again. There's nothing wrong with that, but that's not really what you wanted to achieve. The SEK 100 million of reduced fees at Kulturskolan, a deal with the Left Party, would lead to an average of SEK 250 per semester in a lower fee. Did that happen? No, suddenly it would be enough for everything from quality enhancement to accessibility. We should not even talk about film policy. There is still no one at the Ministry of Culture who can show with credibility that there was actually more money for the film, although it was the promise. The only thing I know is that the country cinemas are on their knees and that every cow now asks the minister to reconsider. The SEK 25 million in VAT compensation will now go to digitalisation instead. For a while it would even lead to new cinemas. In the area by area, there will be something else afterwards. It is not in the tables that we can read what the government wants with its cultural policy. Possibly, at best, in the annual report, but barely there. Mr President, I would like to I do not doubt the Minister's ambitions, but why should we trust the government this time?
i-8862045225bf40d8-264	Mr President, I would like to I thank Olof Lavesson for the opportunity to reply. The first thing that strikes me when I read the Moderates' draft budget is that it is already stated at the outset that the government is investing too much and that we are on the verge of irresponsibility. It's an interesting entrance. Let me relate to what my party partner said earlier: If we have nothing to bet, it will be wrong; if we bet a lot, it will be wrong. I believe that we must all share the view that culture needs investment if we are to succeed in maintaining and developing our society. More culture is needed for more people, and it costs money. Then we must have the courage to give priority. If you read the proposals of all bourgeois parties, you are struck by the fact that it is very divided. Even if I read the Moderates' proposals and see that there is an idea and politics there that I am challenged by and want to argue against, I am worried about the future when it looks so different. The obvious counter-question to Olof Lavesson is therefore: How will you get this together? You don't have a line. It is a completely contradictory policy. I am particularly concerned when the Swedish Democrats in the pulpit confirm what we have all long suspected: that you agreed jointly on the announcements regarding film policy. The developed cooperation that Olof Lavesson has so many times denied is thus reality. What if the nightmare comes true and you take over power?
i-8862045225bf40d8-271	Mr President, I would like to It is strange that I should have to tell a Minister for Democracy that we have eight parties in the Swedish Parliament. When the Minister's party was in opposition, it did not pursue the same policy as the Social Democrats, on the contrary. There were so many differences that you could hardly count them. The Alliance has a common frame and spine. But we are four different parties, and we are proud of that. Together we form a whole. With the additional party that the Minister mentioned, there is neither cooperation, dialogue nor dialogue – so that we make it clear once and for all. The minister didn't answer my question. Time and again, you push through something and promise money and tell them what to do. But they do not end up there; it will not be as has been said. As far as the film is concerned, there are letters to the Ministry of Culture saying that everything has failed in terms of dialogue and conversations, but the Minister answers: This is solved through the Film Institute. As far as museum visitors are concerned, the Minister insists that this has led to the arrival of new groups, but it has not done so. As far as cultural school money is concerned, this has not led to a reduction in fees. The minister himself acknowledged that, because if he did, all the money would go to Danderyd, Täby and other rich Stockholm municipalities – and that is not what he wanted. Now the country's library is struggling with how to handle SEK 225 million. It will increase supply and accessibility, says the Minister. What does that mean? Should you start regulating opening hours in the same way as you regulate entrance fees in museums? Again, it is ambitious and good that the Minister for Culture should raise the budget. I am not going to complain about it, although I think that it is being done too much and irresponsiblely in a turbulent time. However, I understand the ambition. But what is the point of raising the budget so much if you do not know where the money ends up? If you're going in the wrong direction, it's not a good idea to double the speed. The Minister for Culture and the Government should also reflect on this.
i-8862045225bf40d8-278	Mr President, I would like to We invest in culture in our country because we need more culture in our country. There are lots of ideas and studies that show what and how to invest. The cultural school is an excellent example of this. We set up an investigation to get black and white what we suspected and as many interest groups have shown: that there are class differences in which children have access to the cultural school. At the same time, we already knew that we could invest SEK 100 million a year to increase quality. We were clear that the increase in quality may be reduced fees for more people to gain access, but that it may also be buying in more instruments, developing skills for teachers and adapting the facilities for functional variation. All this is now coming out, and it is a huge success. I go country and country around visiting cultural schools, and it is a joy to see what they are doing and how this increases the opportunity for more children to take part in the cultural schools' activities. We prioritise investing a total of SEK 275 million in public libraries. It is a bet that is needed more than ever. It cannot have escaped Olof Lavesson that too many libraries struggle to be a library. We have a fantastic library team, which was worked out under my predecessor. But those are only pretty words on paper if we do not invest in the libraries being able to live up to the library law. There are fine words about educational activities and that democracy should be at the centre, but in some places libraries have to fight for them to also function as social offices. We really need to invest in the libraries. The 275 million are praised by the public libraries: Finally, Sweden has a government that sees that we need more. That is why the government is taking this responsibility.
i-8862045225bf40d8-285	Mr President, I would like to I should like to raise a specific question. The Minister for Culture says that she has travelled around and visited cultural schools and that that was cheer and praise to the Minister for Culture and the work that the government does. At the cultural schools that I have visited, it is said that there is a great concern among management and staff at the cultural schools around Sweden. In particular, two proposals of the Cultural School Investigation concern us. One is that the music should be played in leisure time and not during school time. The second is that students should play in groups and not receive individual instruction. Let me take an example of the first proposal. Two and a half kilometres from Munkedal in Munkedal municipality is the town of Hedecas. Now the municipality has decided that all cultural school activities will take place outside of school time. The children have two and a half miles home with school shootings, and then they go back to Munkedal to play at the cultural school. This doesn't work; you don't do that. This is just one place, but seen to the whole of Sweden there are many students who will not get part of the cultural school activities if everything is to be in their spare time.
i-8862045225bf40d8-290	Mr President, I would like to We are here to talk about the cultural budget. But instead of talking about the huge cuts that the Christian Democrats want to make on Swedish culture, Roland Utbolt chooses to talk about a proposal that an investigator has put forward that is not government policy. We have not yet put forward the proposals of the Cultural School Investigation. Roland Utbolt is talking about something that is not a reality but an idea from an investigator. Instead, we should talk about why you want to cut off support for artists, a support in which we prioritise and invest. Do the Christian Democrats not see that we need more culture for more and that the artists' conditions are absolutely central to a living cultural policy? We should also say that the Christian Democrats want to slaughter film support. You want to cut it down with an incredible 190 million kroner. It would be a living nightmare to give you power. I would like answers on how you think about your policy. Talk about the budget instead of talking about an investigator's proposal which is not even part of the reality yet.
i-8862045225bf40d8-295	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister for Culture and Democracy. I had hoped that the Minister for Culture would reassure the school staff and those involved there around the country, but they are not getting that calm here. I thought the Minister had his own opinion on the matter. But, okay, we'll take this with the budget instead. We have a sum. We heard here in the previous shift with Olof Lavesson that there is huge investment from the minister. I think it's good in some parts. But with the amount you have, you set priorities and decide what you want to invest in. We Christian Democrats are investing in and prioritising restored welfare, a promise of welfare. The queues in healthcare are growing today, there are no retirement homes and the police are suffering from management problems. Instead of making 63 tax increases carried out by the government, we have a draft budget in which we greatly increase the appropriations for hospital care, primary care and care for the elderly. Instead of raising taxes, we want to reduce taxes on labour and savings. That's the answer I can give. We make other priorities. It's about humanity and warmth.
i-8862045225bf40d8-298	Mr President, I would like to I'm almost speechless. The Christian Democrats' member of the Committee on Culture in the Swedish Parliament obviously does not have a cultural policy. When the Christian Democrats get the chance to put forward what initiatives they want to make, or defend why they want to cut back on everything the government wants to invest in, they start talking about other priorities in other policy areas. It's very boring.
i-8862045225bf40d8-299	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by agreeing with the Minister for Culture on the value of extending culture. It has a strong intrinsic value and many beautiful instrumental values. The Swedish Democrats have always been mainly in the cultural budget. Now the government is rushing, but it is doing so, as has been said, in the wrong direction. The Minister for Culture speaks in vague terms of concern that culture and art should be governed in different ways by other political forces than their own. At the same time, it is clear that with the Environmental Party at the Ministry of Culture and the Government's cultural policy, we have an ideological break that rests on many of our cultural and knowledge institutions. Cultural life is not free with this government. We can see it in the museum sector. We see it in libraries and in the cultural school, as just recently mentioned here. Everything should be governed by more or less conditional, ideologically motivated and based government missions. This can range from opening up for arbitrary thinning in the museum sector to politicised assignments on integration and gender analysis. These aspects may take precedence over the possibility of historical research and expertise on artifacts, objects and stories to be shown. We also hear this from the museum sector itself. It is in the cultural school that it is felt at the local level that a government inquiry has already laid the foundations for the new activities it will carry out against group and circus and less of individual teaching. It is more about integration, language cafés and meeting places in libraries than it is about motivating and understanding the value of language and literature itself. My question to the Minister for Culture is: Can't you see the beam in your own eye at the Department of Culture?
i-8862045225bf40d8-304	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to stress the absurdity of discussing politics at all with the Swedish Democrats when there is clearly no budget to bear. It is unrealistic funding. It will be very difficult to discuss the different parts of the cultural budget or different policy areas when there is a patchwork of funding that does not stick together in the seams, but I still give it a chance. I would really like to highlight freedom and the importance of ensuring that cultural policy is free from political impoverishment. This is precisely why the Cultural Heritage Bill – which I spent a lot of time on last year, worked and presented to the Swedish Parliament and which the Riksdag has adopted – includes a museum law. It is a museum law that describes our museums as institutions carrying knowledge, where scientific methods should prevail and where the experts are attributed the power to make assessments. Politicians, like Aron Emilsson, should not be the ones who decide what is saved or developed or what to do with something. I would never have put so much effort into working out a cultural heritage bill, a cultural heritage policy for our country and a museum law that cuts the ties between politicians and our cultural institutions if I did not seriously see the risks of the times in which we live and wanted to do everything possible to protect our cultural heritage.
i-8862045225bf40d8-308	Mr President, I would like to It is very clear from culture in general and in the museum sector, as well as from most of the opposition parties, that expert knowledge, historical knowledge, empirical knowledge and research opportunities are down-priority with the Government's Museum Act, the Cultural Heritage Bill and the general view of the museum world. Politically-motivated conditions and missions become the weighty and the most important. It is obvious, and many in the museum sector have also testified to this. This is not something that the Swedish Democrats are making up. Then it may be interesting to note that our exercise in the field of expenditure and our budget is based on an ambitious international analysis and an identification of where the needs are greatest. This applies, for example, to contributions to cultural properties, the establishment of one of the largest cultural reforms of modern times such as cultural slots or a substantial reinforcement through the Swedish collection in the form of a cultural heritage-ROT deduction, a cultural heritage fund and other parts that civil society calls for. There's no response from the government. Then when it comes to the cultural heritage bill in general, I agree that politicians should not govern how the cultural heritage is saved, conveyed, told, protected, nurtured and maintained. But that is exactly what the government is doing through its cultural heritage bill. It happens in area by area. It is in the museum sector, in the libraries and cultural school. It has already been experienced from the local level that it is the state that has begun to govern this and no longer those at the municipal level. You still have to have an answer from the Department of Culture. I can only note that there is hardly any mention of our largest collective cultural heritage in the form of the church. Today, in many localities, it is faced with the choice of giving priority to the care and maintenance of the ecclesiastical cultural heritage or social care or the like. It is based on the resources we invest here from the state level. The church is responsible, but it is only covered from about a quarter to a third of the church antiquarian compensation. The rest will pay for it yourself. What does the government say about that?
i-8862045225bf40d8-312	Mr President, I would like to The government is investing in the conservation of the cultural environment in the budget that we are now presenting. We are doing so as part of the fact that we have now put forward a cultural heritage policy and that Sweden has a cultural heritage policy for the first time. It is ambitious, and we are making investments that are needed. As Minister of Culture, I would like to take this opportunity – not least because I have a particular political responsibility for our free media – to highlight the hostility that the Swedish Democrats express in their very clear way towards journalism. Free journalism is a cornerstone of our democracy. It's supposed to be able to review the powers like me. Journalism shows time and again how it exposes abuses and abuse of power. I am deeply concerned about the campaign that the Swedish Democrats are conducting in which they so clearly paint journalism and the free media as enemies. I think we must all understand the seriousness of this force, which is trying in various ways to break down our democracy.
i-8862045225bf40d8-316	Mr President, I would like to In March 2016, American-Polish journalist Anne Applebaum wrote a very talked about text: Is this the end of the West as we know it? A little simplistic, the thesis that Anne Applebaum was pushing was that our Western societies and our legal systems as we have come to know them were faced with three choices that could fundamentally change the prevailing world order. Just over a year and a half later, we can see that Anne Applebaum was right in two of her predictions. There was not an ultranationalist win in the French presidential election. But both Brexit and the American presidential elections ended in the way Anne Applebaum described. It is difficult to say what is behind such revolutionary changes can grow in such a short period of time. It is clear that the emergence of political movements such as Brexit, the alternative right in the United States and nationalist forces in Europe have occurred in a soil of growing inequality and an inability to deal with the losers of globalisation. But they have also been made possible because of growing educational gaps. In the wake of these increasing formation gaps, we see almost a flood of alternative facts, filter bubbles and heavily angled representations of reality. Mr President, I would like to In such a time, I believe that education is more important than ever. I would therefore like to devote my speech to highlighting the government's major public education efforts in the 2018 budget. Ever since the first parish libraries and ever since the first folk high schools saw the light of day in the mid-1900s, the formation of people has broken ground for the development of democracy and the liberation of man. Folkbildning has closed educational gaps and made it possible for generations of people to become politicians and take their place in our elected parishes. Folkbildning has linked the country together and made sure that there have been strong educational environments and strong educational environments far beyond the reach of universities and major cities. With its critical search for knowledge and education, peoples' education has always been an important counterweight to the superficial flows of ideas that try to paint the world in either black or white. And today, when authoritarian forces all over Europe and the world are again venting morning air, that struggle is more important than for a very long time. But peoples' education also contributes to other important issues. One such question is how more people can get jobs in the Swedish labour market. Mr President, I would like to Since the government took office, unemployment has fallen, and in Sweden we now have the highest employment rate that Eurostat has ever measured in an EU country. As far as employment for young people is concerned, we have to go back to 1992, before we had 500 % interest, in order to find equally good employment figures. More than 200 000 more people today have a job to go to when the government took office. So Sweden is doing well. But it's not going as well for all people. For people born in Sweden who have a complete upper secondary school education or even higher in their CV, it is today quite easy to get a job. However, for people with lower education – those with no complete upper secondary education degree – the labour market is considerably tougher. Education gaps cut right through society. This applies not only to the labour market, but also to social, health and political issues. It can be about the remaining life of a 30-year-old man; it is dramatically different depending on whether the man is highly educated or low-skilled. It could be health. It can be a matter of trust and trust in our social institutions and democracy itself. The formation gaps cut right through our society. When you dig deep into the statistics, it is often one thing you come up with: the importance of completing upper secondary education. Mr President, I would like to Public education is making significant efforts in all these areas. When I'm out visiting one of our many folk high schools around the country, I often meet participants, not infrequently on a general course, who say that they have tried and tried in the ordinary upper secondary school but that it has not worked. When they start folk high school, they feel they've found their way home. Here they train to succeed instead of, as before, training to fail and fail over and over again. Here they get the safe environment and the help that suits them and a pedagogy that allows them to develop at the pace that they can handle. I also meet many study associations who are making incredible efforts to strengthen the confidence of people who lack study experience and attract them back to school. And back to the school bench, if you are to be safe in the Swedish labour market today and do not have a complete upper secondary school education. Last but not least, Mr President, I also meet many adult teachers who testify that new arrivals who have attended the Swedish course from day one or who have participated in the Swedish course through folkbildning have got a really good head start in Swedish education within SFI. It is clear to me that the efforts of peoples' education play a major role, not only for education in Sweden but also to ensure that people are equipped for the tough labour market that is out there. In the 2018 budget bill, the government invests more than half a billion SEK in new fresh money on public education. It is the biggest investment in the formation of people on this side of the millennium. It is about the largest expansion of the folk high school in two decades with funds equivalent to 5 000 new places of study and also means that there is an increase in place compensation. It is a question of strengthening special education support to ensure that folk high school remains an important course of education for participants with disabilities. It is an effort that has been very welcome at the folk high schools that have made an extra contribution to people with disabilities. It is a whole new investment in outreach and motivating study associations to recruit for education and to strengthen particularly foreign-born women's chances of establishment. It is about strengthening the funds for the course Swedish from day one to reduce a little bit on the escalation of efforts when the Migration Agency's processing times are still far too long. It is a new initiative on study associations to strengthen parents' participation in their children's learning. These are therefore major and important efforts at folk high schools and student associations so that they will have even better opportunities to carry out the activities they have and to reach even more. Mr President, I would like to Dear child has many names. I have heard this budget proposal called both one and the other. It has been called a cultural budget, a skills supply budget, a pensioner's budget, a welfare budget and a children's budget. I would call it a public education budget. We have to go back to the great knowledge boost of the 1990s in order to find the same amount of investment in public education from the government. It is therefore with great pride that I put forward the proposals in the field of public education contained in the Government's autumn budget. At a time when it is becoming increasingly difficult to distinguish true from false, facts from rumours and knowledge-based opinions from anecdotal opinion, peoples' education stands as a lighthouse or a torch for knowledge and education. Whether it's about more people getting through high school, helping newcomers to their first job or being a broad cultural arena, peoples' education is a part of meeting society's challenges. With the government's budget, peoples' education is given even better opportunities to do this.
i-8862045225bf40d8-332	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister Anna Ekström, for taking part in today's debate! We agree on the importance of the formation of people for our society. Folkbildning, study associations and folk high schools offer education, education and also education. Folkbildning is one of the few opportunities for people with intellectual disabilities to educate and form themselves based on their own ability. This spring, an announcement came from the Riksdag to create the conditions for increased opportunities for post-secondary education for people with intellectual disabilities. It is about being able to study further even after upper secondary school, and it is not just about folk education and folk high schools, of course, but they are part of the solution. One example is the education at Mora Folkhögskola where you have a course in digital accessibility aimed at people with moderate retardation. Unfortunately, the funding is difficult, which is boring both for the people's college's activities and not least for the individuals. It will be the municipality that gets to take a large part of the responsibility, and then it will be difficult to reach outside the area and difficult for those who do not live in the municipality where the folk high school is located to have the opportunity to attend the education. You could call it a municipal arrest for someone with an intellectual disability. The Government mentioned reinforcement for people with disabilities. This is good, but what does the Government do more specifically to increase opportunities for people with intellectual disabilities to be able to study further at folk high school? I ask the question with reference, not least, to the announcement that all the parties in Parliament were behind this spring.
i-8862045225bf40d8-336	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the question, Per Lodenius, and thank you for the great commitment that the Center Party has shown to the education of the people! I am pleased to note that in its budget motion, the Center Party has supported all the efforts made by the government in the field of public education. I also note that in the question that is being asked here, I do not get any of the rather tedious throws that came in the main speech of the Moderates and that the education of the people would be a way of hiding unemployment. I find it difficult to imagine bigger and better efforts to strengthen people's opportunities to take the jobs that are now emerging in Sweden than to secure the opportunity for many, yes, for everyone, to really get that high school degree that is the key that opens the door to our rather tough labour market in Sweden. I am sure that I have behind me not only the Center Party but also very many of our employers who are looking for people with the right skills to take the many available vacancies. Here, peoples' education and, not least, folk high schools are a very important part of the effort that we must make together to ensure that there is a skilled workforce for the many jobs that are now emerging. The specific question asked by Per Lodenius is about people who have an extra long way to go to the coveted upper secondary school degree. There, the efforts made on special education support are of course very important, not least for the many folk high schools that have taken such a great responsibility to ensure that there is education also for people with functional variations. With regard to the completely unanimous announcement that the Parliament so wisely made, I must inform you that the government is currently preparing the question and working on how to come back and answer.
i-8862045225bf40d8-341	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I might have wanted a little clearer information about how you intend to come back to this, because it has been over six months. The Government is happy to come back to this, for there are many thoughts and thoughts about what could be done in this section. Formation is also a democracy issue, and it is the election year next year. It is important for everyone to be able to take part in free elections. We usually say that we in Sweden got universal suffrage in 1921, but I would say that it was 1989 when we removed the declaration of incapacitation and even people with intellectual disabilities got their right to vote. However, there are still many who have not been given the opportunity to vote. Then peoples' education is a very important part. How does the Government view it? I am thinking, among other things, of the fact that the Adult Education Association has a job called My Choice. Is there any part where the Government can see that it should make a clear effort that should be able to apply over time? It's not just about the election year, it's about a long time. I would like to hear a little bit about the state council's thoughts on that particular part of public education, but I would also like to hear even more clearly about the ideas about opportunities for those who have an intellectual disability to be able to study further at folk high school. We have the example of Mora Folkhögskola where today it is the municipality that decides whether you have the opportunity to study further or not.
i-8862045225bf40d8-345	Mr President, I would like to It is as I said in my previous reply that the question of how to deal with the announcement is still being prepared in the Government Office. This does not mean that we do nothing, but that we think about it. We will, of course, come back with a reply on this issue. As you know, we have an investigation that works with municipal adult education. That inquiry is currently considering questions that are quite close to the question that the honourable Member is asking. I also got a question now about how I see the possibilities for study associations to make contributions to the election movement that is now coming. I can say that the electoral movement will be very important, not least if you have an educational perspective. If you are concerned about a situation where half-truths and rumors easily get feet and easily become truths, a capacity for good source criticism is of course absolutely crucial. Sometimes you can wonder if our eleven-year-olds often have a greater knowledge of source criticism on the Internet than their parents have – at least if they have followed all the excellent documents available in our primary and secondary schools. I do not want to stand here in the speaker's chair and tell the study associations what work they should be doing. I think that public education should be free and voluntary. However, since I have visited the Adult Education Association several times over the past few weeks, I know that the efforts made there are much awaited by many participants, and also, from my point of view, very welcome to all those who care about people's education to contribute precisely to knowledge and education and that it should act freely and be voluntary.
i-8862045225bf40d8-349	Mr President, I would like to I will continue on the same theme, so there will be almost a melodic radio transition from the speech by Per Lodenius. It is precisely about people's education, the role of folkhögskolan and the role of study associations in terms of both people with different types of functional variations and coherence with other policy areas. When I travel around, like the Government, but to other folk high schools and study associations than the Government, it is reported at several folk high schools that in order to be able to meet this huge investment the government is making in the number of places so hastily – we liberals have expressed doubts about the speed of that increase – you will not bring in people with intellectual disabilities or major physical impairments and problems in the classrooms or in folk high schools. Instead, they will be met in their home environment or in their daily activities or equivalent. Then the idea is that it is not inclusive. The study associations also report that they have a long list of completed projects that they have announced they want to continue but that they have been refused to use the new money for the formation of these different groups. A third group is the persons who receive their personal assistance withdrawn. Many of them are in education and cannot participate in teaching in different ways when their assistants are no longer at their side. I would like to hear the Government develop its thoughts a little on how these large, increased investments can actually benefit those who need it most.
i-8862045225bf40d8-354	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, honourable Member, for the great commitment that the Liberals have historically shown to popular education in general and to folk high schools and study associations in particular. When I read through the Liberals' budget motion, I really raised my eyebrows at the Liberals saying no to so much of the government's efforts. But I was a little calmed when I read the bread text and saw that it was mainly about the Liberals being worried about the speed. But now I am even more concerned when I hear the question asked. Since it is about those participants who have a special need for support due to a disability, I am concerned that the Liberals have said no to the investment that is being made on special training support. It is made precisely for participants with disabilities and functional variations of different kinds to be able to participate in the folk high school. There is nothing in this initiative that makes it difficult for folk high schools to build capacity. I have to put a counter-question: how can the honourable Member justify that the Liberals do not support this very necessary and much-needed investment in specific training aid? We are clearly in full agreement that a large group of people have a great need for extra adjustments and extra support in order to reach the sought-after upper secondary school degree. And we obviously agree that folk high school is a good actor for that. How can the Liberals justify, with the attitude they have, that they do not immediately go on the government's proposal with regard to precisely the investment in disability within the framework of the People's College?
i-8862045225bf40d8-359	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. It's not very difficult for me to justify it. For it is difficult to get this money to come to those for whom it is intended. The idea is very good. But the folk high schools and study associations say that this is too much of an increase for too short a time to benefit these people. If you add it to the fact that these people also depend on their personal assistants and efforts via LSS to get to and from schools, you can see that there is no possibility of using the money. That's why we have doubts. We are not in any doubt about the actual investment in the people themselves. It should be quite clear that our commitment to these people is both genuine and genuine. We stand up for all reforms based on human rights and participation in our society. The question remains. Does the Minister not see that it will be a problem to implement it when the folk high schools, in order to benefit from the increased support at a rapid rate, choose not inclusive paths for these students? These people, of course, have the right to their education, but they also have the right to be included in the school's other teaching.
i-8862045225bf40d8-364	Mr President, I would like to I can definitely see that there are major problems for those people who have different types of functional variations and who really need extra support to be able to get the education needed in the Swedish labour market, for that matter also the education that everyone needs to be able to participate as active citizens in the social debate and build our common society. That's exactly why the government has made this big effort at folk high school. And that is precisely why the government in this effort is making an extra, special effort precisely on the special training support. That is also why we are doing something in this budget that we do not always manage to negotiate in budgets. It is not enough for us to increase the number of seats; we also ensure that the seats are properly remunerated. This compensation also increases with more places. Folkhögskolan's organisations, Folkbildningsrådet and study associations have warmly welcomed the initiative. And I'm proud that we've been able to go forward with it. The question is whether it is too fast, whether it is too high a requirement and whether we are too impatient when we make funds available to set up so many new training places. You can always discuss that. I am quite convinced that this is a very motivated initiative. We don't want to risk losing a single human being. For participants with disabilities who can participate in the important activities of folk high schools, every place is of value. I am very pleased and proud that we have managed to arrange for as many as 5,000 places, for the benefit of our disabled participants, but above all for the benefit of our society as a whole.
i-8862045225bf40d8-370	Mr President, I would like to In a previous speech, my colleague, and chairman of the committee, Olof Lavesson, presented the general cultural policy of the Moderates. I will now focus on Moderate sports policy. The sports movement is by far the largest popular movement, with about 3.2 million members. 650 000 non-profit leaders in our 20 000 associations are doing a wonderful job on a daily basis. We should all be proud of the combined power of sport in society. In addition, nine out of ten young people have been a member of a sports association at some point in their childhood. Today, however, more people die from obesity and obesity than from malnutrition and starvation, according to the World Health Organisation, WHO. The explanation can be traced to the wrong diet, but above all to the fact that both young and older people are becoming increasingly sedentary. Figures from Försäkringskassan also show that between 2011 and 2016 the number of sick leave due to mental illness increased by as much as 159 per cent. Regarding the cost of ill health, there are figures of SEK 70 billion per year, but there are also figures of up to SEK 120 billion per year. And the cost is rising dramatically. Sweden certainly has major challenges in terms of improving public health, but this also applies to integration. In both areas, the sports movement is invaluable in preventing both ill health and exclusion. For the Moderates, everyone's right to participate in culture and sport is among the most prioritised areas. Culture and sport offer ways into social contexts and provide structure, joy, healing and identity. Obstacles linked to social, cultural and religious backgrounds or medical limitations need to be demolished. We therefore propose in our committee motion that the Riksdag should support initiating a concerted effort between the state and sports movement against unhealthy body ideals and announce this to the government. This also applies to the proposal to create an independent, independent anti-doping organisation. For a long time, Wada has pointed out and pointed out, with great importance, that Sweden, together with Russia – which is not particularly flattering when talking about doping in these times – are the only nations that have not yet established an independent anti-doping organisation. Luxembourg still exists, but they have a so-called hang on Switzerland. It is about the credibility of Sweden and sport. We urgently need to start this very important work. We'd rather have done it last year. In addition, baptism is larger than just a sporting issue. It's gotten bigger outside of sport. It is now a serious social problem, not least because of the completely uncontrolled introduction of highly dangerous food supplements containing heavy metals, arsenic, doping substances and dangerous pharmaceutical substances. It's extremely serious. I have been pushing this issue for years, but there has been no government initiative so far. We're late. Wada requires a new organisation as early as 2019. Sweden must therefore start work. The Moderates also want to create an older lift, i.e. sports for the elderly. The government, within the framework of the Sports Lift, should create an older lift to stimulate associations to give older people the opportunity to engage in organised sport. We also want the associations to be educated even more about the perspective of children's rights. As you know, sport is doing amazing things that mean a lot to hundreds of thousands of children and young people. However, there are children who are suffering ill and who are subjected to unreasonable demands, in some cases pure abuse. To prevent this, the sports movement needs to be educated even more in children's rights. The evaluation carried out by the committee this year also showed that the ignorance of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the perspective of children's rights is evident. The Swedish Parliament has decided that only associations operating a work should receive funds from the Swedish Sports Federation from a child rights perspective. The follow-up should be improved and the evaluation team also found that a review of state funds for sport was needed. In addition, the Government should improve its reporting to the Riksdag regarding the outcome of the Government's efforts. The Swedish National Audit Office pointed out the same already in 2004. It was also an announcement from the committee in 2005. However, the problem remains, and the situation needs to be improved here and now. Sport at Fritis is another proposal that the Moderates propose in their committee motion. The Moderates want to design a sports policy that reaches all children and young people. We therefore propose an investment in sports on fritis where the Swedish School Sports Association is commissioned to design a project in which sport becomes an even clearer part of leisure centres' activities. At the same time, we can see that children of parents with support do not participate in leisure activities to the same extent as other children. The Alliance government therefore introduced a leisure allowance for children of parents who have been supported for more than six months. After the application, it gave the possibility of an additional contribution of a maximum of 3 000 SEK for leisure activities. Here we want to see the reintroduction of leisure money. Unfortunately, leisure money was abolished by the current government. In order to allow more children to participate in activities, leisure allowances should be reintroduced. The committee's evaluation of state funds for sport showed, among other things, that children in socio-economically weak families are doing less sport. That is a very important signal to take into account. I would like to conclude my speech in the same way as I have closed several of my previous budget debates: I would like to thank all those who are in any way active in the sports movement. These are invaluable efforts for the individual but also for society at large. You are all the everyday heroes of the Moderates and we see you doing this work with all clarity!
i-8862045225bf40d8-390	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by agreeing with Gunilla Carlsson's request made earlier in the debate. A key part of the Swedish model is a free and strong association life with strong popular movements and strong public education, many different activities and expressions, new and old. Not least, civil society is made up of people from different backgrounds who meet, do things and grow together. Jointly across the generations is commitment and organization to bring about change. This is the summary of the report People in Business from Ersta Sköndal University College: A strong association life with extensive popular participation has been a central part of the history of modern Sweden and other Nordic countries and has thereby contributed to a successful social model. This model has been highlighted, not least in recent years, as an example, from a human, democratic and economic point of view. Mr President, I would like to During the time of the alliance government, another model was tested with a fundamental political idea: reduced taxes, mostly for those with the thickest wallets. We know the result of this today and it spells budget deficits, high unemployment and growing gaps. Since 2014, the Red Green Government has broken with this policy and set a new course for Sweden. Instead, today we are seeing investment in community, security and more equality. Deficiencies have been turned into surpluses, and we can therefore debate here today a historically increased cultural budget with proposals and initiatives that strengthen sport, peoples' education and large sections of civil society. Against this is the opposition's proposal which, taken together, would mean a reduction in ambition in the billions. It is particularly hard on peoples' education and diversity. However, despite the fact that many people have been better off in our country, we have great challenges ahead of us. For a long time the gaps in society have grown. We know that class, education, background, place of residence, gender, sexuality and accessibility affect our participation in cultural, sports, association and social life. For us Social Democrats, people's participation and community are the starting point for how we build democracy and trust in society. And that is why union life must be open to all. Fees must be low and availability high. That is why we are committed to a policy for more committed, more culture, sport and movement. Mr President, I would like to It has been said that Sweden is a study circle democracy and that it is through study circles that people have trained themselves in analytical ability so that they can make decisions and work together without giving up their ideals and dreams. Student associations and folk high schools gathered 1 million participants in 2016. The activities of study associations alone involved 680 000 people in study circles and more than 20 million participants, but not uniquely, in cultural programmes. In recent years, student associations and folk high schools have made enormous efforts to give asylum seekers and newcomers a good way into society. Through Swedish from day one, 80 000 unique participants have participated in the business in 2016. Folkbildning takes place throughout the country, from cities and suburbs to commuting municipalities and in sparsely populated areas. The role of public education as an arena for culture and creation cannot be underestimated. The largest proportion of the circles organised last year concerned the humanities, art and culture. Public education gives people the tools to participate fully in democracy. In study circles and other activities, people from different backgrounds meet and develop society and themselves. We Social Democrats welcome the efforts made on peoples' education and, in particular, on the study associations. This was explained earlier in the debate in an exemplary way by Minister Anna Ekström. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to mention a few words about sport. Sport brings together millions of practitioners and thousands of leaders. It's our biggest popular movement. Almost everyone has their own experience of sports and movement. Sport has a broad task. It will raise great leaders and the next generation of sports stars. But it is also crucial to inspire and engage more people into movement and a healthy life – a lifelong sport. Sport also has a social function and it is particularly important that we reach more groups that do not participate today. Therefore, sport has been given the resources to develop its activities and recruit leaders in vulnerable residential areas. Sports should be for everyone. During its term of office, the Government has developed the dialogue with the sports movement, paying particular attention to the work of equal sport, sport for disabled people and activities for children and young people. To meet growing needs and new challenges and to make sport more accessible, we want to introduce lower fees. During the period, support for sport has increased by SEK 227 million. We Social Democrats defend the sports movement in both words and deeds. But health promotion also takes place outside sport. During the period, state funding for outdoor policy has increased and resulted in large investments in children, young people, health, diversity and integration efforts. Mr President, I would like to Every day – 365 days a year, almost 24 hours a day – a fantastic activity and great efforts are being made in Sweden's association life. I have described here how a strong association life contributes to the development of our country. In conclusion, politics has an important responsibility. We will provide long-term conditions for this commitment. The area of expenditure is not the biggest in the budget, but I dare say that the profits are impossible to estimate. During this term of office, civil society has made enormous efforts and demonstrated the importance of strong and functioning associations. Through self-organization, in meetings between people from different backgrounds, from activism, in the broad engagement, we build on a tradition. This is how trust and community in society are strengthened, so we grow together and then we develop our model, the Swedish model.
i-8862045225bf40d8-411	Mr President, I would like to Mattias Vepsä describes the government's major investment in sport. But he forgets to mention reforms that hit the sports movement hard. The government has announced that it wants to introduce a flight tax. We know that sports teams in many different sports travel a lot. They have also been loud about the fact that this will hit their economies extremely hard. In some contexts we are talking about several hundred thousand SEK in increased travel expenses, and the government has also announced that it wants to increase petrol and diesel taxes. I live in Jämtland County. In Hammerdal 70 km outside Östersund, the small association has been closed down, but many of the athletes, not least children and young people, still want to continue with the sport and therefore go 14 mil per training session. It is clear that it strikes very hard on individual families who want to continue with sport. In 2014, the Alliance government introduced leisure money, which was also an opportunity for socio-economically weak groups to receive a contribution. It was about SEK 3,000 a year for those parents who had been on support for at least six months. It is clear that the allowance was important for these families. We may have the same amount in the budget, but you take with one hand and give with the other. It becomes counterproductive, and my question to Mattias Vepsä is: Why is the government counterproductive of children's and young people's opportunities for sports through tax increases?
i-8862045225bf40d8-416	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. First of all, we can say that the climate issue is the great question of our time, even if it is against saying so. But it's so crucial for us to handle. The government's proposal on air tax is one way of overcoming the enormous emissions that we are seeing and ensuring that our children and young people actually have a planet to inherit from us. The generational agreement on the climate issue is extremely important to care for. When it comes to Moderate bets, I think you've been looking at congestion charges for trains. I am not sure whether this would be a better way to tackle the major challenges we are facing in that policy area. Here, however, we shall talk politics and sport. The government has been investing for a long time in children and young people. We see that an effect of the Alliance's policy is increased divides, which hit people who live in our big cities and medium-sized cities, but also in smaller cities. I grew up in Laholm, and even there we have areas that have fallen behind. This is why efforts on children and young people in socio-economically weak areas are particularly important. I think it is good that we have a consensus on the field of expenditure in the field of sport. I very much welcome it, because sport is important. The efforts we make are important to overcome ill health among children, and through lower fees, increased accessibility and investment in leaders in our sports movements, we make sport more accessible to those who need it most – our children and young people.
i-8862045225bf40d8-420	Mr President, I would like to Mattias Mattias's words don't stick together. He talks about participation, community and the importance of more sport. At the same time, the sports movement is being discouraged and people should be able to practise sport. After an announcement, the Alliance finally gained 100 sports hours more in school. There was great opposition to this, and I had many debates against the Minister for Sport who said no, we are not going to introduce this. But with the help of the announcement, it was done. So the policies of the Social Democrats do not stick together in this regard. The Committee on Culture's evaluation of the State's sports policy objectives showed precisely that it is socio-economically weak families who are prevented from playing sports because the economy does not allow it. I have mentioned leisure money as an important part. We see that the public health challenges are greater than ever. I mentioned in my speech that mental illness has increased by 159 % and that today we are dying more of obesity and obesity than of malnutrition. This costs SEK 70 billion a year. Sport is the key to community, joy, public health and so on. It is therefore unbelievable that the government chooses to pursue a policy that is counterproductive and where the right hand does not know what the left is doing. I have to ask again: how does Mattias Vepsä justify this counterproductive policy?
i-8862045225bf40d8-425	Mr President, I would like to The challenges we see are greater than only within the sports movement and affect us all in all parts of society. It is about the widening divides between people, and it is crucial that we get to grips with it. One of the driving forces behind the widening gap is the economy. It is about people who have a tough challenge being able to move from unemployment to jobs and from support to work. It is about giving those who have the lowest level of knowledge and are short-skilled an opportunity to quickly change, get an education and get into work. We have a policy for this. As has emerged earlier in the debate, not only do we have reforms in the field of cultural policy, but there are broad reforms to lift people and Sweden, aiming for greater equality between people. In the field of sport, the government has increased its dialogue with the sports movement during this period. We have sat down and discussed the objectives that apply to the entire policy area, and this is precisely about equal sports life, investment in leadership and more resources to reach those who are farthest away. We have also, as I presented in my speech, spent over SEK 270 million over the period to ensure that we can hold back fees and make sport more accessible in precisely the vulnerable areas and groups mentioned by Mrs Quicklund in her question. I do not think we are in favour of a policy that takes with one hand to give with the other. We are pursuing a policy that wants to combat inequalities, which is the fundamental reason why people have different access to culture, sport and associations.
