i-afc8dd617bec69fc-10	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating a motion report on labour law, AU7. I would like to begin by calling for our moderate reservations 3 and 16 to be accepted, but we naturally support the rest of us as well. Sweden is one of the countries in Europe with the highest employment rate for natives. At the same time, the difference between domestic and foreign born is great. We have the biggest gap in the countries of the European Union – a difference of 15 percentage points. The Swedish labour market is increasingly disintegrating, which is likely to get worse in the coming years. At the moment, foreign born is the largest group in unemployment, i.e. more than 50%. The vast majority come from countries outside Europe. It is also this group that is growing fastest in terms of unemployment. The strong Swedish labour market and economic boom are therefore not enough for the large number of newcomers to get jobs at a sufficient pace. This is one of the biggest challenges or, for that matter, the biggest problem in the future. Unfortunately, it can be a real blow when the recession strikes, because after the boom, recession always comes. We have a weak government with few proposals for effective reforms. The new exclusion that we now see emerging, where you never get your first job and do not get into the labour market at all, is very worrying. High costs for hiring and high taxes on jobs have long been seen as obstacles, but now we also see that the knowledge requirements are growing and that the so-called simple jobs, i.e. jobs without high education requirements, are decreasing at the same rate. People who are the furthest away from a job will suffer the most. Up to 1 million people can be out of their own way in a couple of years, and I think we all find that unacceptable. So it will require, and will require, strong reforms to get people to work. We do not see the government making any such proposals. There are many promised measures that would have given jobs, but it is amazing that so few are coming to work right now, with a workers' government. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates have many suggestions on how to stimulate the labour market and, above all, how to equip ourselves for future challenges and problems. One such powerful measure is that we want to triple the RUT deduction, which was one of the best reforms during the time of the alliance government. There, many got their first job. Learning the job at work is another model that we believe in. That is why we want to introduce, among other things, a new form of employment that we call first job employment. Our alliance friends have similar suggestions. It is a temporary reform that includes some training alongside the job, and it complements the old YA jobs. But these jobs are more adapted to the individual and the workplace and can also be suitable for older workers or people who have a different professional background or lack knowledge of the Swedish labour market. All employers, including smaller companies, organisations and others, should be able to employ in this new form, because collective agreements are not required. We want as many as possible to dare try people from other cultures and with other experiences or people who have never had a job. We believe that it takes longer for a probationary period than the current six months. We want to extend it to 12 months so that more workers can prove their worth. We also think that many more people should have the chance to start their own business. Lowering the thresholds into the labour market is important but also removing the barriers to starting and running businesses in Sweden. Many people want and should be given the opportunity to change and become entrepreneurs, even if they already have a job. That is why we are proposing an extension of the right to leave to start a business, from the six months currently in force to twelve months. It is a great personal commitment to start a business and often demanding in the start-up phase, and we therefore believe that it is important to have a longer probationary period, in order to get more companies in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Today we are seeing an avalanche increase in the number of individuals requesting extracts from the load register. This register is kept by the Police Authority and contains information on offences, penalties in the form of penalties, restraining orders, etc. Too many employers have begun to demand a written extract from the criminal record to hire people. We believe that all people have the right to get a second chance after a mistake and not to be shut out of work. The Alliance government investigated this, and we felt it was important for legislators to ensure that employers do not routinely request certificates and thus make it more difficult to get a job and become involved in society. We hope that the government will come back with a proposal on this. Then I cannot help commenting on what was said in this House before the 2014 elections. There were quite a few requirements in labour law for employers in terms of increased labour law in various areas. Among other things, it was the right to full-time. We go to elections to promise the right to full-time, said Löfven 2014. On their website, the Social Democrats write: a right to full-time work is central to the entire labour market. We want the social partners to agree on similar provisions. We are also prepared to consider legislation on the right to full-time employment if such a development does not take place during the next parliamentary term. ..................................................... I wonder: how has this turned out? Is there a bill? Is everyone entitled to full-time? I haven't heard any of those notes from the government. At all, we can see that it is quite calm when it comes to changes in labour law. We do not see any proposals in this House, but the government seems to be satisfied with the current system. I think this is worth noting, a day like this.
i-F2C58TE828UrGozTyXSXDW	Mr President, I would like to Today we are dealing with AU7 Employment Law, with exercise requests from the general exercise time. We Swedish democrats, of course, support all our reservations and our two specific opinions, but for time to come, I only call for reservations 4 and 10. If we start with the specific opinions, one relates to the lack of the situation in the construction sector, where the main contractor's responsibility is currently enshrined in construction contracts but does not apply to all construction sites. We think it goes without saying that all workers, including those posted to the Swedish labour market, should have the same protection in this respect. However, as the report also states, an investigation is under way at the Ministry of Labour. We therefore reject the motion but look forward to a government bill in the near future. Here the situation is that the European Commission has presented a proposal for a reform of the Posting of Workers Directive which allows the main contractor's responsibility to include posted workers. It's welcome. The second specific opinion concerns the right to full-time work, in which an individual exerciser has highlighted a legislative proposal. The Swedish Democrats have instead put in their budget the financial resources needed to enable those who want to go up from part-time to full-time in the public sector to do so. This is also our proposal, and we therefore have a special opinion in this case. Mr President, I would like to We have a proposal to reform the rules on derogations in the rules of rotation. This is mentioned in reservation 10. In the Swedish Democrats, we are trying to adopt a pragmatic approach to this issue. We do not believe that the security provided by the rotation rules for workers should be completely abolished. At the same time, however, we want to facilitate business and stimulate growth and employment by increasing the number of derogations from the rotation rules from two to five. We also believe that increased exemptions in the rotation rules would reduce the use of so-called planing, which means that companies sometimes, precisely in order to retain key staff, choose to partially cut the working hours of a large group of employees. Now there is also the call for legislation on planing. That is something that we think would be unfortunate, as there can sometimes be specific and justified reasons for this. On the other hand, we see, of course, that this is best done through negotiations between the social partners, much as happened during the 2008-2009 financial crisis, when there were a number of workplaces. Mr President, I would like to In our reservation 17 on the extension of the right to leave, we have included several different proposals on the right to temporarily take leave from work. Today, there is so-called start-up allowance, which is mainly aimed at the unemployed. It is a measure that has fairly good results. However, we believe that those with the greatest potential to start and run the innovative and high-tech companies of the future sometimes, but probably not always, are included in the category of job seekers. In many cases, these people are already working. If you have a firm job and carry a business idea, however, the step can be quite big to dare to quit and start a business. We want the government to review the regulations and make a proposal, so that even employees can get something that corresponds to the start-up-own grant to try starting a business. We also want the government to review the rules on the right to leave to pursue business activities and extend it from today's six months to nine months for about the same reason. Mr President, I would like to Today, parents have the right to work part-time – down to 75% – until the child is eight years old. In order to increase family freedom and flexibility and to overcome the increase in sick leave rates in that group, we propose that the government return with a proposal to make a change so that parents have the right to go down to part-time of 50% instead of 75% until the child is eight years old. Many families are familiar with the problems that arise when preschool closes for a number of weeks. These weeks should then be covered by the parents' holiday weeks. Different preschools keep closed different weeks. Some localities keep closed for a couple of weeks, while in other localities it's about up to six weeks. Emergency schools and temporary solutions often exist. But this is not for everyone, especially not all children. That is why the Swedish Democrats want to establish what we call preschool days, i.e. a statutory right to leave of absence five days a year when preschool is closed in summer. It should of course be voluntary to use these preschool days. This is addressed to parents with children in preschool. Mr President, I would like to Posting on the Swedish labour market, in accordance with the Posting of Workers Act and the Posting of Workers Directive, is currently not working satisfactorily. There is today a reform process in both the Government Office and the Riksdag, and tomorrow we will begin the preparation of a report here in Parliament. We Swedish democrats have expressed our support for the Government's proposal on changes to posting rules. Within the EU, the Commission has also proposed changes to the Posting of Workers Directive. These are changes that we Swedish democrats mainly support. However, we want to go further. We want monthly reporting, reporting obligations and limit the maximum time to three months for seconded staff. But that's another question. Mr President, I would like to There is much talk today about so-called simpler jobs and lower wages for these so-called simpler jobs. Many have found it difficult – not least the Minister for Labour, who unfortunately is not here today – to define what a simple job is. Sometimes you hear hair-traveling descriptions about what these simpler jobs should consist of. Among other things, various cleaning jobs are highlighted in the debate. A modern cleaning job in Sweden today can consist of, for example, driving, service and maintaining relatively advanced cleaning machines of different types. A modern cleaning job can involve performing cleaning tasks in medical facilities with very high demands on knowledge of hygiene and sanitation. It's not a simple job. It's both hard and important jobs. The debate often says that there are few simple jobs in Sweden – jobs that can be done by job seekers with low or very low levels of education. The truth is that this type of job is largely rationalized in Sweden. They don't exist anymore. It is more than naive to believe that employers are to a large extent to deviate from the automation, rationalisation and measures they have taken to replace the so-called simple jobs. I'm sorry, but I just don't believe in the idea. What must be the size of these tax subsidies? How low must these thresholds be, that is, how low must these salaries be – because that is what thresholds mean – for you to manage to turn the clock back? For example, we can study entry-level jobs, where the number of interested companies is relatively limited despite up to 80 per cent of the subsidy rate. Thus, even for companies that low costs, interest has not been overwhelming. And in many cases, it has not even been so-called simpler jobs. How can a so-called simple job that is now rationalized be waged and taxed, so that the employee not only manages his own and his family's livelihood but also contributes to his or her own and family's social welfare, school, care and pension? How can you get a pension through that kind of salary? So there are many questions. What is needed instead is increased training efforts combined with a new form of employment – a real apprenticeship. This is a modern apprenticeship system based on theoretical nuclear materials, such as mathematics, Swedish and English, which you study at school for example two three days a week, and then you practice a profession in an actual workplace for the rest of the week. It is thus a form of employment that combines studies at upper secondary school or komvux for two or three days a week with learning a profession as an apprentice during the rest of the week's working time. It is a form of employment that should be open to both upper secondary school students and to the more than 600 000 adults who currently lack upper secondary school education. It shall be open to both foreign and domestic born. It is an apprenticeship in which, for up to three years in an employment relationship similar to a probationary period, you will learn a real profession that is in demand in the labour market. For this to succeed, incentives for both the company and the apprentice must also be strengthened. The employer must be completely exempt from paying employers' contributions, and the employer receives a reasonable remuneration for the training element. Apprenticeship is treated as a probationary position and a minimum wage per month is laid down and is also protected, i.e. if the employee has other income or support, these are not withdrawn, precisely to provide this incentive. A person who has no upper secondary school degree and receives subsistence support thus has very strong incentives to complete his or her degree during apprenticeship training with a company. In this way we equip the very weak in the Swedish labour market for the future labour market, with future opportunities for self-sufficiency and to contribute to their own social welfare, school, health care and care for themselves and their family. By learning a profession and being needed in a profession that is really in demand on the Swedish labour market, people get away from dependency and exclusion. Mr President, I would like to Otherwise, despite what I have said before, I think it is good that LO is now opening up to talks about the lowest wages in Sweden. Wages and salaries on the Swedish labour market are to be managed mainly by the parties through negotiations.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-53	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Center Party's reservation 5. Today, the Swedish labour market is largely characterised by division, especially between those who have stable and secure employment and those who are outside and whose only possibility is often limited or precarious employment. Strict employment protection leads to higher unemployment among groups with difficulties in establishing themselves, while at the same time leading to lock-in effects for people who have a job. Many people, because of the strict employment protection we have in Sweden and because it also leads to a perceived security, remain at jobs that they do not like. The squeezed wage structure in Sweden is also a major problem that leads to higher thresholds to enter the labour market for those who are farthest from it. This is a major challenge in Sweden. These problems are not new – they have existed for a long time – but they have become even more up-to-date in connection with the refugee situation we have had in Sweden and that we will now get even more people into the labour market. Reforms are needed to solve the challenges we face, and on behalf of the Center Party we see a number of elements in this that we want to reform. Firstly, security must be increased. Today, some jobs are without security, while others are locked up in jobs they do not enjoy. It is the result of a rigid labour market that is redistributing insecurity to those who are all the weakest in the labour market. The situation is unfair, and greater and fairer security is needed. One must be given the opportunity to create one's own security, and this is, above all, about the possibility of further training in the meantime. In the future labour market, the most important thing is that you have security through your skills and that you are attractive in the labour market. Secondly, labour market regulations need to be adapted to the fact that small and growing companies are the job creators in Sweden. They're the ones who hire, and they're the ones who create four out of five new jobs. Large companies remain important and will remain so for a long time, but small businesses play an increasingly important role. Then reforms must also be introduced to meet them. It is extremely important that labour market reforms and labour law, which we are debating today, take account of small and growing companies. Current rules are largely based on a time when it was the large companies that employed and where the large companies characterized the Swedish labour market. But this is no longer the case in Sweden, which is why we need to renew Swedish labour law and the Swedish model to meet the challenges we face. Otherwise, we risk losing international competitiveness, which in the long run becomes a major problem and growth barrier for Sweden. We must make it cheaper and easier for smaller companies to hire. Thirdly, the thresholds for the first job must be lowered. It is a fact that three out of four of the unemployed belong to the most vulnerable group and are in the most difficult position in today's labour market. The current system of high thresholds in terms of both labour law and entry wages creates challenges and even greater difficulties for these people to enter. Of course, training efforts are needed, but better opportunities are also needed to get a first job. If you get your first job, you have the opportunity to get your second job and get references and the network of contacts required in the labour market. It is extremely important for public finances that more people work and pay taxes, and that is important for the cohesion of society. Above all, however, it is important for the individual to have his or her own livelihood and be able to contribute. The Center Party presents proposals for, among other things, entry jobs, where we want the parties to take responsibility. Fortunately, LO's recent announcement may hope that the parties will be able to take on the necessary responsibilities and actually look at the groups that are outside the labour market and risk doing so for a long time to come unless one looks at the possibility of lowering the thresholds for entering the labour market. We in the Center Party have also said that we are prepared to reduce employers' contributions for companies in relation to this group, but we are also prepared to reduce income taxes so that it pays more to work for those who are farthest from the labour market. It is extremely important to make the labour market accessible to all and to give people the opportunity to get a first job. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party has for a long time proposed a series of changes and improvements to the Swedish model. This applies, for example, to the rules of rotation, which we are dealing with today. It is about the principle of proportionality and the right to re-employment. We will continue to present proposals to get a renewal of the Swedish model, but more attention needs to be paid to the labour market and labour law issues. We have therefore also said that we want to introduce a labour market commission that is independent and impartial, with experts in the field, to develop the model of tomorrow's labour market. The aim is to propose fast and reasonable rules that take into account the needs of enterprises for flexibility and skills provision, the need for security and transition of employees and the need for the unemployed to be able to find a job at all. We are seeing the great challenge of the dualisation of the labour market today – that those who have a job and secure employment and those who do not have it are increasingly apart. That is why we need to make changes in regulations, taxes and more to break the division, so that everyone has a chance to get their first job. If you get your first job, you get a foot, and you get the necessary network of contacts in the labour market. It is therefore necessary for us to present reforms.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-65	Mr President, I would like to Every day several hundred thousand people in Sweden go to work with a feeling of anxiety and uncertainty. A small group does this because there are problems in the workplace – perhaps harassment or insufficient management that has grown into an occupational health and safety problem. Some people are concerned that time is not enough and demands are at the same time being screwed up, or that resources are not keeping pace while needs are growing – while at the same time having a human responsibility relationship that creates an internal pressure. This is the case not least for many of those who every day provide welfare services in our society, such as teachers, nurses, nurses, social secretaries and preschool educators. These are serious societal problems that need to be addressed in several ways, not least by taxing according to viability, by adapting public income and expenditure to the needs of the common welfare and by making tax resources available to the very activities for which they are intended rather than leaking off to private profits. However, the trend towards greater insecurity in parts of the labour market does not only apply to the welfare sector; many of the biggest problems exist in the private services sector – in hotels and restaurants, in shops and in warehouse management, to name a few. It is therefore about large groups in Sweden, and they are all over the country. However, there are more women than men and more in LO professions than in other occupations. It is people who thus find it difficult to know whether they can pay the rent next month and who find it difficult to take a loan at the bank or plan some kind of vacation. We have become familiar with the concept of a text message job in the Swedish labour market. It's a kind of up-to-date equivalent of day pay. People sleep anxiously, with their phone under the pillow, because they don't want to miss the message from the employer that decides whether or not to work that day. It is a flexibility for the employer that deprives the employee of the opportunity to be flexible – or spontaneous, or well-planned – in their everyday lives. Recently we were reminded of this once again, when LO came up with its report Forms of employment and working hours 2017. Over a long period of time, the number of precarious jobs has increased, but above all it is the composition of precarious jobs that has changed. What constitutes the clearest increase is the category known as, if necessary/ per hour, those who are particularly exposed to uncertainty in terms of working hours and thus income and livelihood. That curve makes a clear leap upward in connection with the introduction of the general fixed-term employment form by the former right-wing government. It is, of course, perfectly logical, for the general fixed-term just admits that all sorts of ingenuity can be demonstrated by the employer – at the employee's expense. Let me be clear here: of course it may be necessary and will require flexible employment relationships on the Swedish labour market, i.e. departure from the general rule on permanent employment. These may include probationary employment, substitute employment or other types of fixed-term employment that the parties can regulate in collective agreements. But the problem with general fixed-term employment is that it deprives the employer of the responsibility to justify – say – why it does not hire until further notice. What this does is to open up to exactly what the Employment Protection Act is supposed to prevent, namely arbitrariness. In the past, it could perhaps be argued by the right and employers that that did not matter very much, but year by year we have seen results emerge: this is a legal regulation that is used to organise the most precarious jobs. It is important to point out again that this is something that primarily affects women. It is a pattern that exists among both workers and officials, but it is generally more common among workers to have fixed-term employment. Here we have a concrete social problem that the legislators – this Assembly – should address. General fixed-term contracts should be removed from the LAS and replaced by objective criteria for the eligibility of fixed-term contracts. Unfortunately, the Left Party is alone in supporting this proposal in today's report, which I feel is a pity. Mr President, I would like to There are also several other concrete labour law problems that we need to understand and face if we value a modern and well-functioning working life. We refer to several of them in the Left Party Party Movement A stronger labour law for greater security in employment and in a number of other V-motions. I'm going to bring up a few here today. One such question is about what has come to be called planing. It is a question of employers having the option of reducing the employment rate of workers, on the grounds of job shortages, rather than starting a dismissal process. This is something that several trade unions, including the Hotel and the Estaurang Union, Fastighets och Handels, have recently highlighted as a growing problem in their contractual areas. It is a major problem when, in the worst case, employees lose the opportunity to make a living, while at the same time they do not get the protection provided by LAS upon dismissal. Once again, this will be a step towards arbitrariness at the employee's expense. The issue has been raised further since the Labour Court judgment of 30 November 2016 gave an employer a right against the Trade Union. The Labour Court ruled, one might say, that employees who have seen their full-time jobs converted into part-time jobs could not be considered protected by LAS. This is a hole in LAS, and it must be clogged. This was the view of the LO Congress in 2016, and the Left Party believes so. Unfortunately, today we are also alone in supporting such a demand. I believe that this is a reason for many, not least for trade unionists, to ask why a proposal on this table does not receive support from – not least – the Social Democrats and the Green Party. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to raise the issue of the situation of staff members. The hiring of workers is fundamentally problematic, as it makes the employment relationship unclear. Now there is an EU directive that makes it impossible for us to decide entirely how we want it to be in Sweden on this issue. We would like to see this directive amended in order to regain the freedom of action with regard to the rules of the Swedish labour market. There are still a lot of things we can do. For example, it should be self-evident that renting is only used for specific problems that need to be resolved temporarily. Today, there are employers who make hiring part of their strategy to meet permanent labour needs. In any case, we should be able to agree on and regulate this, in line with how it was intended in the early 1990s, or at least in line with how it described the purpose of the law. But here, too, the Left Party is alone – of course, not in the workplace and in the social debate, but the party is alone in this House, which is regrettable. Mr President, I would like to The entry of the right-wing parties into labour law debates is almost always – as we have also heard today – that decent working conditions and secure employment conditions are being put in opposition to lower unemployment and higher employment. In this respect, the fact resistance of the right is not a new or imported phenomenon, but a very old one. It is clear and well established that it is not the countries in the world where people are most insecure at work and who are most left at the discretion of the employer who have the highest level of employment and the lowest level of unemployment. We can see historically in Sweden that progress towards full employment went hand in hand with stronger labour law legislation and a greater role for collective agreements and for the trade union activity around them. We also see today that developments in the economy in general, and in the labour market in particular, are traditionally better in Sweden when we do not have to carry around a right-wing government. The last right-wing government intervened directly and indirectly in Swedish labour law to promote the employers' side. This was nothing that gave more jobs – on the other hand, it created greater gaps between people in the labour market, in line with what I was talking about earlier. What is often striking is the active and intense lack of interest shown by the right wing and the management organisations in the daily lives of hundreds of thousands of people – the contempt shown against the knowledge of actual conditions in the labour market and the knowledge of what insecurity and discretion mean in terms of physical and mental stress. These are costs – costs that come later. These are costs that may not have to appear in an employer's profit and loss account but that are visible in lots of orange envelopes and that get into the body of a lot of people. You know what that is? That is what is called the class society. This is one of the ways in which it is reproduced and recreated. Mr President, I would like to The debate on labour law is also, for this reason, much more than the drafting of the Employment Protection Act or the Co-determination Act. Most people spend a significant part of their waking adult life at work. You sell your labor and you get paid in the form of money. It also defines much of its social position, opportunities and freedoms, prosperity and well-being. It therefore plays a crucial role for every society, of course, what conditions exist in and around the work, what expressed and unspoken expectations there are of the one in a job, what power relations are established and what opportunities there are to change them. In a society that desires and is characterized by the individual's independence and by respectful human relations, it is not acceptable for the worker to be treated arbitrarily. It is clear that a far-reaching social and political problem is posed by the fact that a capricious and self-absorbed boss has the right to shout: You On the other hand, a balanced framework for the dynamics of the labour market can make people's abilities better used. Safe people dare more in words and deeds. Those who don't have to worry all the time can constructively demonstrate shortcomings and dangers, deepen their knowledge and skills, cooperate better with others and – not least – better get home from work as a whole person and as a citizen of society. Mr President, I would like to The issues that I have raised in this debate – and many more that we raise in the Left Party's motions – are those that the trade unions are constantly and daily wrestling with and taking responsibility for in contract movements and in the workplace. This is good, and it is a strength with the flexible Swedish model. But many are also fighting uphill because the legislation has not kept up. I believe that these problems need to be addressed and addressed. The possibility exists – not least for the red-green government parties – to support proposals that address the problems of general fixed-term employment, the abuse of staffing positions and so-called planing. I support all the reservations of the Left Party today. For time winning, however, I only ask for reservations 8 and 19.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-95	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, well, I'll tell you what. That was quite a salve to the government. I wonder how things are actually going for the Left Party in cooperation with the government. There were a lot of demands that came out here that have not been met. It must be incredibly negative and difficult for the Left Party. In my speech, I mentioned the right to full-time employment. Why is there no interest in the government if you're so hard on it? How do you really work, if it is the case that both the union and the Left Party are in complete agreement that there should be legislation? I would say that there is a lot of rhetoric but a little workshop in relation to the Left Party. At least that's what it sounds like when you listen. What powerful demands have you really made? How do you threaten? What does the government say to you? Does the government say you're not interested? They say you'll be back in a few years? How's that sound? The problem of precarious employment, raised by Ali Esbati in his speech, is the worst in the public sector. As far as I know, the Left Party is involved and both governs and supports the government in municipalities and county councils where there are lots of women with precarious employment. I don't think it's called texting work; I don't think they sleep with the phone under the pillow. But a lot of people are called in and sometimes treated quite badly, we might think--I can agree with that. But why is there no improvement? We have a red-green government! What's going on? What's the Left Party doing? There is also much going away, according to the Left Party. What have you done to make a change? We do not see a single proposal in this House. We do not see a single bill in the area of labour law – nothing is happening.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-102	Mr President, I would like to That was a lot of funny questions. Katarina Brännström asks why the Left Party has not put forward any proposals. This is because it is the government that is putting forward proposals. We have tabled motions – these are the ones that are being discussed today, and those proposals are huge. That was the answer to that question. Katarina Brännström also noted an ointment against the government parties. It is true that we have criticism in this area, but I do not know how selective Katarina Brännström listened to my speech. Most of it was directed towards the right, which is as it should be, because that is where the worst proposals come from. But I would certainly wish that the government could do more on these issues. Then Katarina Brännström asks how the Left Party is doing. I think it's going pretty well, at least if you compare it to the Moderates. But it is not the main discussion today, but the discussion is about what we should do on these labour law issues. And I thought Katarina Brännström knew that labour law legislation was not put forward in the budget bill, but it is an issue that is being dealt with by what we are doing today. Katarina Brännström asks what we are doing. This is exactly what we do: We exercise and drive opinion, and a lot of people around Sweden work in the same way, that is to try to push forward the position to get a change in legislation as well. As I said, this is something that trade unions take great responsibility for. But it is also necessary for more to be done on the part of the Riksdag. However, I do not think that those who think the government should do more believe that Brännström Katarina's party colleagues would do more on these issues, because Katarina Brännström is against these proposals.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-106	Mr President, I would like to I listened very well to what Ali said. I have also read Alis's article in the LO paper Work today. It was about the same things that were repeated here, and I really listened. These aren't funny questions I'm asking you. They are really quite uncomfortable, and I now see how uncomfortable Ali gets when I ask them. He stands here and calls the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise a director organisation and says that they have a contempt. In that case, the government is contemptible and does not stand up to the demands of the Left Party. After all, it is a red-green government that you support. You have all the power to put behind your words and change according to your direction. But perhaps it is because the government also realizes that it is not possible to demand a law on the right to full time. What small store or employer could have employees every day if you have a peak on maybe Friday — Saturday in your business? It is impossible to demand, and it is the same in many other areas. Perhaps the demands of the Left Party are not really real. Then you might have to work in a different way and not make it harder. There were a lot of demands that were going away. The two exceptions of the order rules should be removed, and you should not allow hired personnel. Employers would hesitate even more to hire people with Left Party politics. I am pleased that the Left Party does not have a greater influence on the government, because then it would have been even worse for many, especially for those women who have jobs with precarious jobs.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-112	Mr President, I would like to I am glad that the Moderates do not have more influence on the government and would like it to be even less on a number of issues, on refugee policy and so on. But both me and Katarina Brännström belong to opposition parties and pursue our policy based on it. What the Left Party does together with the government is to present budgets that change life for the better for many people. That's good. When municipalities, for example, have more financial space, they can hire more people, and that changes the working conditions of many of the people who work in welfare. These are just a few examples. Of course, however, I think that the government could do more on these issues. Katarina Brännström does not think so. She does not think that the government should do more and can then be happy about what is. But I can say that with Katarina Brännström's party in government it would be completely closed to these changes. Now this is not the case, because we, together with many others who work in the trade unions and others, are working to get legislation in these areas that will catch up and give the trade unions more opportunities to sign good, responsible and flexible agreements with employers in exactly the way the Swedish model is supposed to work. What you did during your reign was, as I was talking about, to introduce, for example, a general fixed-term with the conditions that apply today and which create a great deal of discretion in the labour market. Employers do not have to explain why they want a form of employment other than permanent employment. It is a problem that I believe and hope we will solve shortly.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-116	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 6 under paragraph 2 from the Liberals. I would also like to use my minutes to talk about this. We have an increasingly two-way labour market in Sweden. For most people, Sweden is doing well. Moreover, we are in a boom now and unemployment is falling. But there will also be a tomorrow, when we risk an ever-growing exclusion and a larger group of people who do not enter the labour market at all or who come in but then fall out and end up very far from the opportunity to get a job. This is a result of the fact that we have had a great deal of immigration into Sweden. There are many people with weaker roots who have come to our country, people who, of course, do not know the language as well, have lower education and so on. Then the question is how we can create a Sweden where more people are included in the labour market. Job creation is a path to inclusion and integration. Working is better than living on benefits. If we create more jobs, we also reduce class gaps. We see huge differences in establishment and integration in Sweden. This is particularly true of foreign-born women, who have a significantly lower labour market participation than men who have immigrated to Sweden, so it is also important for gender equality that we create more jobs. But then we must be prepared to lower the thresholds into the labour market, so that more people get a chance to get a job and get away from contributions to work. Virtually all the different bodies that look at the Swedish labour market and the Swedish economy indicate that it is important that we lower the thresholds and that the relatively high entry wages in Sweden are problematic from an integration perspective. In light of this, we from the Liberals have a proposal– we call it a start job. This means a new form of employment where the salary lands at 14 000– 16 000 SEK. The employer's contributions have been removed, which means that the cost of the employer is halved. You can have a start-up job for up to five years. They are aimed at people who have been in Sweden for less than five years or people under 23 years of age. Overall, we do not of course believe that this is the only solution to the problems we face, but it will help to create new jobs and make more people enter the labour market and can help. Part of what the government is now doing is good and is an extension of what the alliance government did in the past, while other things are new initiatives from the government. But that's not enough. It is about preparedness jobs, different types of integration and parts of the start-up efforts, such as so-called fast track. It's not bad. It's just that the scope is too small and that there are too few people who come to work out of this. That is why broader reforms are needed to lower the thresholds into the labour market, and start-ups are part of this. Then, of course, there are a number of other measures. It is about reforming the Public Employment Service or abolishing it and creating a new authority that is better able to carry out the task, it is about reforms in the field of taxation, and so on. However, the report before us today does not mention that.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-125	Mr President, I would like to In this year's motion report on labour law issues, the Christian Democrats have some reservations about government policy. The majority are recurring since last year, but we also have a new issue that we want to put forward. It is about creating more jobs for people who are far from the labour market through so-called introductory positions. I therefore request the approval of reservation 7. The reservation relates to the question of introducing a new form of employment, which we are therefore instituting. It is for persons who have not completed upper secondary education. A job is offered that does not require upper secondary education and where the lowest collective wage is SEK 22,000 a month today. We have based on the Mediation Institute's list of jobs that do not require upper secondary education. You have a salary equal to 75% of work, and then introduction and education are 25%. The employment must be full-time, and this may last a maximum of five years. The number of employees with this form of employment must not exceed the number of ordinary employees in the workplace. With the Christian Democrats' job tax deductions for groups in the start-up phase, it becomes even more profitable to work. Mr President, I would like to As we all know, a large number of new arrivals have recently arrived in Sweden. They need to get to work quickly and become self-sufficient. Here, unions and employers now need to find easier ways into work. We usually talk about lowering the thresholds into work. We know that many do not know Swedish well, and for some it takes a long time to learn Swedish. They also do not know everything about how working life works in Sweden. They simply need more time to get into work. What is best about the Christian Democrats' proposal, compared with other proposals in this area, is that we remove the hassle for both employers and employees. They'll make up for the job themselves. Age limits and how long you have been out of work do not matter, but what determines is that the job does not require upper secondary education. You are loaded with job security as with other jobs, unlike in various interventions via the Employment Service today where you are exempted from LA, the Employment Protection Act. Action for this group is urgently needed. Therefore, it is good that LO recently opened for lower entry wages for new arrivals during the training period. LO calls it a training job, and they will go to the about 30 percent newcomers who do not have upper secondary school education. It is good that LO draws attention to the fact that this is a large group that needs special efforts. LO wants to introduce compulsory schooling for new arrivals under the age of 40. But how will it work? How are we going to get resources for all the schools? How are we gonna get teachers? There is already a great lack of teachers. The risk is that you complicate things so that it doesn't happen, that employers think it gets too complicated and that people who may not be able to assimilate education don't get the chance to enter the labour market – something that Arbetsförmedlingen has warned about. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats' proposal on introductory positions is the best and easiest proposal, and it urgently needs to be tested. It is not a traditional labour market measure and therefore does not cost society anything in wage subsidies. We get a reduction in red tape when the administration of both the Employment Service and employers disappears in this area. This means that everyone benefits from this new form of employment. The government's proposals with fast track, trainee jobs and emergency work have not worked. Therefore, measures are needed that work easily for all parties. In addition to introductory positions, we Christian Democrats are proposing that something should be done about the conflict rules in the labour market. Sweden has relatively few strikes, but threats of conflict are more common. We Christian Democrats believe that in some cases the threats are disproportionate to what the contractual dispute is. We therefore want the role of mediation to be strengthened and proportionality in sympathy measures to be needed so that they do not unduly affect any counterpart or threaten socially important functions. We have recently had such cases. We believe that the parties should not be allowed to use labour-law conflict measures without first seeking mediation through the Mediation Institute or with an independent party agreed upon by the parties. Mr President, I would like to Companies need good adaptability in a globalised world where change is taking place rapidly. Companies must be able to change their business and retain key employees in the event of withdrawals. In order for you to have the courage to hire, there must be flexibility in the system. This is particularly necessary in smaller companies. Today, a company with up to 10 employees is allowed to exempt two people in the event of a reduction in activity. We believe that it should be possible to exempt four people and that it should apply regardless of the size of the company. Several entrepreneurs have highlighted the need to extend this possibility. There would also have to be a proper review of labour law in order to improve labour market flexibility in a new era. It is time to review labour law. Unfortunately, however, we cannot expect this government to encourage such a development, even if we see how the staffing industry is growing in order to get around the issue of flexibility. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats have proposed an extension of the right to use parental insurance more flexibly. Today, you have the right to be on full - time leave for a year and a half. We propose that that period be extended to three years. Many parents feel that children are a little too small for preschools when they are one and a half years old. Today, you can be on leave on a part-time basis up to the age of eight. We suggest that you can take five days per year for children up to 18 years of age. This would give parents the opportunity to attend their children's school sometimes even at a higher age. Mr President, I would like to For many, it is difficult to reconcile work with family care. The question of the possibility of full-time or part-time leave has often come back to the debate. We believe that the government needs to review the question of the right to leave in the event of family care. Mr President, I would like to I agree with all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 7.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-144	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating report No 7. It's about labour law. It is a motion report, which means that we focus on the issues on which Members of Parliament have written motions and not other questions. Employment law is about our rights and obligations in working life and in the workplace. These are issues that affect all of us in our everyday lives. It's about human vision, security and decency. It is about something as big as the foundation of the Swedish model. The Swedish model is based on strong labour law legislation. It is a foundation that applies to everyone in the Swedish labour market. In addition to this, we have collective agreements that are regulated between the social partners, i.e. employees' organisations and business organisations. It is this negotiating model that has led us to have a relatively great deal of peace and quiet, as well as order and order in our labour market. We therefore have legislation as a basis for all and beyond the parties' ability to negotiate sector-by-sector and nationally. For me as a social democrat, job security and a strong labour law are the very foundations of what makes our working life and therefore our society decent. I have said this before in this House, and I say it again: safe people build safe societies. We need more security, not less. Labour law is part of the security in people's everyday lives that we politicians can deliver. Every day you don't have to wave the labour laws in the workplace is a good day. Every day employees and employers get along and treat each other well is a good day. However, the days when this does not work need to be able to go back to the legislation and agreements and see what really applies. Then it is a security for all parties that it is there. If we had not had labour law in Sweden, the law of discretion would have applied. You could get rid of the job for anything: because you are a little questioning or pointing out shortcomings in the work environment and other things, because you are a little too sick, because you are a little too pregnant, because you are a little too political or because you are a little too trade union. I do not want such a labour market. It is out-of-date and would create jobs with precarious people, who would not dare to raise their voices when problems arise, when the demands become too high, when safety is set aside or someone is given special treatment. People would be afraid of losing their job. I want it to be the other way around. I want a modern labour market with safe people who feel seen, respected and involved. Such people help us build democratic society. I want a labour market where people work and receive a salary that can be lived on so that they can be independent in the common society. We have a long way to go before everyone in our country has a job, but we are well on our way. The trend has changed clearly. Unemployment is falling, youth unemployment is falling and we are well placed for it to continue to go that way. When you listen to the opposition today, you can get a picture of everything going to hell. The only way to remedy the disaster the opposition sees before it seems to be extraordinary efforts to weaken labour law and reduce the responsibility of the parties in wage formation. I do not share this view of the world. The Swedish labour market is doing well. Of course there are problems, and the labour market is divided into two. We focus on it and make political proposals for it. The numbers are turning in the right direction. We could not see a trace of this during the eight years of the alliance government. Now that the figures are turning in the right direction, the Alliance is coming up with various proposals on how to get out of the perceived crisis. Let me be clear here. Of course, I am not a satisfied politician as long as unemployment is as high as it is today. It's going down. I'm not saying everything's fine; there's a bit left. I say, however, that things are moving in the right direction. The mechanisms that exist work. They can and must be fine-tuned, but at this point we should not go in with radical changes in Swedish labour market policy. The changes we have made are producing results, and now we need time and focus for them to have even greater impact. What does the opposition want? They want many things in the report. They want to do many very different things. They don't agree on what. All parties have different suggestions on different issues, which in itself is interesting. Because of this, I am not going to mention all the reservations contained in the report because then, Mr President, we will be here for too long today. I'll settle for making a few small blows. One area in which all bourgeois parties including the Swedish Democrats have different proposals concerns the point New forms of employment for lower thresholds, etc. In general, I do not believe that it is the thresholds that are the problem in the labour market. And in general, I would like to say that every time you hear a bourgeois representative talk about lowered thresholds, you should turn on the warning lights. This is about lower job security and lower wages, nothing else. If something is a problem on the Swedish labour market, it is possible that we have left some turning doors that need to be dismantled. It's about the doors that close if you don't have the right network or those that throw you aside if you don't have the right education. It is also about doors that throw you out if you are insecure employment or that sort you out if you have the wrong name. For these challenges, we need to find solutions, and this is what the Red-Green Government is investing in. If there are any thresholds, they're already down-filed, I'd say. This can be seen not least by the effective fall in youth unemployment today. Most of the proposals in the report by the bourgeois parties concern forms of employment with increased insecurity and/or lower wages. It looks a little different because all parties have their own proposals. Some want to legislate on wage levels, which would be to completely overturn the Swedish model. Others want to solve it differently. Common to all is that the individual should pay for having difficulty getting a job, whether that's really the case or not. We are happy to target young and newcomers – as if they were homogeneous groups. I can tell you that they're not. In fact, many young people do not find it difficult to get jobs without subsidies at all. Then they should also have jobs without subsidies. The same applies to new arrivals. New arrivals cannot be regarded as being far from the labour market simply because they are new arrivals. Proposing general solutions with poorer conditions for groups based on age or ethnicity is nothing that makes our labour market or society better. Those who can get a job without support should of course have it. Anything else would be completely unreasonable. Those who need support with language training or other complementary training shall receive it. The support is designed on the basis of the individual's needs and opportunities. The state subsidises the employer. This cost should not be taken by the individual himself. This is the Social Democratic model. Furthermore, the report contains a number of proposals to amend the order of precedence in the law on employment protection, LAS. This has also been the subject of a number of comments in the debate. As in last year's debate, the bourgeois parties want to further loosen job security in various ways. And just like last year, I don't share their opinion. The Rules of Order in the Employment Protection Act are what stands between decency and arbitrariness. As I said at the beginning of my speech, I and the Social Democrats are opposed to arbitrariness in the workplace. The order of business rules mean that a hearing shall be made upon termination and that the order, that is, the last in first out, shall apply. There are numerous exceptions to the rules of rotation in the negotiations. In very few cases, negotiations at local level do not solve this. The rules of order are not the enormous problem that the bourgeois parties and the SD want to paint them. Instead, they are a guarantee that there will be no complete and unilateral arbitrariness in Swedish workplaces. We want to protect this. The Left Party has a reservation about planing. Planing means cutting working hours without prior negotiation. There is a ruling from the Labour Court on this, as the Left Party representative has just told us. There has been a gap in legislation. We would like to await ongoing agreement negotiations between the social partners. We know that the issue is on the table in several of the sectoral negotiations currently under way, and we do not want to precede them. However, I can guarantee and emphasise that we are following the issue of planing extremely closely. I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all motions.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-168	Mr President, I would like to One could say that the opposition here was ignored. The red-greens look at our proposals but say that in principle there is no need for any changes in the labour market at all. I think it is good that the Social Democrats should raise the issue of security. We also want what is called flexicurity within the EU. There must be both flexibility and security in the labour market. As an employee, you should know what applies. One should be able to feel safe in one's work. We know that many times this is also a prerequisite for obtaining loans and other things. So, of course, we are also striving for this. I believe that the majority of this House is behind the Swedish labour market model of the social partners having great influence. These various opposition proposals see the Social Democrats and Helén Pettersson as warning lights. But then I would like to ask: does she not think that LO's proposal, which came the other day, confirms that there is a need for warning lights now and that we are in an extraordinary situation? 160 000 people came in 2015 alone. Soon they will have received their information about their residence permits and will go to work. Many of them do not have upper secondary education. Why does LO go out with such a proposal, says Helén Pettersson? Yet the Social Democrats stand here and say that there is no need for changes in the labour market, that the thresholds do not need to be lowered, that there is no need for lower entry wages and that there is no need for any kind of introductions, as proposed by the Christian Democrats. What, then, is the alternative of the Social Democrats, now that we are faced with an extraordinary situation?
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-172	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Pethrus for the questions. We have security and flexibility in the Swedish labour market. I think there are many of us who sometimes meet people who think that we have too much flexibility in the labour market for the employer, who will decide whether or not it needs to be brought in people during the day, but very little flexibility for those who have put very loud noise on the mobile phone to be awakened early in the morning when there may be a text message from the employer offering to work. Should you then accidentally miss the text message or not be able to work that day – you can have something else to do even when you are unemployed, such as scheduled meetings – you know that you risk being completely deleted from the list of SMS numbers that the employer intends to contact you until the next day. Some call it flexibility. I call it insecurity. And I'd love to see more safe people, just like I said. I'm a Member of Parliament, just like Désirée Pethrus. We are dealing with legislation in this House. As far as labour law is concerned, it is important, as I said in my main speech, that we have a strong legal basis. Then the parties agree on the issues where they can. It is not my role to review what is stated in various collective agreements, even if one would like to do so sometimes. I do not intend to review the first draft proposal that has now been drawn up to negotiate with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. If the parties agree, I will not be there to poke, which I do not do on other issues where they agree, because that is what the Swedish model is based on.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-175	Mr President, I would like to I think it is extremely important that we receive an answer from the Social Democrats. Can we not think of another type of employment to encourage an alternative to SMS employment? I also do not think that SMS employment is the right way forward, and I do not really think that anyone would want that type of employment, although I realise that this is something that comes in other countries too, as we saw when we visited the United States with the committee not long ago. The Social Democrats will hopefully see the problems we face in the labour market, but the measures proposed by the Social Democrats have not been effective. Then we have to try other ways, and that is why we are probably very many in this House and in different parties proposing new types of employment. Mr President, I would like to In my second and final line, I would like to ask a question about something that is also mentioned in the report, namely the social pillar of social rights. We had a discussion yesterday with the Prime Minister as to whether it is the case that the government is pushing the issue of a social pillar. In committee, we have understood that the Social Democrats and the Minister for Labour want to push forward the issue of a social pillar with more detailed regulation of labour market policies. The Prime Minister says, however, that he is not pushing this issue. My question is simply: what exactly are the Social Democrats pushing?
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-178	Mr President, I would like to Is there no need for other forms of employment other than SMS employment? Yes, it is, and there is. There are a lot of forms of employment that are adapted to industries in current collective agreements based on the industry's conditions. These are excellent forms of employment for those particular industries. What if we could use them better than texting jobs? Do we need a new form of employment? Mrs Pethrus says that the actions of the Social Democrats have not produced results. I do not know if Mrs Pethrus listened when I spoke in my main speech about how it turns the Swedish labour market around, how youth unemployment goes down, how long-term unemployment goes down and how unemployment in general goes down. Yes, the policy of the Social Democrats makes a difference. We saw no change whatsoever in this direction during the eight years when the Christian Democrats and the other alliance parties ruled Sweden and presented their labour market policies. Then we had a very high unemployment rate. We received support from the EU to deal with our youth unemployment. It is a shame that we ended up in that situation in Sweden. This is what we have turned around. I would also like to point out that we have been in government for two and a half years and have managed to turn the figures around. Not everything will happen in a day, but it is heading in the right direction. The mechanisms we have work, but we need to hone them. We need to focus on those people who are far from the labour market in order for them to enter. We do not solve this through general forms of employment with reduced job security.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-181	Mr President, I would like to There were many beautiful words, Helén Pettersson. The praise of labour law was sung when the Social Democrats were in the pulpit. And that's good. Much is good in the Swedish labour market. So do we. But it didn't sound that way before the election. Then the Social Democrats did not say that everything was done, that the balance of power was good and that the regulations were perfect. It was the other way around. There was an incredible amount of wrongness. The general time limit would certainly be gone. There were many of you who promised to sit in this Chamber. It would be a full-time right if the social partners did not fix this. So, how's it going? The term of office is not over yet, but now it seems that most of it is very good. It is only in the Left Party that you are not satisfied. They are the ones who address the demands that you had before the elections. You have the power to change. If everything was so bad before the elections, why don't you come up with a single proposal now? Perhaps our proposals were not so bad in fact. Now that the Left Party is proposing what was previously proposed by the Left Party, you are proposing those motions. It's not something you bring up and move on with. One thing Helén Pettersson admits that there are problems with, and that is unemployment. But at this point, no changes should be made," she says. It's an interesting statement that I'm going to save. So you're happy with what it's like. There's no need for any changes anywhere. Then hearing about lowered thresholds as warning lights becomes a bit strange. Of course, everything needs to be done to get more people to work. That's where the obstacles are. Why don't people get jobs? Why is there a high unemployment among newcomers in Sweden that is also growing? It is clear that thresholds and obstacles must be removed there. That's a lot of beautiful words. I'd like to hear how it turned like that.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-187	Mr President, I would like to I don't really know how to deal with this. I do not know whether Katarina Brännström has suffered from selective hearing or has simply chosen not to hear what I have stood and said in my speech and in the previous line shift. No, I'm not happy with everything in the Swedish labour market. I was pretty clear about that. I also made it clear that the trend has reversed. We have the right mechanisms, but we must and must refine and focus so that we reach the individuals who need help best. If anyone has heard anything else from my mouth in the Chamber today, I do not think it is because of me. Are we satisfied with Swedish labour law? Why haven't we done anything? Katarina Brännström said in her speech that there have been no proposals and that everyone seems satisfied. To be honest, it is this parliamentary term that at least three proposals have been on Parliament's table that have dealt with labour law in various forms. We have had a proposal not to abuse stacking of fixed-term contracts. We've had a bill on whistleblowers. We had a bill that included some demands for collective agreements in public procurement that was unfortunately voted down by the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats. This government has taken small steps to strengthen labour law. But it has taken more steps than any other government in modern times. Do not stand here and say that there have been no proposals and that there is no will from the government in the area of labour law. It's just wrong. The rest I'll have to come back to in my next line shift so I don't get cut off again.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-192	Mr President, I would like to The trend has reversed. The right mechanisms are in place. Then what is it? There have been no changes coming from this government. The right trends were probably already in place. One thing that is the government's responsibility is all those who are outside the labour market. You can't believe the parties are gonna fix that. We haven't heard anything about that. Clearly, there is no need for changes with new forms of employment, or else the government or the Social Democrats believe. Small steps have been taken, says Helén Pettersson. That's so sweet. As for whistleblowers, it was an investigation by the Alliance. There are no big things about all the things you complained about before. The date would be gone, and the right to full-time would be there. There was quite a lot to change in Swedish labour law. Then there are some proposals that we initiated during our time but did not have time to make because of the shift of power. It's a little silly to take credit for it. Apprehension is something that was mentioned too many times by both the Left Party and the Social Democrats. What kind of arbitrariness is there that trade union negotiations can't help? If so, why do you not change the regulatory framework so that there is no room for arbitrariness in the event of redundancies? I don't really know what it was. I feel like you're just sticking to beautiful words. But there won't be a workshop. There won't be any real proposals. The rules of order were very good nowadays, although they were not good before. There are many examples of this. In fact, we see a weak government that is not in a position to make any proposals. I think that one should be honest and say: we do not have a majority for what we think. Or you should say, "We think it's good." It gets very strange with double messages and a little bit of a double standard when you say such different things and nothing really has changed.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-197	Mr President, I would like to There's a lot of balls in the air. It is about both how to tackle unemployment and what we want labour law to look like, and so on. It's a little much to collect in two minutes. Has the Social Democratic government done nothing to deal with unemployment? We've done that. For example, we have removed the job coaches. We have given clear assignments to Arbetsförmedlingen for how to work with the unemployed. In this case, the Swedish Public Employment Service is now working on what it should look like. We have a wide variety of subsidised forms of employment adapted to the individual and not general solutions for ethnic groups or age groups. There's a lot going on. We have the 90-day guarantee that we have implemented, implemented and are very close to having rooted home by now. Of course a lot of things are happening. The solution is not to include a new form of employment in the Employment Protection Act with lower pay or lower employment protection. There are so many other things you can do, as we do, and that results in unemployment statistics. There have been so little things in the bill, it is said. I say these are small steps, but these are steps that are taken. As far as the whistleblower law is concerned, it was the bourgeois government that set up the investigation, absolutely. That's good. We also agreed on this when we made decisions in this House. The same is true of the fixed times. The problem with them was that there the bourgeois government had stalled. It didn't even want to make that decision. We grabbed that and did it when we came to power. Do not say that proposals on labour law are not put forward and that there is no will, because there is.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-203	Mr President, I would like to I reacted when I heard Mrs Pettersson's speech when she expressed herself about the thresholds in the labour market and that it was not a problem, as I understood that Mrs Pettersson said. How are labour market thresholds not a problem? Last week, LO presented a proposal on training jobs just to meet the thresholds in the labour market. They pointed out that this is a major problem. Just look at the statistics on labour market thresholds. It shows that we get a huge division. Those who are close to the labour market have very good conditions, while those who are far from standing are ever further away from getting a job. It is also confirmed by a number of major institutions, including the Council of Finance Ministers and the Institute of Economic Development, that reforms are needed to lower labour market thresholds. My question is: Does Helén Pettersson mean that we do not have to lower the thresholds in the labour market in order for more people to get a job to go to? If not, what would the Social Democrats propose for reforms to lower the thresholds for these groups?
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-206	Mr President, I would like to I feel that there are many questions that are repeated. Perhaps I am the one who has a problem with the fact that I am unclear in my speeches. I'll try to be clear this time. What I said was that when you hear the words and thresholds in the labour market, come from a bourgeois politician, you should start your warning lights. It's just that they want to reduce wages and/or reduce job security. It is not the Socialist Government's solution to unemployment problems. The concept of lowering thresholds is used, as the Center Party has done for many years, to make it sound as though there are thresholds into the labour market. It is something that is an obstacle, and it is not good. We're gonna file them down and remove them. We're cutting wages. It's not our way. At the same time, I say that there are problems. I chose a bit comically to call it swing doors in the speech. There are problems getting into the Swedish labour market. But it's not about wages being too high or job security being too high, even if you can be fooled to believe it when you listened to Fredrik Christensson's speech about how our strong legislation locks people into workplaces so that they have to remain in a job that they don't like because they can't leave it. What kind of legislation does the C-entrepreneurs refer to that prevents them from leaving their job? As far as I know, it is quite common to do so and that you can. I also think it's good for you to change jobs when you don't like your job.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-210	Mr President, I would like to I want to start where Helén Pettersson left off. As far as the rules of rotation are concerned, we see a problem in the labour market. A study was presented a few years ago that showed that one in four people is unhappy with their work. It is clear that rotation rules that end up on the rotation list if you change jobs affect people's motivation or ability to change jobs. It creates lock-in effects, but it also creates difficulties for people to enter. What I wanted to highlight was the thresholds in the labour market. Helén Pettersson says that she should close her ears as soon as the bourgeois parties speak of lower thresholds in the labour market. How does Helén Pettersson get to grips with the fact that LO has now presented proposals that just mean lower thresholds in the labour market and lower wages for the groups that are farthest from it? How do the Social Democrats view this when it comes from a very close organization? If you look at the problem it is widespread in Sweden. Sweden has the lowest proportion of easy jobs in both the EU and the OECD. Simple jobs are not easy to do, but they do not require high qualifications and not long education. In quite a short time, people can learn the profession and become even better. Many of the professions are quite difficult jobs, but they do not require education. Reforms are needed for that. The Center Party and several other parties have presented proposals to create opportunities for several simple jobs. It is a question of extending RUT deductions, new forms of employment and reducing the cost of hiring so as to create opportunities for these jobs. I do not see this problem as being addressed by the Social Democrats, given that they say that the thresholds entering the labour market are not a problem – despite the fact that we have high entry wages and despite the fact that we have a labour law that is problematic and that shuts people out. Those furthest from the labour market risk getting even further away from it, and that is a real problem. If we are to face this, there must be reforms, which unfortunately does not come from the Social Democratic Government.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-216	Mr President, I would like to I think we have completely different pictures of the solution to the problem of many people's disenchantment at their job. I think a lot of people don't like their job because they don't feel safe there. I think that many people for a long time may have felt locked up because there have not been so many other options. We have had a bourgeois government that has cut a lot in adult education and the opportunity to retrain and change jobs if you feel that you do not like your job. We are now trying to remedy this in order to have the opportunity to change jobs even in adulthood if you feel uncomfortable or have made the wrong choice when you were a teenager and chose upper secondary school. This is one of the things that drives me. It is, of course, a question of education. Do we want low-skilled jobs in greater numbers than today in Sweden? No, we've been trying to get away from it. We have tried to create better education for people in Sweden so that they can take higher qualified jobs so that Sweden can compete on a world market. Going back and getting elevator guards and maids-- what is the future path for a country in 2017? I see quite different solutions to the problems we have today. It is about education, about the conditions for being and standing strong in the labour market, about having a salary that you can live on, about developing your own role in society and about participating in the construction of society. It is the Social Democratic policy of the future.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-220	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report as a whole. Unemployment is falling and employment is increasing. The economic situation, combined with government policy, is producing results. Nevertheless, there are still major labour market challenges. The vulnerable group is far removed from the labour market despite the government's efforts to help them get into it. These are people born outside the borders of Europe who are over 55 years of age or who have a disability with reduced working capacity. Mr President, I would like to It is important to point out that the employment rate for foreign born people has improved over the last five years, and this applies to both men and women. But it is still lower than for natives. Mr President, I would like to The report contains claims for new forms of temporary employment. These calls put great hope that precarious jobs will solve the problem for people who are outside the labour market. But I do not see how these proposals solve the challenge. The Green Party believes that employment protection is and should continue to be an important element of our labour market model. We believe that fixed-term employment should be a transition to a further employment and that a six-month probationary period is a reasonable time for the employer to test his new employee. Mr President, I would like to We already have a wide range of labour market measures with varying results. The government has not stood still on this important issue. The Employment Service offers generous incentives for companies to employ people who are far from the labour market. Nevertheless, these efforts do not always result in long-term employment for the individual. The reason for this may be that the person in question lacks the skills required by the employer, that the person is in need of additional social or educational measures, that employers do not intend to employ new employees or anything else. Mr President, I would like to Those who fail to move from a labour market measure to a continuation of employment do not need precarious forms of employment. They need a job that suits their abilities and skills. One way to create such services is through social enterprises – a form of enterprise that the Green Party defends and wants to facilitate. Today, labour-integrated social enterprises are making a major effort to create jobs for long-term unemployed people. There are a lot of challenges, but also great opportunities, for work integration social enterprises to contribute with their knowledge and experience. Mr President, I would like to I was in my old country, Chile, last week. There I met people who told me about their everyday struggle for their rights in the workplace. That's the kind of conversation you get perspective. One feels pride and thinks: How good we have it in Sweden with our labour market model. Do not touch it to make it worse for the workers, but strengthen it instead!
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-229	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all reservations. Mr President, I would like to The four freedoms in the EU are under way with the UK's Brexit decision. We all know that they involve the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital. The EU has in common higher GDP than the US. Despite the fact that the EU's population accounts for only 6.9% of the world's population, the EU's external trade accounts for about 20% of world trade. The EU is the world's largest exporter of goods and services and the largest import market for over a hundred countries. The EU also has the largest single market in the world. Both European and international consumers and investors benefit from a simplified system in an area where people, goods, services and money can circulate freely. The EU negotiates agreements through its international network of trade relations and its many partners, primarily through free trade agreements. About 62% of total EU trade is intra-EU trade. Mr President, I would like to These partnerships can create jobs and growth in the EU by opening up new markets with the rest of the world. For example, the markets on the other side of the Atlantic mean transactions of around EUR 2 billion every day. The EU's trade policy will also combat child and forced labour, environmental degradation and price volatility. Systems ensuring transparency and traceability in the supply chain are an example of this. In the poorest countries of the world, the EU's trade policy seeks to combine trade with development. Lower tariffs, support for small export companies and advice on better management are only a few ways in which trade and development policies can work together to benefit the most deprived from trade-driven growth. Free trade is fundamental to the EU. It is also important for the EU to have a good agreement with the US, like the one negotiated within the TTIP. However, there is little chance that it will be implemented, at least if we listen to the signals of the Trump administration. We must always counter protectionist forces that hamper development opportunities, not least in those countries that are in the next phase of development from poverty to prosperity. Nationalism, tariffs and fear of new competition must not stand in the way of openness, free trade and development. Mr President, I would like to Migration policy in the EU has been, is and will continue to be the focus. The thousands and thousands of refugees who are trying to cross the Mediterranean in rank and seaworthy boats and all refugees who are trying to enter the EU via EU countries with land borders to the transit countries that are in the immediate vicinity and who wish to seek asylum and residence permits within the EU are affecting but also creating tensions within the EU. At all times, we must stand up for more legal ways into the European Union. They range from more quota refugees to the fight against organised crime, which makes a great deal of money by milking refugees from Africa in particular on their small savings and sending them on deadly journeys across the Mediterranean. The right of asylum must be protected. It is urgent that we stand for humanism and solidarity within the EU, but also between the Member States. It is not enough for some EU countries to slip forward without taking responsibility for the solidarity policy of migration while others, such as Sweden and Germany, take disproportionate responsibility for the people who are entitled to asylum and future residence permits in one of the EU countries. We welcome the Commission's continued efforts to achieve a genuine and solidarity-based migration policy within the EU. We should also continue to discuss the EU's partnership framework with third countries. Country packages drawn up under the Partnership Frameworks shall be consistent with long-term development cooperation and the related criteria and guidelines. Mr President, I would like to In these times of international concern, it is particularly important for the EU to agree on the common global security regime. The EU's influence in conflict zones, in the promotion of peace, in the development of human rights, in the principles of the rule of law and for democracy is considerable. It is not only a question of promoting positive development economically and humanitarianly, but also of helping, through diplomacy and clear positions, to reduce conflicts, incidents and wars in our surrounding world. Last year, there were various conflicts in the EU's neighbourhoods, and where possible, the EU acted fairly resolutely and decisively. Yes, there are shortcomings, but most often the EU countries come together together to combat terrorism, violence and conflict escalation. We particularly welcome France's initiative to revive the discussion around Israel and Palestine. Sweden has acted actively in collaboration with France and I hope to see some progress in 2017. Mr President, I would like to It is good that there is a European action plan in the field of defence and that the Commission is working to ensure that the European defence market and the industrial and knowledge base can achieve the military capabilities needed in a longer perspective. However, it is important to point out that these are intergovernmental practices within the EU which are in harmony with the security interests of each country within the common market and in the common security and defence policy. It is not about creating a common EU army or building a common headquarters for defence cooperation. Nor must there be additional costs, but must be financed within the existing budgetary framework. I also believe that the EU's common foreign and security policy will become increasingly clear and offensive with Brexit and the access of the Trump administration.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-243	Mr President, I would like to When we are debating the Commission's work programme for 2017, I cannot help but think that the name of the work programme is central to Europe – a Europe that protects, defends and puts the citizen at the centre. These are precisely the important issues facing the EU today. It is therefore also gratifying that this is the name chosen by the Commission for its work programme. However, I would like to raise an issue which I find a bit boring, and that is that today, on 15 March, we are debating the work programme two and a half months into the year. I would like to see the Swedish Parliament and other Member States have an opportunity to debate and make rational decisions on the EU work programme earlier precisely on the basis that the EU is important. The European Union is an issue that concerns all European countries, its partners and, of course, us citizens living and staying in the European Union. The EU has served its Member States, partners and citizens well, and we must all work to ensure that this continues to happen. As regards Parliament's handling of the Commission's work programme, we from the Committee on Foreign Affairs have given all committees here in Parliament the opportunity to express their views. Eight committees, those dealing most with EU-related issues, have delivered opinions to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In my speech, I will highlight some of the issues that I believe are important and central to the Commission's work programme. Of course, there is much more to be said, Mr President, but in a debate more people will be able to speak. We Moderates have left no reservation in this report. On the other hand, we have issued two opinions, and we have done so together with our alliance colleagues. For us Moderates, it is of great importance that the principle of subsidiarity is applied within the EU, that the Commission focuses on the issues that are horizontal and to be resolved at European level, and that national self-determination is maintained, as well as regional and municipal. All decisions must be taken at the right level. The Commission's work programme addresses ten different issues. They are all very important, such as investment in work, growth, investment, a digital single market, a resilient Energy Union and a forward-looking climate policy. There is also talk of the internal market and a strengthened industry. We are talking about fair economic and monetary union. It talks about free trade agreements with the US and other countries and organisations such as the WTO. There is also talk of justice and fundamental rights based on mutual trust, as well as a new migration policy, a Europe as a strong global player and a Union in democratic change. This, Mr President, captures the important issues that the EU needs to work on and focus on in order to remain relevant to its members and the world around it. We Moderates believe that the European Commission should continue, as has already been said, to reduce the regulatory burden on businesses and apply the principles of better regulation in all activities to also introduce the REFIT programme, where much is about simplification. This is one of the central and important issues of the Western world. Without a functioning economy, it is very difficult for our Western societies. I see in my view that the regulatory simplification work that will be going on can also benefit our Swedish business community. No one in this House has been able to fail to note the need for simplified legislation. I would also like to mention a few words about the free trade agreements that exist. Of course, what we all think of, including us Moderates, is TTIP. It is an agreement on free trade with the United States that we have all looked forward to. That is why it is unfortunate that the US is now expressing doubts about a TTIP agreement. I hope that, the longer the time passes for the new regime, the presidential administration in the United States, the thoughts will change and Trump will also see that a free trade agreement between the EU and the United States is something that serves the United States well. I would also like to highlight another issue that is important, namely the right to privacy. It is easy now that the EU is facing major and comprehensive challenges to focus on how to deal with them. How will the threat of terror be combated? How are we going to get better security? It is urgent to do so, but at the same time the EU must not compromise fundamental rights such as personal protection, freedom of expression and press, etc. This is something that we in Sweden must ensure that we monitor. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to say a few words on the issue of education. This is one of the important issues in the European Union. It is also a historic issue. It is not included in the work programme, but a common position on education is important and crucial. It is about the Erasmus programme. Before the EU existed, it was not as easy for higher education students to study in different countries. There was a possibility, but it wasn't as easy. Joint agreements allow individual students to study abroad. That is why the apprenticeship programme, for example, will be positive. And the EU's programme, Education and Training 2020, can contribute to something much more positive for the EU in terms of education and the labour market than it is today.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-257	Mr President, I would like to It is undoubtedly a fact that Europe faces one of its greatest challenges since the fall of the Iron Curtain and the marriage of East and West. Half a century of separation, suspicion and rivalry would be healed together to embed a new generation of Europeans. A new generation of EU citizens would not have to think about whether they were born in Poland or Portugal, Athens or Amsterdam. As a European one could move across borders, train, get jobs and start a family. A borderless Europe has given us boundless opportunities. However, not everyone feels that they have been able to take advantage of those opportunities. Not everyone has seen a borderless Europe as an asset. Rather, they have seen it as a threat to jobs, to welfare and to local markets. Instead, the EU bureaucracy designed to ensure quality, reliability and transparency has been allowed to symbolise inefficiency and inaccessibility. Unfortunately, the democratic project that the European Union is has not always succeeded in strengthening the opportunities and experiences of co-determination and influence that European citizens want. For many, the distance between citizens and decision-makers seemed to increase. But the idea was that Europe would feel more accessible to all. We have a lot to work with here. We are now seeing around the world the effects and consequences of growing gaps between city and country, between poor and rich, between citizens and decision-makers. Mr President, I would like to Today, the Netherlands is voting on which path to choose. It strikes me that, as in Austria, there are two main roads which are growing bigger and stronger. On the one hand, we see the pessimistic, suspicious and nationalistic path that marks the far-right parties. There people are seen as problems in the first place, rather than as assets. There you choose first of all to stop and be yourself enough, instead of opening up and reaching out a helpful hand when it starts to blow. On the other hand, we see the green straw. It is represented, for example, by Van der Bellen as Austrian President, Groen Links with Jesse Klaver who managed to quadruple support for the Green Party and our own Swedish example with a red-green government leading the way for a sustainable and solidarity-based Europe. We solve challenges together and see potential in each person's ability to make a difference. Mr President, I would like to The EU has concerns. But we also have excellent conditions for solving these concerns. We need to strengthen trust, dialogue and trust between decision-makers and citizens. We need to strengthen participation and reduce the gap between decisions and what we decide on. The EU should focus on what it is best suited to solve: the cross-border challenges posed by climate change, security and migration. The EU should be the open Union that has made and enables people to move across borders, educate themselves, work and build new lives and opportunities – no matter where they happen to be born or want to be. Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that in Sweden we have a fairly broad and cross-block consensus on the value and importance that Europe plays today for a safe, sustainable and secure Europe. It is through more cooperation and transparency, not less, that we can increase employment and investment in our part of the world. It is through more cooperation and transparency, not less, that we can turn Europe's energy market into climate neutral and secure. It is through more cooperation and transparency, not less, that we can face the refugee situation in the world today. Europe should be a welcoming and supportive player, not an inhospitable place where people want to make it worse for people to live. My friends! The EU is more important than ever – for peace, for democracy and for human rights. We need cohesion now. We need to stand up for European cooperation. We undoubtedly need to stand up for the Eastern Partnership. We need to stand up for countries' right to choose which direction they want to take, what story they want to write – oa vs. where they happen to have their geographical location, regardless of whether your neighbour thinks so. Everything else is contrary to international law. We must stand up to the nationalist forces that are trying to counter our open society and our cooperation. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-267	Mr President, I would like to Welcome to the debate, Minister. It is always nice when the government participates in our debates. Mr President, I would like to This is a special day. We will discuss the Commission's work programme while looking at one of the EU Member States, the Netherlands, where elections are held today. There are signs that our Europe is in challenging times. The EU as a peace project celebrates this year 60 years. We must remember that and highlight it. Because sometimes it feels like we're forgetting our own story. It's not for good. In the 60 years that have passed, there has been a fantastic development in our Europe. The EU has gained many new members. And today many people are seeking a voice for the values that have brought Europe forward, which have borne Europe up. Liberal values are multilateralism, democracy, the rights and freedoms of people, the rule of law, transparency and respect. A year like this, it is important that the voice of the European Union is clear about our fundamental liberal values. They are threatened today from many different directions. The Commission's work programme for 2017 partly captures these values, although the ten points highlighted are also based on some other bases. I have nothing against the ten points, but it is important that we really stand up for value issues in 2017. It may apply outside and also within the borders of the EU. There is ongoing work on development in Poland. There the liberal values are challenged and threatened. It is therefore important that the Commission stands up for what is unifying. This also applies, of course, to Hungary and other countries that are looking at the illiberal lines that we see growing stronger today. The Committee on Foreign Affairs' report focuses on the areas for which it is specifically responsible. They may be open and fair free trade, which is now an area under threat. Many seek to close, close borders and find bilateral solutions instead of the global solutions that truly create the conditions for equal trading opportunities. It is important in these times that we stand up for free trade and that we do so even when the USA seems to be driven backwards. We hope that the EU will be able to be a good and successful voice in the talks with the new US administration – this to reverse the line that looks like Trumps's hiking path. Migration policy is also one of the areas in focus for the current work programme and for the Foreign Affairs Committee. We have a common understanding that a new migration policy needs to be developed. I would also like to emphasise what the committee is saying about partnership countries. When using development funding in third countries to address some of the migration challenges, it is important that this is done in a way that is consistent with the DAC regulatory framework. These issues should not be blurred in the EU's migration policy work. Mr President, I would like to Finally, we in the Center Party want to see Europe as a strong global player. Such a clear voice is needed. A clear voice is needed towards our eastern neighbourhood. The Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine is visiting Sweden today. Ukraine is one of the areas that clearly needs a strong global voice from the EU – a voice that clearly stands up for Ukraine's territorial rights and integrity, a voice that is clear to Russia as an aggressor and a voice that holds together against our opponents in relation to Russia. There is also a need for a clear voice when Europe is challenged. In recent days we have been able to see Turkey and an increasingly authoritarian Erdo who is trying to break relationships to the best of their ability – and that ability seems to be great. But, Mr President, we must stand up against Turkey. I expect the Minister here to show clear support both for Holland's statements and for Germany's action on the recent diplomatic crisis with Turkey. Mr President, I would like to With this, I am calling for the reservations to be rejected. I also refer to the specific opinion.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-281	Madam President, I would like On 25 March, EU leaders are celebrating the 60th anniversary of the Rome Treaty. Today we are discussing the Commission's work programme, and – as Kerstin Lundgren mentioned – today the Netherlands is going to elections. It is one of this year's three so-called predestined elections in the European Union. The Dutch people today have to choose between populism and decency, between racism and open liberal society. Above all, today's elections, like the German and French elections, will be a battle between the European community and nationalist divisions. The Swedish Democrats' sister party promises to hold a vote on nexit, if you win. Wilder wants the Netherlands to leave the EU – this despite the fact that it is heavily dependent on exports and despite the fact that the Netherlands will be hit hard by Brexit. One third of the Netherlands' GDP is trade. Today in Europe we see an empty and destructive nationalism when it is at its worst. Madam President, I would like Yet we are the same requirements here at home. The EU is the Netherlands' best investment, and it is also Sweden's best investment. The European Union was founded on the ruins of yesterday's world. After decades, even centuries, of war and misery, the heir enemies agreed that peace would prevail on the European continent. Europe is a victory for democracy, freedom and openness. It is also a matter of where we feel at home. For me, the answer is obvious: Europe. Sweden is and will remain part of the European Community and the family. We know that democracy, freedom and openness have given way to the Swedish prosperity that we are taking advantage of today. Free trade and curiosity have led to better management of resources and faster dissemination of technology. But now some parties in this House want us to withdraw all of this. The world does not look the same today as it did in 1995, when Sweden joined the European Union. It's changed. In the same way, Sweden is not the same country as before EU membership. We have become richer, and people's freedom of choice has increased tremendously. Today we take for granted that we should be able to study and work in another European country without any hassle. Many have found love on the continent. People can live together regardless of their nationality – all of this thanks to the European Union. After joining the EU, Sweden's trade grew faster than anyone could ever predict or even imagine. Trade has since been specialised, which means that we are doing what we are good at instead of doing much and half-way. Swedish agricultural policy has become more transparent and liberalised. Competition has spurred the food industry to become sharper. Our companies can now sell their products on the same terms to over 500 million Europeans – compared to 10 million Swedes. Similarly, people today have more employers to choose from. It is the four freedoms that lie at the heart of the European Union. Europe's success is based on the free movement of goods, services, capital and people. We must not lose sight of these freedoms or forget them. Before Sweden's entry into the European Union, Swedes met with identity control and border guard also on journeys through Europe. The young people who were born in the 1990s and 2000s and who I meet today are completely unacceptable to the ID controls that are now at the Öresund Bridge. It is an absurd feature of a generation that has not encountered words such as border barriers and visa applications. Sweden without the EU was a poorer, a more restricted and a closer Sweden. The EU is also the most successful democracy project in the world. Thanks to the European Union, there has been peace in Europe, and it is thanks to the European Union that Communist Eastern Europe has been democratised. By calling for human rights and democracy in exchange for trade agreements and economic benefits, the EU with soft power has been able to influence countries in a libertarian direction. That is also why the EU remains a model for other countries and regions to follow. This heavy responsibility now falls even more heavily on the European shoulders if possible. After the United States has elected Donald Trump as the new President, it is the EU and not the United States that are the main defenders of freedom globally. It is Europe that, together with other democracies, must lead the free world. That is why the EU must shoulder a strong responsibility at home too. One must be tough about criticising those countries that are careless about human rights – I am thinking, above all, of Hungary and Poland. We must dare to use political and economic sanctions. It should cost a lot not to live up to the ideals of the European Union. Therefore, when we discuss the Commission's work programme, I think that the European Commission has not been sufficiently clear on this point. I had expected a much stronger and more powerful voice after what has happened. It is also important that the EU does not become lax in its criticism of Russia, Belarus, China and other parties. We Liberals believe in trade with other regions. Mutual dependence provides a good foundation for peace, but not at any cost. We can't sell ourselves cheap. When the government of the European Council has discussed the EU's relations with, for example, the dictatorship of China, one can sometimes ask whether the voice of the European Commission is strong enough to highlight violations of human rights and the repression of dissidents. I often doubt that the thousands of political prisoners end up high enough on the agenda. Last year Sweden celebrated 250 years of freedom of the press. We must continue to raise these issues in the European Union, not least when parties such as friends of the Swedish Democrats in Poland and Hungary pull away the carpet for progressive votes. This is particularly important today, when an important EU country chooses between unwarranted nationalism and European openness.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-301	Madam President, I would like I would also like to welcome the Minister – it is always nice when the ministers are in the debates. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has examined the Commission's work programme and political priorities for 2017. We often think that the Member States are different and have different needs, but we can still see that the EU is following the priorities that citizens throughout the EU attach great importance to. The objective of this year's work programme is a Europe that protects, defends and puts citizens at the centre of its work. This puts security issues in focus, which I think the citizens want right now. The Commission highlights ten different priorities, and we Christian Democrats in particular want the EU to raise the issue of sustainable migration and asylum policies and security issues such as border management, but also how to work better together on our common defence capabilities. In addition, of course, various efforts are needed on jobs and welfare, where free trade is an important ingredient. Madam President, I would like One might say that Europe and its entire future is in crisis. After all, Brexit has put the future of Europe in lightning, and the question is how the EU should stick together. The migration crisis is tearing the EU apart, a Europe that wants to show solidarity but where few countries are prepared to make a contribution to people on the run. Sweden has taken a great responsibility in relation to its population. We are dedicating more than the UNHCR's refugee agencies do. UNHCR has stated that 65 million are on the run from their homes. Its budget for 2016 was SEK 70 billion. That is the cost of part of our refugee reception for a year, but not all. It is estimated that the Migration Agency will receive some 60 billion, and our integration efforts will cost about 30 billion. Then there are welfare efforts on school and health care and so on, and we are also one of the largest contributors to the UNHCR. So you have to say that Sweden is doing a lot in the area of migration. But more countries need to do more, and here Europe needs to be clear: if we are to stay together, we need common solidarity. It should, of course, also be an international commitment; it is not only the EU that should take responsibility for the refugee crisis. In addition, all people who are economic refugees, who also want to go to the European Union and must have the opportunity to support themselves. What's gonna happen to that group? Perhaps there is a need for a variety of labour immigration systems, which can be improved within the EU. The EU Member States are now discussing a new reception system in the area of migration and how the regulatory framework can be equal for all. I think that is a good thing, but it may still not make a big difference when it comes to where people are looking. The different Member States have different social welfare and different economic development and thus different attractiveness. The EU must therefore find ways to increase the opportunities for legal entry into the EU. We Christian Democrats have run this in different ways. We have talked, among other things, about humanitarian visas and the possibility of seeking them in third countries, which the government has rejected. The European Court of Justice recently issued a ruling saying that it is up to each country to decide whether to grant people the right to humanitarian visas. I think it would be good if the opportunity were opened up in a broader sense: that the EU can provide support to those countries that want to contribute to the reception of people in need, but that we make it happen in an orderly manner. An improved and expanded quota refugee system must also be put in place. The EU is fighting on the refugee issue. However, I think that everyone agrees on one thing, and that is that we cannot again have a situation that in 2015, when people came into Europe uncontrollably without us having control of who they were and with what intentions they came. The registration of people was not done, and the Dublin Regulation was completely disabled. We need, Madam President, the agreements we have with Turkey, and we will need more with North Africa. But, of course, we should have agreements based on international law; that is important. The EU must now get its act together. We must find compromises with which everyone can live – it is necessary to keep Europe together. The EU is the largest aid player in the world. We can use this for prevention, because, of course, the most important thing is to tackle poverty and conflicts, which tear countries apart and force people to flee. This also means that the EU must become a stronger security policy player. Diplomacy and aid are a means of prevention, but the EU must also be able to stand firm to protect its citizens. We Christian Democrats do not want to see an EU army, but more of intergovernmental defence cooperation. We must also ensure that we have secure surveillance of our external borders when the outside world looks like it does. The spread and spread of terrorism terrifies and has recently struck even on European soil. We must take this seriously. At the same time, we must be careful not to start restricting our own freedoms, but we cannot be naive and stand unprepared for the threats we now know. The actions of other countries on European soil, serious Internet attacks and infiltration into political parties are something that has been given particular attention in France, but also in the United States. This must be taken seriously. Russia's actions call for reflection, but also for countermeasures. We're not going to seek contradictions, but we're going to respond to real security threats. Internet attacks on essential security interests must be countered together. Madam President, I would like Another important issue is how the EU can continue to be the world's largest economy. Thanks to our common strength, the EU has played a central role in the design of global trading systems. More than 30 million jobs in the EU are said to depend on foreign trade, and 90% of global economic growth in the coming years is expected to be created outside the EU. The special opinion that Mr M, L and Mr KD have written in the report highlights precisely the importance of a free-trade approach. We stress that trade agreements should not undermine existing social, trade union and economic rights in Sweden and the EU. Investment protection shall be legally secure and transparent and shall not restrict the democratic decision-making of states. More effort is needed within the EU on SMEs and on women's entrepreneurship and participation in the labour market. If women work to the same extent as men, they are considered to be able to increase by 12% in the EU; that is very much. The government has said that it wants to fight for a social dimension and a social pillar. We believe that it is detailed management that the EU should not be involved in. We shall have, and we have, good rules in the European Union for occupational safety, health and safety at work and for the protection of discrimination. Let's do it. The government also wants to amend the Posting of Workers Directive. We believe that this is the wrong way to go, as many other countries also think. More or less of the EU? That's the question. The President of the Commission, Mr Jean-Claude, recently presented a White Paper setting out five scenarios for the EU-27, on which the Member States should take a position. It will be an important discussion for all of us to participate in. So let us continue the discussion about Europe and its importance for the future. We need to develop the economy. We need solutions in the area of migration, defence and security. We must take the climate threat seriously and continue to invest in energy security. We Christian Democrats have no reservations in this report. We think that the European Commission's work programme as a whole is good. I support the committee's proposal.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-324	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that it feels very good to be here and have the opportunity to discuss Europe with you. I will briefly talk about the Commission's work programme and the increasing inequality and for the first time present the government's EU priorities for 2017. Finally, I will also say a few words about the Commission's White Paper on the future of the European Union, which Mrs Pethrus has just mentioned in his speech, as well as the government's work on participation and Brexit. I am pleased that, in the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, there seems to be overall political consensus on the Commission's work programme. It is largely in line with the EU priorities that the government is presenting today, where the issues of jobs, climate, migration and security are in focus. I will come back to these shortly, but let me first put it in a broader context. Madam President, I would like Globalisation and trade have lifted many out of poverty, but many also worry about growing gaps and increased vulnerability. A wave of nationalism and protectionism has taken place across the world and Europe, and this, of course, also affects Europe. Many people now feel that change is not improvement. On the contrary, many experience that changes are worsening. People see their jobs knocked out by global competition and technology development and thus how their life situation is threatened. It is important to understand that this frustration exists, that it is strong and, unfortunately, in many places it is well founded. In many ways, I believe that the populist and nationalist wave has been created because both national governments and the European Union have not been able to deliver enough, and above all not fast enough. Not everyone has received increased growth; instead, the divides vu x in t. When people feel that they are getting worse, they are looking for alternatives and quick answers. The most important thing is that the EU can deliver results, both on an overall scale and in people's everyday lives, and show that it creates value for all citizens. There is much that can be done here and now. It is important that the EU is able to deliver results that have a real impact. Therefore, the Government will prioritise three areas of EU work in 2017: Let me say something about why we have chosen these particular areas. Madam President, I would like The first area is jobs and inclusive growth. Since Sweden joined the EU, trade has grown and our real wages have increased. More than 1.4 million Swedes go to work thanks to Swedish exports, and more than 70% of these exports go to the EU. Trade with the internal market is crucial for Sweden. There is great potential in more ambitious trade in services and digitalisation. In order for even more Swedes to be able to go to work, the government is pushing for these issues. While the internal market needs to be further deepened in order for trade to increase, we also need to ensure that there are fair conditions for those working in the internal market and that this does not lead to wage dumping or deteriorating conditions. The economic crisis has shown that the EU Member States are affected by each other's economic and social development. As gaps increase, confidence in cooperation and political solutions is eroded. Instead, the fear of globalisation and mobility is growing and there is a risk of creating a breeding ground for xenophobia and extremism. There is no turning a blind eye to this. On the contrary, the government is determined to try to do something about the problems. On 17 November, the Prime Minister, together with the President of the Commission, Jean-Claude-Claude Juncker, hosted a summit in Sweden on fair jobs and growth. By exchanging experiences with Member States, the social partners and other key actors at the highest level, we can learn from each other how to tackle common challenges. Madam President, I would like Climate, energy and the environment are the second priority. Our cooperation within the EU has an important role not least in climate, energy and the environment. Together, we can continue to be a strong and driving global force. Although the amount of CO2 emissions in the last three years has fallen, much remains to be done. The government continues to drive an ambitious climate, energy and environmental policy. We are doing this by working for the EU to safeguard the Paris Agreement and its implementation. In February 2017, we proposed the establishment of a climate law – a historic decision with the ambition that Sweden will become one of the world's first fossil-free countries. But environmental problems are boundless. The destruction of the environment takes place locally, but the consequences of pollution do not take national boundaries into account. Air pollution is an example where the EU is helping to tackle problems that individual countries cannot solve for themselves. In 2016, the EU adopted new legislation, which is expected to contribute to halving the number of premature deaths caused by air pollution in the EU. Madam President, I would like The third priority is migration and security. Migration to Europe is a challenge for the EU Member States, and solutions must be based on everyone taking responsibility. We must, of course, work to counter the root causes of involuntary migration in the long term while ensuring that the EU has control over the external border. It is a prerequisite for the functioning of free movement within the Schengen area. Despite the challenges, things are still moving slowly in the right direction. The EU is already doing a great deal in the fight against trafficking in human beings, and Member States are working to quickly agree on a new asylum system. For the government, it is important that such a system provides a more even distribution of people seeking protection in the EU and that more legal means of protection are created in the EU. We must also ensure that asylum procedures are carried out in a legally secure manner and that those who are refused return in a well-functioning way. We know that human rights, democracy and the rule of law are being challenged around the world. These fundamental values cannot be taken for granted. They must be constantly defended and promoted, both internally in the Member States and in the EU's external relations. Russia's aggression against Ukraine and the terrible terrorist attacks of recent years demonstrate the need for a stronger and more concerted EU action. We must build our security together with others, and there Europe is more important than ever. With the implementation of the EU's global strategy, the EU will develop a common security and defence policy including an effective civilian and military crisis management capability. The EU's ability to manage both external and internal security is crucial for maintaining security arrangements in Europe. Madam President, I would like I have now told you about the government's priorities for work with the EU in 2017. Let me now say a few words about the future of Europe. On 1 March, the European Commission presented a White Paper on the future of Europe. The report does not contain any sharp conclusions but scenarios aimed at highlighting the impact of different choices on how the EU is to develop by 2025. A number of thinking papers for key policy areas will be presented in the coming months. The aim of these should be to stimulate the discussion by presenting alternative developments without drawing any conclusions. The debate on the future of Europe is both important and welcome. Together, we need to analyse the consequences of the different road choices for both the EU and Sweden. Here we need to have a broad discussion that can create the conditions for a common understanding. Here the Riksdag has a very big role to play. I am pleased that the Commission is trying to strengthen its involvement in shaping the future of Europe. In fact, the work of increasing participation in European work is very close to my heart. Through what we call EU handshake for greater involvement with different actors and parties, I try to strengthen knowledge and stimulate discussion on various EU issues. In December, I carried out a first such EU handshake for greater involvement with the social partners. A little over a month ago, I had a new EU handshake in Skellefteå with the northern counties. During the year, I will carry out several handshake, because I actually believe that we can make a difference and that we need to make a difference. As part of the participatory work, the Government has committed itself to implementing EU Councils. So far, two have been implemented. On the basis of the Commission's White Paper, I will call for a new EU Council focusing on the future of Europe. I can say that many of the participatory elements come from the investigation initiated by Mrs Ohlsson when she was Minister for European Affairs and Democracy. Madam President, I would like I have to say something about Brexit. Nevertheless, it is a major issue: the forthcoming divorce between the UK and the EU. It is important that we, as remaining members of the European Union, stick together and that we can have a well-functioning free trade agreement with the United Kingdom. The government's priority is to maintain Sweden's good relationship with the UK, and we will do everything we can to make the negotiations as constructive as possible. I have met the British minister responsible for Brexit, David Davis, several times. We've had good conversations. At the same time, we know that Britain's decision to leave the Union will have consequences for us Swedes, but above all for the British themselves. We have the opportunity to contribute constructively, and we will do so. Madam President, I would like With those words, I would like to thank you very much for me. I look forward to a constructive and energetic discussion.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-353	Madam President, I would like I think it was good. I believe that we broadly share a similar view of the future of the European Union and of the priorities in terms of jobs and growth, energy and the environment, solidarity-based refugee policy and the secure world around us – I think that is what the Minister mentioned. I think these are good issues that we absolutely must focus on. I also think we should have fair conditions in the labour market. That is something that the EU should, of course, encourage. We have, in my opinion, quite a lot of legislation and directives in this area. Social development is important in our Member States for everyone to keep up with – everyone should have a chance for development and welfare. But this is how the Government mentions the meeting in Gothenburg in November. Sweden will then host an EU-to-pp meeting on fair jobs and growth. There has been some confusion about an issue on which we have first negotiated in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. This applies to the social pillar, which we think is far too detailed. We do not think that the EU should go in and talk about exactly when someone should have a job coach and so on. That is something that each country must decide for itself. We must have regulations that say that you must not have wage dumping and so on. I have a question. The Prime Minister said yesterday that he is not running this, but the labour market is driving this. Now I just wonder: what does the Minister of the European Union say? Is she pushing that question? What is the government's line on the social pillar?
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-357	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Pethrus, for the question. I hope we follow the same line in the government. We hope that the summit will be an opportunity to discuss an effective labour market, well-functioning social protection systems and a social dialogue with Heads of Government, Labour Ministers and the social partners. However, the aim is not to decide on the social pillar or to take detailed supranational decisions on, for example, job coaches, as Mrs Pethrus mentioned. The purpose is to see: What can we learn? The background is that there has been far too little focus on how people in the labour market and the social parts of society have it. Ever since the financial crisis, we have only talked about saving the banks and how to make the economy work. The question has been very much forgotten: how are we going to get a good situation for people in the labour market? That is why we want to highlight these social issues, which we often call labour market issues in our vocabulary. I think it could be very good. The answer is: the aim is not to take any supranational decisions at this summit.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-360	Madam President, I would like That sounds hopeful. It sounds like we are beginning to agree with the government on the social pillar. It is not a good idea to proceed with the kind of detailed management that was in any case contained in the draft social pillar, as we saw in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. We do not want more supranationality in terms of labour market policy. We believe that the current regulatory framework is a good framework for security and security. This is about discrimination in the labour market. There are health and safety directives. It's about parental leave. We have a number of directives on safety and health at work and wage dumping. I think this has proved to be very effective and good. As for the fact that there has been a great deal of focus on saving banks, I can in itself think that for many ordinary citizens it is quite good that the European Union has gone in to try to create security in the financial market. It is also something that creates security for citizens. However, in my second speech I would like to ask a question about growth and that we must have a solidarity policy on refugees. I think this is linked to an issue that I try to pursue in the European Council quite often. It is about legal ways into the EU. When it comes to labour migration, we have also often had a reservation from the Alliance. We feel it is a pity that the government does not run it. Today, there is a Blue Card Directive in the EU that provides more opportunity to bring workers here. But there is no such thing as unskilled labour. Many of the people who are now in North Africa, who are unemployed and need a job, can of course be matched with those who need labour here in Europe. Then we would like the government to push the question of more legal ways in. That is my question to the Government.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-363	Madam President, I would like The government is pushing the question of more legal ways in. There is also an investigation under Maria Ferm about this. We are also in favour of increasing the opportunities for third-country nationals to come to the EU for highly qualified jobs. However, we believe that Member States should be able to apply national schemes for highly qualified workers alongside the existing Blue Card Directive. Otherwise, there is a risk that labour migration will be restricted, and we do not think that is a good thing. I think that was the answer to the questions.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-365	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the reservations to be rejected and for the committee's proposals to be approved in the report, because I missed this in my speech. I would also like to thank the Minister for her participation in the debate. It is always appreciated here in Parliament. I listened to the Government regarding the European Union, and I have some detailed questions that I want to raise that are very, very crucial. In terms of jobs and entrepreneurship, TTIP, the EU's external agreements, is a fundamental issue. I would like to see the Government develop its view on this. We Moderates believe that TTIP is very, very important for Sweden and for Europe, but also for the United States, and therefore I hope that the government really will make sure to work for the agreement. Regulatory simplification and entrepreneurship are issues that we have debated a lot here in Parliament. It is an issue that the business community is raising all the time, and it is also an issue that the social partners have raised, including the trade unions. I think this is important, and I hope that the government shares that view and will work for it. Another issue I would like to highlight concerns the Eastern Partnership. Countries that work together tend to develop positively. I would like to hear how the Government views this, because I did not hear anything about the Eastern Partnership in the speech. With regard to migration policy, I think it is important to think about human rights but also to make it easier for refugees to enter the labour market.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-371	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions. If I start with the TTIP, that is, the trade agreement that was negotiated quite far between the EU and the United States until the new administration took office, the answer is that the government is very positive that there would be a trade agreement between the two largest economic areas in the world, namely the United States and the European Union. This would undoubtedly lead to growth and more jobs. Now it is the case that ours and also the EU's assessment is that it is currently in a freezer, because the Trump administration has been very protectionist in many different ways when it comes to trade. Among other things, it has been said that one should no longer be part of the other major trade agreement that is fully negotiated, TPP, and that one should renegotiate NAFTA. However, nothing has yet been said about the TTIP, and this means that we do not yet explain it dead, but see that there is still a possibility. So far, however, there has been no particular interest from the administration. Now their so-called Trade Minister was questioned yesterday – perhaps some Members heard it – and that was precisely this way, that is, to protect America and protectionism more than to have more trade agreements. That is why we are not entirely positive. As far as regulatory simplification is concerned, I can only say that yes, the government works for regulatory simplifications, but I am not entirely sure that we and you have the same vision in everything.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-375	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answers. With regard to the TTIP free trade agreement, I hope that the government will ensure that the issue is taken forward and will really look into all the possibilities that exist in terms of the EU's ability to reach an agreement and, of course, also try to influence the United States. I say this because we from the Moderates have not experienced that the government has been in favour of TTIP in the past, nor have we tried to speed up the process. That is why I would like to raise this issue. When it comes to regulations and entrepreneurship, we do not really share the same view, but it is important to actually work for more jobs so that the business community can stay in Sweden. More people should choose to start a business and not feel and feel that entrepreneurship is difficult and that there are rules that make it impossible to start up and run a successful business. Sweden should be an example there, and I would therefore like to receive more comments from the Government on what issues the Government intends to pursue within the EU in order to achieve regulatory simplification and for what is stated in the Commission's work programme to be implemented. With regard to migration issues, I would like to reiterate the importance of both citizens' confidence in migration policy and the EU as a rule of law that ensures that people seeking protection are given the opportunity to participate in the labour market. There, the government can do much to ensure that more people can get in. I would like comments on this.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-380	Madam President, I would like I would like to say briefly that it is wrong to say that the government is not trying to get an agreement between the US and the EU. We have worked very hard for this, but it is the Commission that is conducting all the negotiations. There are now several ongoing negotiations– I will not list them all – and we also see that it can be easier in some other areas, as other countries are now seeing the closure of the US market. That is why the EU can find it easier to negotiate with Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay, Japan, the Philippines, Tunisia and so on, which is a positive thing. As far as regulatory simplification is concerned, of course, we are working to make it easier for businesses, but there are rules that are there to protect workers, to protect health and food safety, and there is no need to remove rules that fulfil a role. It's only if you find rules that you agree on does not fulfil that function that you should work to get rid of them. Many rules are very good, and we have no reason to remove them. On the other hand, as far as rules in the internal market are concerned, we are fighting hard to remove many rules that we think are only there today to protect national interests. I can take one example, and it is a matter of rules for which professions are to be given. In Sweden we have about 40 such restrictions. In Germany they have about 600. For example, there are rules for who gets to be a baker– you need to have a certification in order to become a baker. It is a typical rule that we are now trying to get rid of in the big service package. There are a number of other national rules which make the free movement of services more difficult, and where Sweden is the driving force. Unfortunately, we are now losing Britain, which has been involved in this work.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-384	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the information about the Government's priorities for 2017! They were very similar to the priorities presented in March 2016, so there was nothing really new under the sun in that part. I would also just like to agree with the position of the Government regarding Sweden's actions in future Brexit negotiations, both in terms of keeping the EU together and in terms of being a constructive partner in trying to achieve a good free trade agreement with the United Kingdom, which we hope will also stick together when that day comes. I chose to ask for a reply because I listened carefully to hear whether the Council of State was partly concerned with the recent developments in Turkey's view of the values of the European Union. If Europe is to be a strong global player, it must be clear and stand up for the values that we have jointly built Europe around. We must clearly indicate when these values are being attacked, whether it is internally within the EU or from an external actor. In this case, we have been able to hear President Erdo中an jumping on several of our Member States, such as Germany and Holland. It is important that we are all clear on the part of Sweden but also on the part of other EU countries that we are behind our fellow citizens when they are attacked in such an unacceptable way as we have been able to hear from President Erdo中an. I want to know if the government shares that view.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-388	Madam President, I would like I'll start with Brexit. I really believe that Sweden's role must be to conduct constructive discussions and negotiations. There are signs that the tone is screwed up a lot. It won't be to your advantage. Sweden is so economically dependent on trade with the EU on both the services and the goods side that it would not be good for us if there were chaos in the negotiations. That is absolutely our ambition. The government, directly to representatives of the Turkish Government, has been, and will continue to be, clear that we are concerned about the conditions for carrying out the referendum and the constitutional changes that apply under the current state of emergency. We have expressed deep concern about the arrests of the political opposition, not least the party leaders of the HDP, and the limited freedom of expression. With regard to the concrete discussions and tough statements between Turkey and the Netherlands, we believe that it is the time for all sides to refrain from further escalation and, instead, to lower the tone and make an effort to establish a dialogue. No one benefits from the tremendously escalated and sometimes unpleasant comments. In fact, there are no negotiations at the moment between the EU and Turkey. We believe that a long-term view must be taken of Turkey and the EU-wide approach process. We believe that this is the best way to promote reforms in Turkey. We expect Turkey, which is a candidate country, to live up to fundamental rights and freedoms.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-392	Madam President, I would like I hear the government is worried or deeply worried. On Monday, we were able to take note of the Venice Commission report on the constitutional proposal to be the subject of a referendum in Turkey. It is a devastating report in its clarity on the conditions for holding a democratic referendum. After reading the statement, there is reason to be clear. The conditions for a democratic referendum are lacking, as is the reality in Turkey today. Sweden and the EU need to be clear about this. As far as developments over the last week are concerned, I agree with the view that we should not step up and create a high tone. On the other hand, Madam President, we must be clear that we stand together in solidarity for the values on which the European Union has been founded. When they are trampled on by President Erdo中an, it is clearly a question of solidarity for us to stand behind both Prime Minister Rutte and Chancellor Merkel.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-395	Madam President, I would like The government has been clear to the Turkish representatives that we do not see a positive development of the rule of law, human rights and democracy. Rather, it is the opposite. It is important to note that the different countries are dealing with this issue in different ways, but we fully agree that we must emphasise that Turkey must comply with the EU's paragraph 2, that is, freedom, democracy and the principles of the rule of law and civil rights. It is therefore important that the issue is raised when negotiations are reopened with Turkey. They're not going on like I said. Here, the way the EU works has changed considerably in terms of the EU's instruments for strengthening the rule of law. For example, it has been revised in order when negotiating membership and starting with these issues, as was done at the end of the day. I can come back to these issues later, but we have ensured that both the Council and the Commission have access to new instruments to work on issues relating to the rule of law. It is one of the issues that has been most worked on in the last six months. It is quite clear to Turkey what both Sweden and the majority of EU Member States think about the issues. How individual cases are handled when it comes to holding meetings or not is up to the individual Member States.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-400	Madam President, I would like Frans Timmermans, the European Commission's combatable Vice-President, has been exemplary in pointing out that Poland has violated the principles of the rule of law and therefore democracy, which could threaten the European Union fundamentally. During my time as Minister of the European Union, he was my colleague when he was both Minister of Foreign Affairs and of the European Union in Holland. We then raised together questions about how the EU should become tougher against countries that violate human rights. It is important that the citizens of a country can rely on politicians not to rule the courts. The courts shall be independent. Democracy, human rights and the rule of law are interrelated, and they cannot be separated. Let me turn to the case of Poland. We know that the latest debacle in that story was in December 2016. At that time, a new law was passed giving the President of Poland the power to appoint the President of the Constitutional Court. We know once again that no later than two weeks ago Poland once again rejected the recommendations of the European Commission. It has come to my attention that at the next General Council, the GAC, in which EU minister Ann Linde represents Sweden, the issue of Poland will probably come up again. What strategy does the Swedish government have together with wise allies for how to deal with Poland? It is important to maintain a strong stance.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-404	Madam President, I would like This is a question that I work with a lot. I share Birgitta Ohlsson's view on this issue. It is regrettable and worrying that the Polish Government, in its last response of 22 February, once again rejects the Commission's recommendations and says that they are groundless and politically motivated. Timmermans is also personally accused. I and Timmermans, like Birgitta Ohlsson, have a lot of contact on the matter. Sweden supports both the Council of Europe reviews and the Commission's dialogue with Poland within the framework, which is now starting to work better and better after it has been seen as a little redundant for many years. Unfortunately, the dialogue has not led to any concrete progress. Failure by Poland to comply with the Commission's recommendations may lead to the initiation of an Article 7 procedure. It hasn't been beaten yet. It is up to the Commission to propose it. But that can ultimately lead to a Member State losing its right to vote. The government has now, with a number of like-minded people, created a group, Friends of the Rule of Law, to strengthen the principles of the rule of law, democracy and human rights. Unfortunately, only 15 countries are involved so far. It reflects much of the discussion. We have already had discussions in the Council. It is clear that the different Member States have different views on how to deal with these issues. I have been driving matters and have had many talks with Mr Timmermans and with the Maltese Presidency on how to proceed in the process. We have also had bilateral discussions directly with Poland. The Prime Minister last met the Polish Prime Minister.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-410	Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise once again that it is incredibly important to build alliances with countries that are like-minded on this issue and to support like-minded Commissioners. We also know that although the current Commission is somewhat more proactive than the previous one in terms of respect for human rights, it is very much about individuals like Timmermans who put on the leadership shirt. It is important that Sweden is behind his work. I think that this issue must also be highlighted on a larger scale. We know that many countries are knocking on the door of the European Union, and I am indeed a warm friend of the enlargement of the European Union. At the same time, this sends out signals to those countries. If the EU is not clear to its Member States about respecting the fundamental principles of freedom, there is a risk that some other countries will lose the pace of reform. I was going to raise another question here. It concerns the situation in Belarus. At about the same time as the European Council last week, we saw Lukasjenko dictatorship strike against, above all, the political opposition and various civil society activists. Many people were imprisoned and subjected to cruel beatings. Not too long ago, sanctions were lifted against Belarus. We Liberals were against it at the time. We thought it was too early, and we felt that we had not seen enough progress in view of a fraudulent choice and other things. I now wonder whether the EU Minister and the Swedish Government are prepared to think that sanctions should be imposed on a dictatorship such as Belarus, which beats people who want to introduce democracy and freedom.
i-WcELvt4DerTrT3Gvzz89cC	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Ohlsson. I shall begin by commenting on the principles of the rule of law. What is worrying, I think, is that there is almost more demand for a country before it has entered the EU to sign up to the rule of law, democracy and human rights than when it comes in. Then it's like now we're in; then we don't have to follow it so much. It is therefore important that the EU has recently strengthened these instruments. For example, for the first time we made an evaluation in the General Council in November. It wasn't the best discussion I've had, but you start the process anyway. Then I think it is unfortunate that some countries certainly do not want to be involved in this discussion and do not think that the EU should care about it while some other countries are pushing it very hard. Instead of being constructive and moving forward, there will then be confrontation. There are proposals from the European Parliament that are interesting, proposals that we have looked at, which we have not said we fully support but which I have said can be opened up to. These are such things as peer review. As far as developments in Belarus are concerned, the government is following them closely. The freedom of demonstration is absolutely central. I do not need to repeat what Birgitta Ohlsson said about what happened. We assume that the demonstrators who have been arrested will be released. The EU has stated in a statement that Sweden supports the fact that the events of the last few days run counter to the democratisation policy that Belarus has committed itself to pursue and which in turn is a prerequisite for a deeper relationship with the EU.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-421	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our reservation 1. All public power is based on the people, and the Constitution begins in Sweden. However, what is in the law and what is in practice is very different. We know, for example, that 60% of decisions taken at municipal level are indirectly or in many cases directly affected by decisions taken in the EU. Furthermore, many European peoples are not given the opportunity to speak out in referendums on the development of the European Union. If a European people votes in a referendum, it can vote again and again until it votes in accordance with the political establishment. Alternatively, it can be ensured that the people do not have a new opportunity to vote, for example when making constitutional changes. This has happened both in France and in the Netherlands as well as in Sweden. We are seeing today a Europe that is becoming increasingly powerful and that is actively helping to move power further away from national parliaments. This means that every nation state and its peoples have less and less say in matters. More and more power is concentrated instead in unelected bureaucrats. We see it again in these proposals, which come from the European Union. The EU wants to forcibly distribute migrants within the Union and punish the few countries that assumed their responsibilities during the migration crisis in 2015. Hungary, which has been mentioned repeatedly in this House, is one of the countries at risk of being punished. The country should be forced to accept migrants; alternatively, it should be subject to a penalty. This is despite the fact that Hungary was one of the countries that, with a responsible policy, helped to reduce the wave of migrants that washed over Europe during this time. Sweden, too, now wants to take the EU's line of punishing Hungary for this. This is something that we in the Swedish Democrats strongly oppose. We believe that Sweden should run counter to a common asylum distribution system in the EU, which so clearly wants to restrict the power of the nation states further – also in a politically sensitive area. Here in Sweden we have experienced major negative impacts on society at several levels as a result of lax migration policy. This, Madam President, is not something we should impose on any other country. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats want a referendum on Swedish membership of the EU. We believe that this is important and reasonable because the Swedish people were denied the opportunity to vote on the Treaty of Lisbon, for example. The Swedes were not given the opportunity to say no to a treaty that continues to transfer power to the EU. As Sweden's only party that is active opponents of the EU, we believe that as long as Sweden remains a member of the European Union, Sweden should actively combat the integration of more Member States. We have already seen the far-reaching negative consequences when more and more countries join the borderless EU project. We have seen, for example, that arms smuggling, drug smuggling and trafficking in human beings have been facilitated, especially after enlargement to the east. The consequences are seen today in our streets and squares. There is no one in here who can deny it, even if of course there are those who try. We have also seen, as a result of enlargement, that Swedish workers are exposed to low-wage competition and that serious Swedish companies have to compete against foreign companies under completely different conditions than the Swedish ones.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-433	Madam President, I would like I think I will be brief on the matter. The Swedish Democrats, I think, have quite few but very clear priorities in Swedish politics and also in European politics. One important issue for the Swedish Democrats is that the EU levy should be significantly reduced. It marks them in many different ways and in different forums. The Swedish Democrats have also made it clear that they will essentially vote for the Moderates' budget in the forthcoming vote here in the Swedish Parliament. How can it be that the Swedish Democrats are willing to vote for the Moderates' budget at the same time as they want to reduce the EU contribution so significantly? As far as I know, the Moderates do not want to reduce the budget for the EU levy. Another question is about Swexit, on which you are so beautifully speaking. It is also a question of principle for the Swedish Democrats, and it is clear that you do not want to be in the European Union. How, then, can it be important for you to vote for the Moderates' draft budget in the forthcoming budget vote, when the Moderates clearly take a stand to participate in the European Union?
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-440	Madam President, I would like Pyry Niemi is putting in a smudge crawler, claiming that we don't have very many priorities. Pyry Niemi knows that's all wrong. Not least, we have gained growing confidence in rather heavy political areas, such as defence, care for the elderly, crime and so on. So that's just fiction. We are pushing a great many questions and, in fact, we understand, contrary to what you are trying to impose on us, that immigration is not the only problem in Sweden. There are many far-reaching problems – and the EU is, of course, one of the most important. We have some agreements with the European Union. That is the case, and we must respect the agreements we have entered into. Everything else will lower our credibility as an international player. You mentioned Swexit – you can also say Svut, Sweden out of the EU, if you want a Swedish sound in it all. Yes, it is absolutely excellent that we want to leave the European Union. We want to do this through a referendum. It is perfectly reasonable that the people, who have voted in favour of EU membership, should also take the decisive decision to leave the EU. There are many advantages to that. Many people point out that it would be dangerous for Swedish exports if we left the EU, but that is nonsense. For example, as long as we are in the EU, we do not have the opportunity to conclude our own bilateral agreements. Then one might ask why Switzerland and Norway are doing so well outside the EU and why Sweden could not do so. Once again, with regard to the draft budget: agreements entered into are in force. We have not proposed a reduction in the EU levy in our own draft budget, precisely because agreements have to be concluded. Instead, we want to work within the European Parliament, as long as we remain, to reduce the EU levy. Then we want to work in this House and also in the European Parliament to enable a referendum in Sweden to leave the EU.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-446	Madam President, I would like I listened eagerly and interestedly to Jeff Ahls's speech. Consequently, I note that the SD does not want to reduce the EU levy in the Swedish Parliament but claims that the agreements entered into apply. At the same time, I have read that it is essential and important for SD to bring down the EU levy. The only way to do this, even in the Swedish Parliament, is to take a position here, not only within the EU. That is the first question. Then, of course, you are pushing questions, but the European issue has been essential for you, just like migration policy. Yes, the defense is partly involved, but there are not many issues where you have taken a big position. I would like to come back to this question: how can it be that the Swedish democrats are pushing to vote for the Moderates' forthcoming draft budget, even though the Moderates are strongly in favour of membership of the European Union, when it is an essential question for Sweden's democrats that Sweden should leave the European Union?
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-450	Madam President, I would like The main reason why we will vote for the Moderates' budget is that we want to demonstrate bourgeois hypocrisy – that there is no intention of bringing down the present government. It is not that we share some ideological principles with the Moderates. On the contrary, we are very far from them on many issues. Nevertheless, we are a party that is happy to cooperate with others. We have extended our hand to all parties, including the Social Democrats, on various issues, but we always get to call our hand. We think this is a rather immature approach. The main reason why we want to vote for the Moderates' budget is political, so that the Swedish people see how different parties actually act when they are able, for example, to remove the current government. Pyry Niemi is wrong when he says that we do not give priority to other issues. Yes, we do. We understand that immigration is not the whole problem. We understand that Europe is not the whole problem. The fact that immigration and the EU are, in my view and that of my party, two extremely large problems is a fact, but that certainly does not make other issues any less important. It turns out that we are gaining more and more confidence in more issues, and that is, of course, hard for the Social Democrats. It is quite interesting that we have a party which claims to be a workers' party – the party to which Mr Niemi belongs – but which, at the same time, is for the European Union. In fact, there are two of us, as the Left Party's EU line has become quite soft. The EU has posed enormous problems for Swedish workers, with wage dumping and social dumping. We are fighting against this with power. Only yesterday, I spoke to a person working in the garbage industry about the problem of wage competition and wage dumping, which Pyry Niemis's party actively takes a stand for as they are in favour of continued membership of the European Union.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-455	Madam President, I would like I listened to Jeff Ahls's speech. I am always very surprised when I hear the Swedish Democrats talking about Sweden leaving the EU. The EU was created after the Second World War. It is a peace project, a project for democracy, a project for security and a project for development and respect for human rights and the rule of law. The EU has succeeded. European countries that have fought against each other for centuries, not for the benefit of their citizens, have managed to stand united until now. I hope and believe that the countries and citizens of the European Union recognise the importance and importance of continued cooperation within the European Union. We can see from the opinion figures that those who are in favour of the EU are increasing. I see the EU as the cooperation body it is. We have, for example, debated education here before. Young people can train throughout the EU, travel without a visa across the EU and have a labour market across the EU. It is a fantastic development, which has benefited not only the citizens but the whole of Europe. Is this what the Swedish Democrats want to say no to? Is a common opportunity for larger labour markets, reduced unemployment and continued peace something that the Swedish Democrats say no to? Because that's actually what Jeff Ahl is talking about here. Madam President, I would like to have a comment on this.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-460	Madam President, I would like I understand Cederfelt gets upset. The EU is, of course, a dream for all liberals, the category to which the Moderates belong. Now you can finally dump the Swedish workers' wages and say that you work for peace, freedom and all other values while at the same time making sure to destroy the Swedish model. It is absolutely clear why the Moderates are in favour of the EU – there is no doubt about it. If Sweden leaves the EU, we can have bilateral and multilateral agreements with different countries, such as exchanges for studies, trade agreements and other things. There's no limit like that. Furthermore, we can conclude our own agreements without having to involve other countries. The EU is not a peace project. The EU is a project created by bureaucrats for bureaucrats. You deny ordinary people the right to vote, Margareta Cederfelt. You said yourself that we have a large majority for Europe. We never discuss EU issues in Sweden. You on the pro-European side claim that we need to discuss these issues much more, but that never happens. If there is such a large majority in favour, then let us vote in popular vote! Margareta Cederfelt knows, as I do, that when we start discussing these issues and the Swedish people see how negative Europe affects us, opinion will turn around, as it did in Britain. That is why you are afraid to let the Swedish people have the opportunity to say yes or no. It's a big problem, but it's pretty simple. I will have time to quote Martin Schulz, who was previously President of the European Parliament. He has put it this way: It is not the EU philosophy that the crowd can decide its fate. In plain language, this means that the people should not be allowed to decide anything, but that the bureaucrats should do. It is this project, Madam President, that the Moderates, the Social Democrats and, unfortunately, now also the Left Party seem to accept. I find that unacceptable.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-465	Madam President, I would like I'm saddened. Jeff Ahl! Don't tell me what opinions I and the Moderates have! We can do that ourselves. The EU was created after the Second World War – the Coal and Steel Union. It was a peace project. Have EU Member States fought with each other? The answer is no. That is one important foundation. The second important basis is the labour market. Trade unions are behind the EU. Employers' organisations are behind the EU. Trade has increased and the labour market has grown. This is something that has benefited Swedish workers. How can Jeff Ahl deny it? How can Jeff Ahl stand here and say something that is not founded in reality? I find that distressing. Jeff Ahl should base his statements on what applies and not falsify anything with occasional quotes.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-468	Madam President, I would like I should like to begin by commenting on the fact that it is distressing to Margareta Cederfelt that the Moderates do not think it is serious that the former President of the European Parliament has expressed herself in this way. Rather, it confirms what I just claimed about the Moderates. That the other parties then claim things about us seems to be perfectly okay, so I don't know where the level is. There's something I'm extremely disturbed about in Swedish politics, and I've always done that: Democrats don't fight each other – it's a political science fact. The only time that two democracies have gone to war with each other was when Britain declared war on Finland. But there were actually reasons for it. And it was hardly that they fought all the more with each other in practice. It's about democracies not declaring war on each other. It's a political science fact. Europe itself does not have to be such a fact. Look what happened in Greece. Because of the EMU project that the Moderates were behind– they did so at least in the past, but I will honestly say that I do not know how much they have turned on this issue– we have a country in chaos. There are real right-wing extremists on the march in the form of Golden Dawn. This is partly due to Margareta Cederfelt and the Moderates, who have driven the federalist idea of the European Union. Margareta Cederfelt claims I'm lying. I have a lot of friends who work as construction workers, in the haulage industry and so on. I know what I'm talking about. I know what happens in these workplaces. I listen to what they say. It is a fact that the EU has put enormous strain on Swedish workers. That's just the way it is. It's a fact. The fact that trade unions then close their eyes to this is no wonder. They are linked to the largest party in this House. It is clear that the appearance of the EU being good for Swedish workers must be maintained, otherwise it has failed itself. So it's nothing strange.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-475	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Commission's work programme for 2017. I would like to start by saying that my fellow Members, Amineh Kakabaveh, who would have taken this debate, have unfortunately become ill. That's why you'll have to debate with me instead. We in the Left Party support certain parts of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but not all. That is why we have a reservation in this opinion, reservation 2, which I hereby request. I think it is important that we assess Europe on its own merits. We have now heard a number of solemn speeches in the honour of the European Union. But I don't know if there's so much to celebrate. If we look at the economic and social issues in Europe, we see that mass unemployment still prevails. We also see income gaps increasing. What is the EU doing at this point? It deepens and exacerbates the economic and social crisis, calling for austerity and cuts in the Member States. In this work programme we see proposals to deepen the centralisation of economic and monetary union. These are exactly the steps that should not be taken this year. I would like to ask Minister Linde whether this is really in line with the government's policy. If it is not, then ask for a reply to my speech so that we can debate these issues further. We in the Left Party also lack concrete measures against tax evasion and aggressive tax planning in this Commission work programme. Another area in which the EU needs to be critically examined concerns the so-called refugee crisis, which is still acute. Actually, there is no crisis when it comes to refugees. It is rather a crisis of ambition that the EU and its Member States do not assume their responsibilities in a situation where we have more refugees in the world than ever since the Second World War. Again, what is the EU doing at this point? Yes, an extremely dirty agreement is being made with President Erdo an from Turkey, which aims to keep people away from Europe's borders. We have now heard a number of bourgeois politicians who have said that we should be clear with Turkey and Erdo ans repression against minorities, against lawyers who are being thrown into prison, against the opposition party HDP and so on. I would like to put a question to Kerstin Lundgren from the Center Party, Birgitta Ohlsson from the Liberals or Mrs Pethrus from the Christian Democrats – who is still in this House: Is this really to be clear with the Erdo Look at the conclusions of the last summit. There is not a single formulation of criticism of Mr Erdo an, even though the abuse increases day after day. Where are the concrete proposals in the Commission's work programme for legal pathways into Europe? Where are the concrete proposals for the redistribution of refugees between the EU Member States that really work? Where are the concrete proposals for increasing aid to countries outside the EU and for eradicating the causes of this refugee crisis? Where are the concrete proposals to stop arms exports to other countries? It is our European weapons that kill, maim and force people to flee. There it echoes empty in the Commission's work programme.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-487	Madam President, I would like I have a very simple question. Is the Left Party going to work to ensure that we have a referendum on the Swedish EU member ape? Answer yes or no to that!
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-488	Madam President, I would like It is not at all impossible that we will work for a referendum on EU membership in the future. But I think it is important to remember that we had a referendum in Sweden some 20 years ago, and it should be respected. At present, we do not think that we should push for a referendum where we do not know at all what the outcome would be. The only thing you can see is Britain and Brexit, and Brexit has put this country in total chaos. People of foreign origin are persecuted and discriminated against in the UK after this referendum. We in the Left Party do not want such an outcome. That is why it is not a requirement that we are making at the moment. Madam President, I would like I would like to say one more thing that I did not have time for in my speech, because I only had four minutes of speaking time. I think that the committee has carried out a very good review of the Commission's work programme for 2017, and a number of other committees in Parliament have come forward with referrals. But what are we really looking at, and what do we expect this examination to lead to? We cannot change this work programme with a single comma, because it is the Commission's work programme. This, I think, shows a little bit of one of the very clear shortcomings of the European Union, namely the democratic deficit. No matter how many concrete proposals the Swedish Parliament submits to the European Commission, they will not change a single comma, because it is they who decide and who have a monopoly on initiating new laws. I think that's a bad way.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-492	Madam President, I would like At first I thought I had invited Jens Holm to something. But apparently it was only good that he was allowed to continue. Jens Holm mentions that democracy, given the work programme, is in principle under threat. That's what he's saying. Yet, in the Left Party, you are not entirely sure whether you want a referendum on the European Union. That is certainly not surprising. The Left Party has a history of liaising with totalitarian states of various kinds. I can once again say that the Left Party is suffering from the same credibility problems as the Social Democrats. You often claim to represent Swedish workers, which you repeatedly show that you do not. Jens Holm, like me, should know that it is the European project that is the biggest threat to Swedish workers in terms of wage dumping and deteriorating social conditions.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-494	Madam President, I would like The biggest threat to workers is not the EU project, but the Swedish Democrats and the political forces that the Swedish Democrats foment, where people are being pitted against each other. Nothing can be more alien to me and the Left Party than to join such a criticism of the European project.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-496	Madam President, I would like We are now launching the debate on MJU8 Biodiversity. It is a motion report dealing with everything from ivory trade and hunting for seals to predatory policy and genetically modified crops. Despite the fact that this year we have divided up the reports MJU8 on biodiversity and MJU9 on nature conservation, there are over 70 requests to deal with. In my speech, however, I will focus on the reservations supported by the Moderates. Madam President, I would like Living nature and seas with a high biodiversity are required in order for nature to be able to withstand stress without being harmed in the long term. Biodiversity is a prerequisite for ecosystems to function as well as for the ecosystem services that affect us every day and that we use almost every day. In order to maintain well-being and a stable economy, ecosystems need to be in balance. This requires us to maintain a varied landscape with both forest and cultivated land and open pastures where mules can graze. The previous alliance government prioritised reforms to strengthen biodiversity, and I would like to make a few brief strikes there. The Alliance pushed for concrete and ambitious goals at global level in the negotiations on the Convention for Biological Diversity, and thanks to Sweden, among other things, the Nagoya Agreement was a success. The Alliance introduced Sweden's first marine national park in Kosterhavet. A collective grip was taken on predatory policy, which resulted in a bill approved by the Riksdag in 2013. In addition, the Alliance developed a comprehensive strategy for further work on biodiversity and ecosystem services. If the government wants to continue to strengthen its work, it can start with this strategy, where there are concrete measures to achieve the ten milestones related to biodiversity. Madam President, I would like I would particularly like to highlight reservation 4 as a point in today's debate. It is a reservation from the Moderates and Christian Democrats regarding the hunt for cormorants. The bird family cormorant is a natural part of the Swedish fauna. It lives in archipelagos and along the long coast of Sweden. The cormorants are good divers and diligent fishermen. Anyone who has seen an upright bird with outstretched wings on his boat trip has probably seen a cormorant that dries the wings after a successful fishing. The bird family cormorants are also important for several other species in the ecosystems. It provides food for larger eagles, and it provides shelter for the herring pigs nesting in its colonies. It is also a kind of helper when gulls and gulls eat the leftover fish. The scarf, however, is far from unproblematic. The islands where the cormorants breed are under great strain when the cormorants on a large scale are fed from the sea and up on land by their spillage. This leads to clearly changed and deteriorating living conditions for terrestrial organisms. Spilling has a corrosive effect and gives archipelago islands a little skeleton-like appearance with dead trees and non-existent vegetation on the ground. In many parts of the country, the situation is untenable. In addition, the cormorants also have a significant impact on fishing – on the one hand, they eat large quantities of fish, and on the other, they cause damage to gear which must then be fixed or reimbursed at high costs. This should be taken on board by the government. In order to overcome the problems, the search for cormorants should be expanded. In this way, we can also achieve a sustainable level of the stock. That is why I would like to support Amendment No 4. Madam President, I would like The decentralised nature of game management is good and important. It is good that decisions on hunting, game conservation and predator management are made close to the people involved, because that is often where the knowledge is. Today, it is the county administrative boards that have the right to decide on the protection hunt. It is the county administrative boards that decide whether hunters should be allowed to hunt for protection, and it is the county administrative boards that decide whether compensation should be paid for the completed operation. Let me draw the House's attention to one thing in terms of hunting and county boards. Animals rarely care about the organisation of the county administrative board; few wolves cross a county border and think that Axel Oxenstierna still had some good ideas in 1634. This means that the current system sometimes falls short, because today the decision on compensation for the hunter depends on the geographical location where the animal is pushed and not on the original decision. In other words, the system can prevent compensation if the hunter shoots a wolf on the wrong side of the county border during a protective hunt. This is very regrettable. Losing a domestic animal is a strain for farmers, and then, as a hunter – sometimes the hunter and the farmer are the same person – losing compensation for allocated time and outstanding costs does not do much better. It would therefore be desirable for the government to take the initiative to review the rules on compensation for protection hunting in any case, with a view to creating a fairer and perhaps more appropriate system. I know that the government has difficulty reaching agreement on issues relating to hunting and game management – the Minister for Rural Affairs has promised for two years to make proposals to make it easier for disabled hunters to use motor vehicles in hunting – but if the government takes these issues seriously, it is time to get moving. The Moderates are proposing a review of the compensations for protection hunting. Those carrying out protective hunting shall also be reasonably paid. Madam President, I would like Since the 19th century, more than 200 species have disappeared from Sweden. Most of them were not so common in our country, so it has not affected ecosystems very much when they have moved away from here. During the same period, hundreds of new plant and animal species have also been added to the Swedish flora and fauna. Many are nice additions, but others are, so to speak, less pleasant. It is because new species bring new challenges with them. Several of the species that have been found in Sweden in recent decades have no natural enemies here. One example is the American lobster. It is a species originally from the coast of North America. Some fifty of them have since 2008 been fished up on the west coast, and the number of darkness can be great as they live very deep and therefore do not always follow up. It is rather distressing, since American lobster spreads deadly bacterial diseases to the European lobster. Another example is the raccoon dog, which eats large amounts of amphibians and birds. In some places it threatens entire stocks. It is the same here as in many other game management issues – there are tried and tested solutions. For example, the government could bring forward the announcements made last autumn by the Riksdag on wildlife feeding. More about invasive species – such as raccoon dogs and American lobsters, but also king crabs and the cannibal Spanish forest snail – and the suppression of them, the Moderates write in reservation 12. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to draw Members' attention to reservation 16 on GMOs. Technology development permeates society as a whole, and primary and food production will not be excluded. Plant breeding technologies that are constantly being renewed provide the opportunity to reduce the use of fertilisers and plant protection products, while nutrient content can be significantly improved. Modern plant breeding is a question of the future, perhaps particularly with regard to global food security, and the potential that exists in this should be harnessed. However, the most advanced plant breeding – genetic modification of organisms – faces fear due to ignorance. Let me say the following: Swedish decisions on GMOs should be taken on a scientific basis. It is a tradition we have had for a long time, and it is perfectly reasonable that this is the case. It is not the role of politicians to test scientific expertise; if a crop has been assessed as safe, it should also be approved. I would say that the government is faltering on this point is rather worrying. For example, it opposes the approval of crops that have not strengthened their resistance to glyphosate, despite the fact that the crop has been assessed as safe by the European Union's expert authorities and the Swedish Agriculture Agency. I think we need to move in a different direction – quite the opposite. New technologies should be tested and used. In order to speed up the entry of new technologies into production, the trial should also be simplified. A review of the rules on scientific evaluation of new technologies for primary and secondary production should be carried out with a view to proposing regulatory simplifications. In addition, Sweden, like the European Parliament, should push the line that GMOs continue to be regulated and tested at Union level. Individual countries within the European Union should not be allowed to establish barriers to trade with reference to pseudosciences on the dangers of crops. Such an approach would threaten the whole internal market in the long term. That is why I would also like to support Amendment No 16.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-517	Madam President, I would like With regard to report MJU8 Biodiversity, I would like to call for reservation 1 on the nature conservation directives and reservation 11 on economic conditions for protection hunting. Of course, we support all our reservations, but for time-winning, we only ask for their approval. The Species and Habitats Directive, as well as the Birds Directive, have been on the shelves in Brussels for a long time now and need to be dusted off. The conditions have changed over time. For example, since there were no wolf populations when the directive came into being, it was based on a different reality from that we see today. It was important to create a habitat for the few individuals that existed at the time, but today the situation is different. No one could have guessed the concentration of the wolf that exists today in some parts of the country, with the accompanying problems created by a lax predatory policy and an over-bureaucratic legal system on these issues. Forest owners have been refused to harvest their forests in several places because of, for example, lavskrika. It is worrying and has economic consequences, which can mean significant income losses for the individual forest owner. The Swedish Forest Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency have established guidelines for the application of the Species Protection Regulation, but both authorities and forestry want the law to be reviewed. No question in the forestry sector raises more discussion than the application of the Species Protection Regulation. This is a law aimed at protecting certain designated species and their habitats under the EU Nature Conservation Directive. An example of this comes from Värmland and applies to bombshells, which were found on land where a forest owner was not allowed to take down one and a half hectares as he wanted. He would not receive any compensation for this either, but now he was still right in the Mark and Environment Court of Appeal in February. This interpretation of the Species Protection Regulation makes forestry on very large areas impossible. Both the private and socio-economic costs are quite high. Bear hunting can be dangerous. Similarly, it can be dangerous if a bear attacks unreported during elk hunting or other hunting. Should you risk hunting crimes if you have more than two cartridges in the warehouse? This is a law that seems very strange – five cartridges are allowed when hunting a harmless deer, but two cartridges are what applies when hunting a deadly bear. It may also be the case that you shoot and need to put a decisive shot. Shouldn't you be able to do it because you had too few cartridges in the first place? A study from SLU Aqua has investigated vomit from cormorants in an area that stretches from Kalmar across the Åland Sea to Finland. The study shows that recreational fishing takes about 800 tons perch per year, while the cormorants eat about 3 500 tons perch per year. Even grey seal like perch. The study shows that seals eat about the same amount as recreational fishing. In the case of pike, cormorants, seals and recreational fishing approximately equal 700 to 800 tonnes each. The impact of professional fishing on species is considerably less. We in the Swedish Democrats want to see a general hunt for cormorants and a licence hunt for seals, just as traders along the coast wish. It is great that there has now been a regime in which appeals against decisions on hunting for large predators are being tried by one and the same court. This creates continuity. It is also good that decisions on the hunting of wolves may be taken by 1 October at the latest, so that all appeal procedures can be completed before the hunting time begins. The urgency that the government has imposed – that appealed protection and licence hunting should be dealt with promptly with priority in the court – is also good. The question is just how it will work in practice. In order to avoid that the wolf hunt is cancelled, it would be good if a supplement were added to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's regulations that hunting time should be extended if necessary, regardless of whether the regular hunting time is over, i.e. after 15 February. The Swedish democrats have moved on to this. Different county boards pay differently to get protection hunts carried out. In Skåne compensation is promised while the neighbouring county of Kronoberg does not want to pay for the hunt, even though the protection hunt applies to the same wolf. This may seem strange. In Kronoberg it is said that the person applying for the hunt will pay, according to the conservation officer there. The question then is whether all affected animal owners are willing to seek protection if they risk paying for themselves. There are no uniform rules in Sweden for who should pay for protection hunting. The various county boards make their own interpretations. In Västmanland, the County Administrative Board paid all the hunters who carried out the mission. Those who took time off from their jobs or businesses received compensation for loss of earned income. When a wolf in Kronoberg was killed, the hunting leader received compensation, and also dog drivers and searchers were paid. A number of county boards have decided not to pay anything for protection hunting. The principle is that the applicant for the protection hunt also ensures that it is carried out. A hunting leader is appointed, but does he get together hunters to stand up? Maybe it's not always that easy. Is the protection hunt to be carried out for free? Who will carry out the hunt in the event that volunteers cannot be found who want to work for free? That is also a question that should be asked. It is about the rules on how wildlife damage money can be used and what society should do with protection hunts and compensations in the future. One thing that is certain is that the actions of the county administrative boards must be more coherent if there is to be order and order on this problem.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-540	Madam President, I would like When I read through the report on biodiversity and, in particular, some of the reservations of the bourgeois parties and the Sve rige democrats, which include the fact that we should not comply with international conventions, that we should hunt more animals – even if they are threatened – and that we should allow more of the modified organisms, the idea was raised in me that it might be appropriate to discuss why it is important at all to preserve species. Let's compare it to an airplane. A plane consists of thousands of different small parts. I'm not going to go into the details of all these parts, but what we can be pretty sure about is that every part of an airplane is needed. At least I don't think anyone here would be prepared to say that we can remove every tenth part of the aircraft and that it will probably work anyway. If we pass that comparison to nature, it's about the same there. It's all connected. Plankton in the water is eaten by the fish, some fish are hunted by seabirds, some seabirds may be eaten by larger animals and so on. That's what happens in nature. We know that a chain is not stronger than its weakest link, and so is the nature of the species. Everything is connected in a very complex ecosystem. It is therefore important to protect species. Therefore, we cannot take any risks in nature and say: But we go on. V i can surely exterminate that group; if it disappears it will surely do nothing. As the climate changes and it gets warmer on earth, the need for resilient ecosystems grows. They're usually said to be resilient. If we are to have resilient ecosystems, it is precisely about safeguarding the diversity of ecosystems. It is my direct call to the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats not to take any risks here. Do not endanger the diversity of species that we have! It's in a lot of trouble already as it looks now. In Artdatabanken's list of red-listed species, which came two years ago, we can see that there are more and more species that have been red-listed and need some form of protection. Would you bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats really remove the front window in the cockpit or a wing on the aircraft and then be prepared to get in the aircraft? No, I don't think so. Similarly, we should not take any risks in nature. Another important issue, Madam President, in the report is the conservation of species in other countries, specifically elephants, which are also a vulnerable species. Every year tens of thousands of elephants are killed in African countries. They are pushed mainly because you are looking for their ivory. The trade in ivory is very lucrative. It is also said that this trafficking, which is supposed to be illegal, finances criminal terrorist groups such as Al-Shabab and others. As I said, this trade should now be prohibited, but there are certain exceptions. The exceptions, which involve countries such as Botswana, Namibia, South Africa and Zimbabwe being able to sell certain ivory between each other, are used as a loophole and make ivory sales continue to be a large-scale business. Last year, the big CITES summit, the convention regulating the ban on trade in endangered species, was held. I think there were several of us who were hoping for a total ban on ivory trade without exception, but unfortunately that was not the case. To my disappointment, I found that Sweden and the EU were not the driving force for such a total ban either. That is why I think our reservation 14, which just mentions the importance of a total ban on trade in ivory, is so important and would like to conclude by calling for its approval.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-551	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for passing to the bourgeois parties. I feel a little hit. Man is in many ways unique. In addition to using fire and inventing the wheel, we have done a thing that is important and that distinguishes us from many other animals: We have made it out of the food chain. We don't really have to eat other animals, and we don't have to end our lives with someone jumping on us on the savannah, but we can die in a bed surrounded by people who love us. It makes us quite unique. We then have a responsibility to maintain balance in the rest of the animal kingdom. I can agree that there, man may not have had the best track record for the last 200 – 300 years. But we have to agree somewhere that there is a need for a balance in the animal kingdom, as well as in the aircraft likeness of Jens Holm, a special relationship between wings and weight is required for those in the aircraft. Not only should all parts be included, but they should also be of the right size. That is why I think we need to look at the balance of ecosystems and look at whether cormorants in Sweden are really so sustainable. Then I would like to ask Jens Holm a question about what is good and what is natural. It may not be so natural to hunt animals for protection and licensing. At the same time, the question is whether what is good and what is natural is the same. That I would be eaten by a bear may seem quite natural, for there is a risk in nature of being eaten by an animal. But it's not very good. So there is a difference between them. I would like to ask if Jens Holm does not agree that we have a responsibility to maintain a balance in ecosystems. Does that not mean, then, that we need to regulate when we see imbalances?
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-556	Madam President, I would like My brief answer to the question is: Yes, we humans have a particular responsibility in this regard. We have already intervened and intervened in what is, of course, natural, so we have such a responsibility. Me and the Left Party are not in principle opposed to hunting. It felt like between the lines was a bit what the question was about. On the contrary, it can sometimes be important to regulate certain stocks. But what I don't understand is why we should have a relatively large-scale hunt for red-listed and directly threatened species, as the Moderates want, for example on wolf. It cannot be responsible nor can it be in line with our international commitments. We usually want to protect species and endangered animals in other countries. But when it comes to a red-listed species in our own country, the Moderates think you should have a large-scale hunt for it. Why do you think that?
i-VYKCH2k2M4sbL1JPxQTsJU	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the clarification! It was not my intention to put in between the lines that the Left Party is against hunting, but there are still some fundamental issues in which we come to different conclusions on hunting and game conservation. We are two parties that are quite far apart, and that is so to say okay. Jens Holm asks specifically about hunting for wolf. No, we're not going to exterminate the wolf in Sweden. On the other hand, we can be honest that there is a problem when the wolf is domesticated in gardens. Then there is something in the game management that has broken, and then we need to get to grips with it. I would say that it is something typically moderate, if I'm going to make a look perhaps most back, to continuously evaluate, change and propose new policies. We want to solve problems, and if there is a problem with the wolf being domesticated in gardens, we are prepared to look at different solutions to that. On the other hand, we do not want to exterminate the wolf. There is no proposal for free hunting for wolves in Sweden. That is not what we are proposing.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-562	Mr President, I would like to You want a hunting license on a wolf. That's where you differ from the Left Party, which says we're going to have a protection hunt. It is interesting that Jesper Skalberg Karlsson takes that particular example. Protection hunting is just when you're directly attacked. License hunting is what I would call something of a large-scale hunt. You set a target for how many of a species are to be shot and then go out and urge the hunters to do so. I don't think you should do that when it comes to a species threatened. I understand that the Moderates do not want to exterminate the wolf and do not believe that there is a single person in Sweden who pursues such a demand. Unfortunately, however, large-scale hunting can just lead to the preservation of a species being even worse. I would say that is precisely what we are unfortunately seeing.
i-FxiNvotEWP24N4gMyTNfbZ	Mr President, I would like to I support reservations 3 and 4. Wild game management needs to be further decentralised – from European to national level and from national to regional level. The regulatory framework for the protection of valuable habitats and species in the EU should be adapted to the different national conditions. Decisions on the protection of wild animals and endangered species are an issue in which Member States should regain greater decision-making power. This requires flexibility, taking into account the different natural conditions that exist within the Union. Animal or plant species threatened in southern Europe can be numerous in a harmful way in the northern Member States. Licence hunting on wolf, protection hunting on cormorants in archipelago environments, fishing and sales of signal crayfish and hunting of wild boars are examples of issues that should be decided nationally. In this context, I would also like to say that it is extremely inappropriate for the government to want to change the composition of the game management delegations. That would never have happened with an alliance government. It is important that the Wildlife Management Delegations should be the instruments for effective and efficient local management of wild game resources, not a political sandbox. Mr President, I would like to There is a need to change the EU's species and habitats directive. Today, unanimity in the Council of Ministers is required to remove a species from the list of animals that are considered to require careful protection. This has never been done so far. The Christian Democrats believe that a more flexible procedure needs to be introduced to reclassify the threat status of different species as populations grow or shrink. It is also appropriate to include in the Directive the legal rules applicable to the review of decisions which may be affected by the Directive. In practice, it must be possible to organise protection hunting and licence hunting without excessive appeal periods. The Swedish Parliament should therefore announce to the government its view that Sweden should work for an amendment of the species and habitat s directive. Mr President, I would like to Pending possible amendments to the Directive, Sweden may set up an administrative mechanism to speed up the court proceedings. In spring 2016, the Government made changes to the Hunting Regulation in an attempt to create a faster order under current EU directives. However, the process still means that four different bodies can examine a case. Therefore, cases of protection hunting and licence hunting should only be reviewed in a court, which will thus become the last instance. The government should therefore make a proposal for such a mechanism as soon as possible. Mr President, I would like to Bovine attacks on domestic animals and domestic animals can cause considerable economic damage to farmers and lead to great insecurity among many living in predatory areas. The Christian Democrats want it to be possible to pursue an effective protection hunt combined with compensation for those who get their domestic animals grated and killed by predators. None of our Swedish predators are currently endangered. We believe that a continued targeted and selective hunt for wolf is needed and possible without affecting the wolf's favourable conservation status. The financial compensation paid by the State for domestic animals killed by predators needs to be reviewed in order to provide reasonable compensation. At the same time, other measures are needed to minimise predator damage. The large number of wild boars in our country causes large amounts of damage every year. For agriculture it is about SEK 600 million. The farmers pay the highest price when wild boars prune up fields and grasslands with great damage as a result. The farmer receives no support for lost harvest, no money for fences and no compensation for the time that has to be laid off. Wild boars also account for a large number of wildlife accidents in traffic, some 3,000 a year. In the past, it was possible to obtain State compensation for these injuries under the Wildlife Damage Regulation, but it ended in 1995. The Christian Democrats propose that landowners should be able to receive compensation for damage caused by cloven-hoofed game. In total, the Christian Democrats' draft budget means that the allocation for compensation for wild game injuries is increased by SEK 20 million per year. Mr President, I would like to The well-established strains of seals and cormorants in the Baltic Sea have a significant impact on fish stocks. Seats and joints also cause damage to tools, which must be fixed or replaced. This entails additional costs for professional fishing. In addition, large cormorant colonies can cause major damage to vegetation locally. In order to overcome these problems, we believe that the hunt for seals and cormorants should be extended.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-579	Mr President, I would like to I read the Christian Democrats' reservation, No. 8, on predatory policy. According to it, the Christian Democrats want to change the court order for legal proceedings for licence hunting and protection hunting. You say that, as it is now, the risk is obvious that the groupings that do not want to see wolf hunting will continue to be able to thwart the hunt by means of appeals. Do the Christian Democrats not want to be able to appeal against decisions on hunting for wolf?
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-581	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jens Holm for the question. Maybe Jens Holm didn't listen to what I said. It is clear that there must be an opportunity to appeal. But as it is now, in Värmland, for example, the situation is serious. When you're going to start the protection hunt, it's appealed, when you're going to start it again, it's appealed again and so on and you're going nowhere. Who's gonna lose out on this? Yes, those who live under pressure that the wolf harms both domestic animals and other things. That's why we need to get to grips with it. We think it is reasonable to have one instance, not a lot of different ones. But of course you should be able to appeal.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-585	Mr President, I would like to Barely a year ago, changes were made to speed up these processes, but now the Christian Democrats want to change it again. What is still a question mark is one of the reasons for the Christian Democrats. You say that there are groupings that can thwart the hunt by appeal. Is not the whole point of a legal process that someone should be able to say that it was a bad decision that an entire stock should be cut off and therefore they appeal? I think that's a strange motivation. Now Magnus Oscarsson says that it is not about the public not being able to appeal. But I still wonder: why do you use that particular justification?
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-588	Mr President, I would like to If you take part in the debate, you cannot help but hear what has happened in different parts of the country. In Värmland and Dalarna, for example, the hunt has always been postponed due to appeal after appeal. We must find a solution here. Of course you have to appeal. But it is worrying for those who are going into the forest that they are not allowed to shoot because there has been an appeal. It was done better this year, but as Jens Holm knows it has previously been troubling. We must listen to the people who live in those parts of our country where wolf is a major concern for domestic animals being grated. It is problematic that you from Stockholm have opinions about how people in the country should live and work. It is important that we listen and take on board what those who live in these areas and experience these concerns say. What we hear is that it is troubling that the wolf is tearing down domestication and other things. It is therefore important that we take this very seriously.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-591	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Environment and Agriculture MJU8 on Biodiversity. I would like to begin by calling for the report as a whole to be approved and for all motions to be rejected. Biodiversity contains several parts. But what does biodiversity mean? It can be divided into three levels: genetic variation within each species, variation between different species and variation between different ecosystems and habitats. The United Nations Conference in Rio de Janeiro in June 1992 signed the Convention on Biological Diversity by 153 States. Today, 167 States have signed the Convention. This is what we have to deal with, and we shall ensure that we live up to the Convention. Do we? Well, we don't quite. There's more to do. The report deals with many different aspects of biodiversity, ranging from the fact that hunting issues should be decided on at national level to predatory policy, protection of species, combating invasive species and genetically modified organisms. All in all, it contains 70 exercises. I can see that some of the movements are already overplayed or are in progress. For example, we can take the hunting of wolves. We've got it fixed. This year's hunt was done on time, even though it was appealed. With the new order that the government has decided on, there is room and time to make decisions and appeal to the highest court and still have time for the hunt. We saw this this year. I'm very happy with this after years without hunting. It's supposed to be order and order. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Board of Agriculture to prevent wildlife attacks on domestic animals. In addition, the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences has been commissioned to map how attacks by large predators affect the rural economy. The Swedish Board of Agriculture notes that it is difficult to find a single measure that fits all individual cases. There is a constant need for development. But there is also a need for continued dialogue on the consequences for society. In addition, in two budgets, the government has increased the allocation for compensation for wildlife damage. Mr President, I would like to In the case of seal protection, this has been granted on 480 grey seals, 260 chubby seals and 130 viker seals. However, only about 200 grey seals, 170 chubby seals and 80 viker seals were shed, which means that the number that was allowed was not possible. We Social Democrats can envisage a licence hunt in view of the number, but it will be difficult to justify because the seals for which protection hunting has already been granted have not been felled. In 2013, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency assessed that seal hunting can be introduced on condition that it has a clear purpose and that the hunting is included as a tool in the respective management plan and provided that favourable conservation status is ensured. In addition, the Government has commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to develop proposals on how hunting for public water can be simplified in order for more people to be able to hunt and for administration on county boards to be reduced. This is now being prepared in the Government Office. One difficulty in hunting seals is that Sweden no longer has an exception for the sale of seal products and that the sampling of seal hunting is very extensive. This has now been reviewed by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and had introduced changes for the 2016 hunt. It is we people who have a responsibility to balance biodiversity. If we don't, different species can compete out of each other. That is why we Social Democrats think that licence hunting is a good form of administration, whether it be elk, predator or seal. This applies, of course, as long as favourable conservation status is achieved. As far as the cormorants are concerned, it must be held back by various measures for the same reason as I have previously stated. Mr President, I would like to Some exercise is about stopping the spread of invasive species. We in Parliament agree on this. We also agree that the spread of invasive species in Sweden is a major problem. The European Commission has adopted a Union list of 37 invasive alien species of Union importance, requiring coordinated action at Union level. These 37 species must not be changed, cultivated, reared, transported, used or kept. However, if the species are already widely distributed in the country, there is no requirement for extinction, but specific rules apply to them. For the signal crayfish, a national management programme must be developed so that it can be handled based on Swedish conditions so that Swedish fishing of the signal crayfish can continue. The raccoon dog project has been successful. It is now estimated that the population is under control and downwards. However, further methodological development and studies on the impact of raccoon dogs on biodiversity are needed, which is planned for the coming years. All the issues we have talked about today are about biodiversity, which is a prerequisite for the planet's survival and for us to have something to hand over to future generations. In this work we need to help each other. We do this all the time here in Parliament, for example in the Environmental Objectives Committee and through the Energy Commission's proposal, which ultimately also deals with biodiversity.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-605	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report on biodiversity, which is a subject that is close to my heart. I would like to begin by calling for the report as a whole to be approved and for all motions to be rejected. As some speakers have already mentioned, reading the title of the report: Biodiversity is a little perplexing. On the contrary, much is about limiting biodiversity, sometimes pushing or reducing it. I want to give a small historical background to biodiversity or biodiversity. What does this mean? They were defined in the 1992 Rio Convention as follows: Biodiversity is the wealth of living organisms of all origins, including from land-based, marine and other aquatic ecosystems and the ecological complexes into which these organisms are incorporated. One includes diversity within species – thus genetic variation – between species and ecosystems. This whole complex is part of the concept of biodiversity or biodiversity. When I joined the university in the early 2000s and during my later doctoral studies, there was a sense of "biodiversity" in fashion. It was not possible to obtain a single research grant if this had not been included in the applications. I don't know how many times you could press it into one and the same abstract. Today, I think the fashion word is "climate change" or "sea acidification". However, we have the same challenges. Just because the fashion words change does not mean that the challenges for biodiversity have changed. Rather, they have escalated. The now well-known planetary boundaries developed by the Stockholm Resilience Centre and Johan Rockström became known to the general public thanks to Johan Rockström's Summer programme two years ago. There are nine planetary boundaries that must not be crossed, because then the ecosystem can tip, and we do not really know what happens then. Of the nine pillars that are there, it is one that goes far across the border and is ill red. It is precisely biodiversity and the loss of habitats. There is no doubt that it is we humans who are influencing this. Mr President, I would like to Today, in Sweden, about 10 percent of our animals, plants and fungi are so threatened that they are at risk of extinction. The smooth ray, for example, is national extinct. These habitats have been affected by environmental degradation, such as the release of various toxins, but also by the way we live and work, even sometimes when we think we are doing good. Modern agriculture, forestry and fisheries have been rationalised, causing habitats to disappear or shrink. On the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's website, you can read that in terms of biodiversity, diverse rural areas have been replaced by vast and uniform forest areas or fields where only a small number of plants and animals can live. At the same time, regrowing and shrubing of agricultural land has weakened the chances of many species. This reduces many of the species that need a varied landscape. Many of our common species have also decreased in number. In view of this rather gloomy background, I think we should be very pleased with the foresight shown by the European Commission and then the EC in 1992 when the Habitats Directive was adopted, what is commonly referred to as the Species and Habitats Directive. The aim of the Directive is to ensure biodiversity by preserving natural habitats and wild fauna and flora in the EU. Many of these challenges are too great for us as individual countries or areas to be able to cope with them. Doing so in the EU is a major step along the way. Then it was raised in Rio. This followed us when we joined the European Union a few years later. In 2009 came the Birds Directive, which contains rules for birds and their nests and nests. However, despite the fact that both the Species and Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive state that economic, social and cultural needs and local and regional characteristics should be taken into account – which we also do in Sweden; we have, for example, the hunting of wolves – there are many who constantly question this and think that it should be even more regionalised, removed or changed. It is not only us in Sweden who sometimes complain about this, but also from elsewhere. As a result, the European Commission carried out an evaluation which started in 2014. A fitness check was made. Is the purpose of the Species and Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive achieved? Is it cost-effective? Does it work? Is that in line with other EU legislation? All this turned around and turned around. Sweden was one of the countries that was examined particularly hard because we wanted it ourselves. In December, a Commissioner went out with the Commission's evaluation saying that the nature conservation directives are still effective and relevant and will not be opened up for review. Rather, we need to deliver more concrete proposals for nature, people and the economy and for better implementation. It limps in many places. Cooperation will be improved with local authorities and different actors in the Member States. That is exactly what we in Sweden are doing. Then, of course, there can be conflicts between the different areas. Skarv has been raised here. You talk quite generally about the cormorants. There are three different species – or actually two – of which one has two subspecies. There we see that there are some problems. On Friday, a doctoral thesis will be presented which has taken up the joints. It has looked at the diet and seen that local fish stocks can be affected. Perhaps what is being proposed is not just hunting straight up and down. It is not always as it achieves the purpose you want. For example, walking fish, which are often severely affected, can be protected by providing shelters under the surface, nets over water, and laser lights to scare them away. There are a variety of things you can do besides hunting. But then we have a protection hunt, and it turns out to be relevant and good. We also have a seal protection hunt. As you have heard, even the animals that have been granted are not being driven. But we now have favourable conservation status, and after the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's investigation into possible license hunting there is a review of this in the Government Office. We've also talked about invasive species. As Monica Haider said earlier, there is a review there within the EU regulation. Sweden has sent in that we think American lobster should be there. We also have complementary national legislation in preparation within the Government Office. A bill has been announced this six months. So I think we do a lot of things. I also think that today's debate should be much more about how we can strengthen biodiversity rather than try to shrink it. The Green Party and this government have shown that we are serious about biodiversity. We are investing EUR 1 billion in biodiversity, protection of a valuable nature and management of biodiversity. We invest more money in the marine environment and provide more funding to the Artdatabanken and their important work in mapping and informing about biodiversity. We invest more in organic farming and more in environmental monitoring. I hope that next year's debate on biodiversity will include more of those pieces from the opposition as well.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-621	Mr President, I would like to In my previous speech, I tried to strike a cautiously optimistic tone on genetically modified crops. As a moderate, I also believe that primary and food production cannot be protected from technological development and competition, that it is rather good that we have research in this area and that policy should not oppose crops that are demonstrably safe. Unfortunately, I read in ATL from 27 January this year that Sweden, for the first time in fact, is voting against the approval of a GMO crop, in this case a maize variety, despite the fact that the European Union's expert authority, Efsa, regards the crop as safe and despite the fact that the Swedish Board of Agriculture agrees with that assessment.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-624	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jesper Skalberg Karlsson for the question. As far as GMO crops are concerned, we have a small problem because the legislation is outdated rather than the technology, which is constantly moving forward. Now we are no longer talking about genetically modified crops, but about genre-digged crops, where you don't bring in anything. I am not entirely sure which case Jesper Skalberg Karlsson means, but I think it concerns the maize that is resistant to a pesticide that is forbidden to use in Sweden and that is endocrine disrupting. That is why we have chosen to vote against. There is also an agreement that Sweden will say no to the cultivation of crops containing toxins and pesticides that are not allowed in Sweden.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-626	Mr President, I would like to It will be difficult in the long term if Sweden is to depart from the principle that we have had for a long time, that is to say that we listen to our own and the European Union's expert authorities regarding, for example, GMO crops. I was ahead of this debate in the Green Party website to see what it is Emma Nohrén's party specifically thinks and not just what the government's position is. It states, among other things, that it wants all EU agriculture to be organic in the long term. We also see that the government is voting against new GMO crops, although they are demonstrably safe, according to both our own and the European Union authorities. The question will be where food will come from in the long term if we say no to technology development and also only want to grow organically, which gives less harvests. It is sad that the government is leaving the Swedish approach to GMOs. They are actually abandoning a regime that has worked and held over several governments. In addition to violating that agreement, MP was involved and violated budgetary practice in 2013. Are there more approaches and practices that the Green Party is about to leave? Are you heading in the direction of the Left Party and are you going to leave the fiscal framework? Are there other things we should be looking out for in the future?
i-75TsKgNUNQVRSY7PJgKvGi	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for those questions, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson! When we look at genetically modified crops, GMOs, there is common legislation within the EU on how to handle them. It should take account of socio-economic effects, seed management in the country where the product is produced, how it hits the market and all that. It's not just about how safe it is to eat and handle. There we can sometimes feel different from other parties, such as your own, and see that, for example, the socio-economic effects in the home country are hitting hard. We also see that there are very rarely long studies. Most days are 90 when you look at the hazard and how it affects the organisms in the soil. Crops that are developed to be with a pesticide, a pesticide, also cause major problems. It is used, but it also causes resistance problems. There is a risk that it may spread to indigenous crops via pollen. This applies, for example, to maize if there is wild maize, and so on. We see a lot of other dangers about how safe it is to eat. Then, with the latest technologies, it has become a plethora of other uses and much easier to deal with GMOs. Now we talk more about genre editing techniques and so on. There we see that EU legislation is outdated and that it would have to go further and arrive at a regime that looks at how dangerous the crop is rather than at what technology it has arrived at.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-633	Mr President, I would like to Today we are discussing biodiversity. It is easy to be a bit solemn when discussing biodiversity. It is a fundamental survival issue to be able to preserve and protect biodiversity. It can be said that biodiversity has its own value in the sense that we find it difficult to grasp or really do not have knowledge of the whole spectrum of biodiversity and its value in ecosystems. It also has the value of taking so-called ecosystem services out of the system, which we all have plenty of. It has also been mentioned in the debate, and I think it is worth highlighting again, that rich biodiversity is the greatest guarantee we have for ecosystems to adapt to the unfortunately inevitable climate change that we have ahead of us. This is also an important point in this context. When it comes to preserving and protecting biodiversity, it is very much about long-term and sustainable management, where there is a balance between conservation and management. When you read the report, you see that it is possible to apply more or less all the headings today. I think we are all aware that more and more species are at risk of extinction. Strong legislation, information, biotopes protection and so on are needed to protect and preserve biodiversity. Artdatabanken's work should also be highlighted as very important t. As far as protection is concerned, it will be linked to the next debate when we talk about nature conservation and site protection in perhaps a few hours. This goes hand in hand. Mr President, I would like to Another point I would like to highlight is the biodiversity that we maintain in the agricultural landscape through environmental compensation and the Rural Programme. It creates the conditions for sustainable food production while laying the foundations for open landscapes and the biodiversity that it creates. It is about both natural and cultural values, and so on. It can be pointed out, however, that it is a little strange that it was precisely those payments that were made during this period that were depriorityd in the payment of aid to agriculture. They're incredibly important to keep. You know very well that we on the liberal side are not so much in favour of subsidies and aid in production. However, we fully support the environmental compensation for public goods. Mr President, I would like to There is a bill called Enlargement of Tiveden National Park, which has been formally linked to the next debate. There's a section that doesn't show up that much of the title, or I wouldn't say at all. It is about the EU's conservation directives and the hunting of wolves. It's a little hard to read it when you're just reading the front page. Although it is linked to the next debate, I think it has so much to do with this that I dare to refer to it. When it comes first to the nature conservation directives, whatever we think and think, we must relate to the message we have received from the Commissioner: that the nature conservation directives will not be opened up for review. The Commission considers, as I have said, that they are still relevant and appropriate. It is also important to bear in mind that, at the same time, the Commission stresses that implementation needs to be improved in close cooperation with local authorities and other actors in the Member States. There is flexibility in the directives which we may not use all the time. Unfortunately, the wording that the government does in this proposal can be perceived as a little passive. It is simply stated that there is no more to be done from the Swedish side to change the classification of endangered species in the nature conservation directives. Well, I guess that's the right thing to do. However, from my side and the Liberals' side, we really want to call on the government to take up the opportunity to develop implementation based on possible national space. There is a national space and, of course, it should be used because the question of the future of the directives is settled. Mr President, I would like to This is precisely what we think from the liberal side, using the national space, can be clearly linked to the discussion we are having today on the management of cormorants and seals and also on predatory policy. It's always up to date. The committee also notes that the Commission encourages the Member States to make use of the flexibility contained, after all, in the Birds Directive, for example. As far as cormorants are concerned, we should, of course, make as much use of this as possible. I know that at the beginning of the debate, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson pointed out that it is a threat to, among other things, local fish stocks. There is no doubt about it that way. In many places cormorants have become a direct plague. The flexibility that exists will certainly be used as far as possible. Mr President, I would like to As regards predator management, an important decision was made in 2013 under the alliance government when the administration was further regionalised as the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was given the right to delegate decisions on protection or licensing hunting to the County Administrative Board. The central point of this was that it was possible to move decisions closer to the people who are directly involved in their everyday lives, and we think that is a good thing. This fact of having a close dialogue with all concerned, both individuals and stakeholder organisations, is incredibly important for acceptance and legitimacy of a regulatory framework. This is not least crucial for the proper management of predators. When we discussed the report last time, if I remember correctly, we ended up in the fact that, however we do the review process, it must be effective and effective in order to have proper management. The appeal process must not in itself become an element 22 in the whole. The specialisation that has now taken place means that the cases are decided – and also quickly, as it is called – in the Administrative Court in Luleå and is apparently a good way to go. Looking at the outcome of this year's decision-making and appeal process, it is clear that it has worked according to the planned time standards and timeframes that exist. At present, it is really important to follow up that the system continues to work, and it is likely that it will be able to do so. We think that is basically a good thing.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-649	Mr President, I would like to In recent years, wildlife trade has reached record levels. According to the World Wildlife Fund, WWF, the demand for wildlife products has exploded. Demand concerns to a large extent material from endangered animals such as rhino horn, lion and tiger skins, exclusive wood, snakeskin and ivory. Every year around 30,000 elephants are shot illegally in Africa. The illegal hunt has increased disastrously and has led to a sharp decline in African elephants, savannah and forest elephants in recent years. The worst is the situation in Zimbabwe and Tanzania. In Tanzania alone 15 000 elephants were poached last year, and the elephant tribe has been more than halved since 2009. The African elephant coalition AEC, a cooperation between 29 African states, believes that at the present rate there is a risk that the elephant will be exterminated within 25 years. The reason for the illegal hunt is the increasing demand for ivory, especially in Asia. This applies to China and Vietnam with several countries. Items in ivory mean status, and elephant tusks are worth their weight in gold. The annual trade in the 30,000 elephants is valued at SEK 50 billion. Although the local poacher receives only a small shard of this, it is enough incentive to poach and kill both elephants and their human guards. To get to the illegal hunt, several things need to be done in the countries where elephants live. It is about increasing guarding and working with the attitude of local people to elephants, who often see animals both as competitors for pasture and as pests. It is also a question of anti-corruption measures. Mr President, I would like to However, many believe that an international decision must also be taken to tighten up the ban on trade in ivory in the world. Today's ban on trade between countries provides Botswana, Namibia, South Africa and Zimbabwe with certain exemptions to trade in ivory. Trade in ivory within countries is also permitted in these countries. This and the four countries' backlogs are helping to make ivory consumption more socially acceptable in the world and allowed to increase. Thieves hunted ivory also leave Africa under the guise of legality. At the Cite Conference in Johannesburg, Kenya and other AEC states, as Jens Holm has already told us, supported, among others, by Botswana, which has the largest elephant population in Africa, for a stronger protection of African elephants. They wanted a stronger ban on ivory trade. It was also supported by The International Union for Conservation of Nature, UCNA. It is the world's oldest conservation organisation with more than 1,300 members from 160 countries. However, the proposal was rejected. Among others, the 28 EU countries voted against the proposal. I believe that the European Union ended up on the wrong side of the vote. I also believe, in accordance with my motion under discussion in the report, that Sweden and the EU must take a stronger position in favour of an international total ban on ivory trade in order to save the African elephant from extinction.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-656	Mr President, I would like to Environmental and climate policy is one of our most important challenges. Our generation, the one that lives today, is the first to be able to eradicate poverty and the last one that can seriously tackle climate change before its effects become too disastrous for our planet. This requires a policy with both ambition and will, both at home and globally. The Social Democrats and the government take the challenge seriously. The overall environmental and climate policy is and remains one of our most important policy areas to be addressed. The budget proposal for 2017 proposes the largest investment budget on climate and environmental issues in Sweden's history, and our overall ambitions are thus also high internationally. I am proud to belong to a party and be represented by a government that makes clear investments in climate and the environment. This takes the form of efforts for climate-smart solutions while protecting biodiversity and the forest our children will one day walk in. At the same time, the goal of a non-toxic environment for future generations is also solid. Today we are debating the Environment and Agriculture Committee's reports 9, 16 and 17 on nature conservation and protection and on the extension of Tiveden and Björnland. It is about national parks, nature reserves, beach protection, alleman rights and a lot of other things. Mr President, I would like to Biodiversity, which we discussed earlier here today, is of central importance. Clean water and clean air depend on our ecosystems being able to produce what we need. And for ecosystems to be stable, the diversity of species is needed. All species depend on water. That is why the water in our nature is extremely important. Most of our watercourses are found in the forest and house a swarm of life. Our wetlands provide many ecosystem services, such as sequestering and storing carbon dioxide, purifying water, serving as flood protection and providing biological production. Damaged wetlands are less able to deliver these essential services. Many animals and plants that live in wetlands are on the so-called red list and are in need of action and consideration. The extinction of species, which has been going on for many years now, is serious. This is also a global concern. We therefore have a responsibility to look after our common nature wisely and reasonably. By investing in nature conservation, more natural forests can be protected and more marine reserves created. Care of nature reserves and hiking trails are included. The protection of marine areas and fish species can thus be reinforced. The efforts we have made to manage nature reserves, which we continue to make during this term of office, mean several steps forward. The former, bourgeois, government for many years allowed the sum of such care to remain still, even though the number of nature reserves increased. If you look at the total expenditure area No 20 on general environmental and nature protection, you will notice quite quickly that all the bourgeois parties, including the Swedish Democrats, want to reduce the appropriations by around 2 – 3 billion. Who seriously believes that it will make the environment better? Instead, our government chooses efforts over cuts. This means not only improving the management of nature, but also creating more jobs and jobs, not least in rural areas. Mr President, I would like to As we know, the situation of our seas is serious. At international level, Sweden, together with Fiji, has initiated the major international maritime conference that will take place later this year. It is the largest conference at international level since the legendary Stockholm Conference in 1972, and it is not bad. The conference brings together a number of decision-makers to discuss the situation in our seas and not least the microplastics that plague the marine environment. But we also know that overfishing is a major problem in many places. Here in Sweden, the government is working hard to get a representative, well-connected, well-managed and functional network of protected marine areas covering at least 10 per cent of Sweden's marine areas by 2020. Sweden already achieves the area target of 10% marine protection through decisions taken in the past. However, more measures will need to be taken to ensure that marine site protection is also representative and functional. This means that it will cover all habitat types and environments as well as species in a coherent network. It will require resources as well, and there too the allocation for measures for the marine and aquatic environment has already been strengthened. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish beach protection is unique in an international perspective together with the right of public access. Beach protection rules create the conditions for public access to nature experiences and for the conservation of biodiversity in coastal areas. At the same time, there is also flexibility in the rules to promote rural development and local decision-making. Strand protection rules have changed in recent years in a number of steps. In 2009, amendments were decided to extend the scope for exemption and repeal of the protection of shores with a view to facilitating lake-based construction and rural housing. The changes also increased local and regional influence over beach protection. In June 2014, the Riksdag decided on further relaxation of the beach protection that would increase the possibility of settlements next to small lakes and streams. The changes mean that the County Administrative Board has the possibility to suspend the protection of the shores of small lakes and watercourses if the area to which the suspension relates is deemed to be of little importance for the purpose of beach protection. These changes entered into force as late as 1 September 2014. As far as we are concerned, it is important that the impact of the rules can be evaluated, and that work is now under way. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has analysed the review made by the extended beach protection. It clearly shows that we have had a total reduction in the area protected by the sea. Any changes to beach protection must therefore be balanced and with thought. Mr President, I would like to We also have to consider two extensions of Tivedens and Björnlandets national parks located in Laxå and Karlsborg municipalities in Örebro and Västra Götaland County and in Åsele Municipality in Västerbotten County. This proposal follows the 2008 National Park Plan of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and in both cases all land covered by the extensions is owned by the State. These are important enlargements, and I am, for my part, pleased that we are now going to achieve this in broad political agreement so that we can take a decision on it later. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats value the nature in which future generations will live. We are now making a difference with our policies. We have a proud tradition in our party of working precisely with sustainable development, both ecological, environmental and social and economic. A policy that allows you to live in a society that is environmentally friendly and at the same time has growth that is also distributed wisely is the best policy, we believe. Finally, we would like to endorse our Amendment No 6 on the reform of coastal protection. Otherwise, we would like to support the reports on nature conservation and site protection and the extension of the Tiveden National Park and the Björnland National Park.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-671	Mr President, I would like to This report covers almost 80 requests for exercise. It's a pretty diger lunta, even though we've divided this into two parts. But for time to come, I will not debate the motions one by one, but instead focus on what separates government policy from Moderate politics and the Alliance's proposals. I would like to say that the big difference is ownership. It is a fundamental right in a liberal democracy like Sweden. I would like to start by looking at it. At my house, there's a bench in the garden. It is not the finest or most expensive bench you can buy, but it does its part: It gives me support sometimes. Every three years it needs a little care. You have to scrape off some old paint and splash on a dash of new. With the rather narrow work effort, the bench has held for almost ten years and will probably last another ten years. Here outside the Riksdag is another bench. It's scratchy and worn out, and someone has scratched their name. Although it is basically the same bench as the one at my home, it may have to be replaced in just a few years. What, then, is the difference between my bench and the one standing outside? Yes, the bench at home in my garden I own. I care about it, because what you own you care about. The bench outside is owned by all of us together, but almost no one cares about it. Similar tragedies with the jointly owned or non-owned exist in many areas. Therefore, the confiscation of land should not be done lightly, but only when it is well-motivated. It should be borne in mind that land used by the individual is often more useful than set-aside land. Mr President, I would like to Area protection is increasing. In recent decades, for example, the number of areas marked as national interests has increased steadily. At the same time, many national interests are no longer present or lack clearly described values. SKL wrote in a report in 2012 that the processes surrounding the designation and description of national interests have failed. The descriptions are so vague and outdated today that they do not serve as a basis for community planning. The very concept of national interest is worth much to my eyes but has unfortunately been eroded and lost much of its meaning. At the same time, we see that national interests threaten other interests that Sweden has as a country. In a study from the Swedish National Audit Office in 2013, 60 per cent of municipalities with housing shortages say that the government's handling of national interests has prevented new housing at least once in the last three years. Often municipalities and the construction industry refrain from even starting work for new housing in areas where national interests apply. The risk of getting caught up in long and expensive processes with the county boards is simply too great, and the national interests are many – more than half of our country is made up of national interests. The designation of an area of national interest today has no actual due date. The municipalities testify that outdated areas of national interest cause problems in the planning process. An area that is formally of national interest today may also have been given a completely different character than it had 20 years ago when it was pointed out, which undermines trust. Another area protection that is spreading is Natura 2000 sites, which are becoming more numerous. In my county of Gotland, we have received almost 10 000 hectares of Natura 2000 sites only in the last three years. There are plans at the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to announce more than 2,000 hectares on Gotland before this term of office is over. It's a little difficult this. I realize that. For those who are not familiar with the way nature conservation works, I can say that Natura 2000 is a European area protection, often with reference to the Species and Habitats Directive. The European Commission proposes to individual countries to protect specific species and environments. In Sweden, it is usually the County Administrative Board that takes stock and sends the information to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency then sends the information to the Government, and the Government then, after a review, reports the areas to the European Commission, which formally announces Natura 2000 sites. That sounds simple, doesn't it? Yeah, maybe a little. If you compare with many other parts of Swedish bureaucracy, it is in any case a fairly straight chain. However, there are also clear problems with the Natura 2000 network. I would like to discuss them today. Firstly, it is impossible to review a decision on Natura 2000 in Swedish courts once the government has notified the site to the European Commission. It is rather problematic, I mean, not least from the point of view of legal certainty. Therefore, I notified the KU in 2016 the government's handling of this. Because we've never done this before. It is therefore constitutionally interesting to look at practice. Should a Swedish government be able to use the European Commission as a lever to introduce nature conservation areas that cannot be appealed? Secondly, Natura 2000 is forever. There is no process in Sweden to reconsider a Natura 2000 site – even if the species you want to protect has moved or died out. It also risks undermining confidence in Natura 2000 in the long term. Thirdly, in many cases it is difficult to see the direct benefits. Natura 2000 must not be used. In Sweden, for example, wind turbines must not be installed in a Natura 2000, which you get in Germany, for example. As far as management is concerned, I have doubts as to whether the responsible authorities have the resources to cut and maintain a good standard in the areas. The previous owner – often a private landowner – can simply stand by and watch. It is boring, especially when we know that forest owners in Sweden are doing an enormous amount of voluntary work. In addition, in my home country, I have doubts as to how the designated Natura 2000 sites differ from the surrounding nature. In some cases it is obviously justified to introduce Natura 2000. We will have a strong nature protection in Sweden for what is worth protecting. But when an area is linked to Natura 2000 on the grounds that there have been wooded pastures, I become a bit curious. Most of the area on Gotland has been grazed at some point in the last 300 years. And the land that has been naturally grazed is kept open by the landowner. Will the government maintain the same standard of care when taking over? If we are to see it from a perspective of biodiversity – it is quite close, and we debated it just now – it is clear that regrowth affects the habitat and gives changed, in some cases deteriorating, conditions. In a situation where 25 per cent of all forests in Sweden are excluded from forestry, over 50 per cent of the country is covered by national interests and the number of Natura 2000 sites is increasing without being re-examined, there is reason to consider whether the systems meet their respective objectives and whether they together contribute to a balance between nature conservation and man's creative power. I would say that at present it is doubtful whether all those systems are doing so. Mr President, I would like to Other land areas where ownership is often eliminated are beaches and beachfront locations. There are two objectives of beach protection: firstly, to ensure long-term conditions for access to beach areas on the basis of public access rights and, secondly, to preserve good living conditions for animal and plant life, both on land and in water. In general, the beach shelter in Sweden applies 100 meters inland and equally far out into the water. But the protection can also be extended by special decision, to 300 meters in each direction. Over the past few years, we have tried to lighten, rub and re-examine parts of the beach shelter. This has been done with rather broad political agreement, but the beach protection has not decreased, but rather increased – despite a political ambition for more flexible beach protection that allows for more housing construction. The reasons for relaxing today's beach protection rules are many. The first and strongest thing I think is that we need to be able to build close to the beach in order for Sweden's rural municipalities to be able to create living environments in attractive natural areas. In sparsely populated municipalities it is often difficult to make construction projects pay, as construction costs often exceed market values. In addition, more mixed areas can be more easily established if there is generally cheap land from the outset, but if it is at the same time possible to create certain attractive locations, for example by exemptions from beach protection. The application of the legislation is rather problematic. It is therefore gratifying that the committee is proposing an announcement to the government. I would like to end, however, by raising the finger of warning. The announcements from the Riksdag regarding the reform of beach protection are becoming quite numerous. We've left several of them in the last year alone. Does the government care about Parliament's announcements? It feels like we are approaching a situation where Parliament will have to move forward with sharp legislative proposals. I am not sure whether the government is aware that this is where we are going, because of their choice-driven handling of the Parliament's will. Mr President, I would like to In my speech, I have gone into what the Moderates think is a priority when it comes to MJU9 Nature conservation and site protection. I have spoken about property rights, national laws of interest, Natura 2000 and the protection of the shore. You can read about it in the moderate reservations. I agree with all the reservations, but for the winning time, I am in favour of reservation 8 only.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-698	Mr President, I would like to Then we have heard the speech of the Moderate Member, Mrs Skalberg Karlsson. There was a lot of focus on ownership. It is also an important issue. But the environment, concern for the environment and biodiversity were a little lighted by their absence. In my speech, I mentioned that I am proud that the government can present the historically largest investment budget for climate and the environment. When I look at the appropriations for Category 20, I see that the Moderates are engaged in slaughter– although we are not discussing agriculture and agriculture, let me still use that concept in this context. A total of EUR 355 million is being cut for measures for valuable nature, with EUR 590 million for the protection of valuable nature and between 10 and 11 million for the Agency for Marine and Water Management. I would like to ask Jesper Skalberg Karlsson: Do you not see the challenges we have on the environmental side, in terms of the protection of biodiversity and so on? Do you seriously believe that cutting that much on the environmental budget will make things better for the environment?
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-701	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Johan Büser for the question. Johan Büser points out what I am referring to in my speech; we have different views on property rights and on what things are for. A government that makes proposals on bank tax, aviation tax, manure tax – a series of taxes that affect people living in rural areas and near the areas that the government says it wants to protect – also has more money to spend. If you raise more money, you can also have higher expenditure items. But is it reasonable for billions to be raised and millions invested? The major item in the government budget is not really the environmental item. Of course it's growing something. But since the population in Sweden is getting bigger and more people are working, there are also larger pieces of cake to distribute. I think that's good. They say it's the biggest investment budget ever. But I'm also older than I've ever been. Things have their course. As far as the environmental budget is concerned, it is clear that if you raise taxes by billions, you can invest millions. I won't argue with that. But we have chosen a different direction.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-707	Mr President, I would like to Another current issue is how to address global climate challenges. I think there are quite a few of us walking around with that lump in our stomach when we see that people like Trump reap success and that the Swedish Democrats are growing. Their parties are, by the way, climate sceptics. When you compare the budget for these appropriations, you are dangerously close to the Swedish Democrats, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson. You want to reduce the total appropriations for Category 20 by 2.1 billion. The Swedish Democrats want to cut by 2.2 billion. Your party leader Anna Kinberg Batra has announced that you will start working with or at least start talking with the Swedish Democrats in the municipalities and nationally. She mentioned the noise issue as an example of an area where we can start to work together. Does Skalberg Karlsson see environmental and climate issues as an area where the Moderates can also start working with the Swedish Democrats?
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-710	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it may be that the draft budget of the Swedish Democrats is similar to that of the Moderates. It's probably the idea when you copy something, that it should be like the original. With regard to the issues to be discussed, it is clear that we in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture are quite pragmatic. We call for the approval of proposals even if they come from other parties. Only in the last month have I seen joint claims from the Left Party and the Moderates. Sometimes the Swedish Democrats have joint claims with the Center Party. Maybe it's not that strange. If you have the social challenge as the biggest opponent and not as the biggest cane horse that you think about who will support your proposal, yes, then that is the case sometimes. I have nothing more to say about it than that it is good if more people support moderate politics. It is a good policy, and it would be good for Sweden if it were to introduce simpler rules on new construction. It would be good for Sweden if we had more up-to-date noise requirements, now that we have triple glazing, something we did not have when those rules were introduced. When it comes to talking with the other parties, I think we are a rather pragmatic committee. Sometimes it becomes odd constellations. Sometimes the Social Democrats even agree with the Moderates. It seems Johan Büser has no problem with that. That is my comment on this.
i-NHcGMUHhjPFD3vJdBMv9W7	Mr President, I would like to With regard to report MJU 9 Nature conservation and protection, I would first of all like to call for the approval of reservation 12 Right of Public Access and the occupation of private land. With regard to MJU 16 Extension of the Tiveden National Park, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation No 1 The aims and provisions of the Park in order to ensure the objectives. But of course we support all the reservations of the Swedish Democrats. Mr President, I would like to The government's chapter on fundamental rights states that everyone should have access to nature according to the right of public access. Since 1994, the right of public access has been enshrined in our constitution. It is clear from the form of government that everyone must have access to nature according to the right of public access, and environmental legislation states that everyone who uses the right of public access or resides in nature must show consideration and caution. Alleman's right is not a regular law, however, but a customary law dating back to the Middle Ages, and it is part of our common cultural heritage. The right of public access gives the right to pick berries or camp at least one night without asking the landowner for permission. The purpose of the right of public access has been to guarantee our common access to nature, not that individual traders should be able to enrich themselves on it. In order for this customary right to continue, both rights and obligations must be respected. The public should always be welcome in the land, but everyone must behave with regard to and respect for nature and the interests of the landowner. When the right of public access is exercised under responsibility, it generally does not pose any significant inconvenience to the owner and user of land. Mr President, I would like to Real estate owners who turn to the authorities for help to get their land back and get rid of people who illegally settle on their land in illegal settlements are often given the answer that this is not a police matter but a question of eviction for the royal court. The most natural thing would be for society to act forcefully against all illegal occupiers. However, the authorities tend to face up to the problem of landowners who have been deprived of their ownership through illegal tent camps and shantytowns. The property owner is forced to bear considerable costs in order to remove such camps through the agency of the Kronofogdemyndigheten. In addition, it is the property owner's own responsibility to establish the identity of all residents of an illegal residence in order for them to be evicted. It's very strange, you might think. In addition, in addition to the application fees for each person to be evicted, there are often significant costs of cleaning up and restoring the land. Local authorities are also affected by illegal settlements that generate unforeseen costs and use resources from their core activities. For a municipality it also tends to be repeated costs when occupiers often move their illegal settlement to a new place instead of completely ceasing to occupy land. Against this background, the process of eviction of illegal occupiers must be simplified, and the possible cost of eviction must reasonably be borne by those who are demonstrably committing illegality, not the vulnerable landowner. Nor do the Swedish democrats believe that the guardian should be responsible for these issues, but responsibility should lie directly with the police. Furthermore, we believe that there can never be a so-called right of possession in these cases. The police should also be able to remove occupiers living in illegal settlements at any time without any specific requirement for identification or documentation. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's beaches are a natural asset of great value. The beaches along lakes and streams as well as the beaches along the coasts and archipelagos are very important for the public and for the plant and animal life that depends on aquatic environments. The general beach protection of 100 metres from the shore is applicable to all Swedish beaches by the sea, lakes and streams of any size. The rules apply both in urban areas and in sparsely populated areas, regardless of whether there are quantities of lakes and streams in the area and regardless of the nature or species present in the environment in question. New rules for beach protection came into force on 1 September 2014, and they gave the county administrative boards the opportunity to suspend the protection of the shores of small lakes and watercourses, if the area to which the suspension relates is of little importance in order to meet the objectives of beach protection. Contrary to the intentions, the county administrative boards in many parts of the country have decided on extended beach protection. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency observed during a review that there were large areas with extended beach protection that lacked clear motives. Nevertheless, some county boards have chosen to continue to pursue the issue by proposing an extension of the beach protection of up to 300 metres. This risks leading to negative consequences for both the agricultural and tourism industries, and it also affects the ability of municipalities to attract new residents by offering attractive beachfront residential plots. The Swedish Democrats want beach protection to be changed so that the power of the municipalities is strengthened and the county boards' ability to overtest municipal building permits in beach protection locations is limited. We also argue that 100 metres of beach protection, along with the right of public access and other forms of protection, is quite sufficient. Mr President, I would like to On Monday, the radio programme Vetenskapsradion told us that the principle of free development in nature reserves proved to be devastating after the storm Gudrun. After the storm twelve years ago, a lot of forest was blown down into the nature reserve, and thousands of windy fir trees remained in Växjö. It became a breeding ground for the spruce bark, which attacked forest in and outside the reserves.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-738	Until last year the forest was closed because it was too dangerous to enter the reserve because of all the dead trees that could fall down. Under the current provisions of the Tiveden National Park, there is no right to fell or otherwise damage living or dead trees or shrubs, to erect wind traps or to take any forestry or forestry measure. There is a great risk when forestry is banned in the national park that pest infestations in the forest are increasing, for example after stormfalls, and then they spread to adjacent properties. We therefore believe that it should be stated in the management regulations that the forest should be managed in accordance with current legislation, in particular the Forest Protection Act. Sveaskog has recently decided to create buffer forests of nearly 2,000 hectares around Tiveden National Park. There is a risk that such initiatives will become the norm, with the decrees of authorities and the public to create so-called buffer forests, such as around communities, national parks, nature reserves and other areas that can be considered as having social value. We in the Swedish Democrats are therefore opposed to this development.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-743	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Committee on Environment and Agriculture's report on conservation and protection of the countryside. As an environmental party, I would very much have liked the motions we are now debating to have been about strengthening nature conservation and protecting more natural areas. But that is not the case at all. Instead, the majority of the motions submitted by the bourgeois opposition in connection with the report are about removing the protection of important natural areas – land that is particularly important for animal and plant life and for us humans. We are debating today, once again, the protection of the shore. I would like to take this opportunity to remind us all why former MPs in Sweden once decided that the beaches would be accessible to everyone, not just some. In fact, as early as 1936, Members Andersson and Gustafsson highlighted the problem of rapid progress in the exploitation of the beaches. I was going to quote them: affluent city dwellers take possession of almost all scenic areas, as bordering the sea, lakes and watercourses. Miltons from the city thus become the beach areas transformed into plots and parks in private possession. Hundreds of thousands of people living in cities and urban communities become in this way, even though they live near seas and lakes, deprived of opportunities for outdoor swimming and recreation within reasonable distance of their place of residence. ..................................................... The subsequent Leisure Investigation, which issued its final report in 1938, deepened what was happening and proposed measures. The members of the Committee felt, inter alia, that our beaches should be regarded as an important national asset for the whole people, whose preservation in its original state for both social and other reasons should be sought. The leisure inquiry is interesting and impressive reading. It is impressive because there is a great insight into what would happen if it did not stop buildings on the beaches, and it is interesting because it was so thorough. For example, by collecting comments from all counties, it was concluded that the increase in beach settlements was a cause for concern in almost the whole country. But, Mr President, as we all know, there was a war, and only in 1950 did the first Beach Act come. At the time, the county administrative boards were commissioned to designate the areas where beach protection would apply. This was done to ensure access to places of bathing and outdoor recreation for the general public. However, this legislation proved insufficient to halt the large expansion of free-time residences in the 1960s and 1970s. The Parliament therefore decided in 1975 on a general ban on building beaches, both on the coast and in the hinterland. The sharpening was, and is, linked to an opportunity to apply for a derogation. In 1994, a legislative amendment extended the purpose of beach protection to cover plant and animal life as well. Then we would have had an environmental movement, and a knowledge of the importance of the beaches, not only for people but also for plants and animals, would have found its way into this House and into legislation. It's been over 20 years. Now it is time for us as politicians today to take the next step. Mr President, I would like to We should be grateful that former MPs have been concerned about beach protection for another reason. The fact that we have not built the beaches, as in the rest of Europe, means that, in addition to a more living animal and plant life and accessible beaches, we will also have less problems with theslides and floods that are increasing as a result of climate change. It will reduce both future problems and costs for us. Boverket, responsible for the environmental objective Good built environment, has a vision for 2025. They expect us then to have taken seriously the increased risks of building along the beaches as a result of climate change and to have located all new buildings in more sheltered locations. There are seven years left – perhaps we should begin to approach that vision now, instead of alienating ourselves. We should also include the climate aspect in the legislation, to help the municipalities in their planning and the exercise of authority, to help people who are going to invest their money to build a home in an appropriate location and to help the insurance companies, which are completely on Boverket's line: Att build near water risks being very costly. Mr President, I would like to As I said earlier, during the time of the bourgeois government, the protection of the beach changed. This government introduced, among other things, a regulatory framework around so-called LIS areas, rural development in beachfront locations. It is a reform that has not produced the outcome desired by the bourgeois parties. Families with children and other residents have not queued up to build on the beaches in rural areas where the school has closed down and the shop is many miles away. The Green Party thinks it is good that the government is now making an evaluation of this reform and other reliefs in beach protection. I think it is also important to find out how much of this has led to more holiday homes on the beaches. This is something that was seen as a major problem between 50 and 60 years ago. I personally believe that an attractive year-round residence in the country is about completely different things than a private beach. It is about schools, shops and public services and opportunities for good mortgages, even for those who want to build in the country. It is about good broadband, jobs, good commuting opportunities, outdoor life and beautiful nature as well as an active association life. It's about common bathing areas and swimming schools – all that makes it so attractive for us to live in the country. Of course, many of us are happy to see the water from the kitchen window. But it is not worth a nice lake view if you can never get down to the lake, if the beach is lined with holiday homes and private jetties. Mr President, I would like to The Green Party considers it unfortunate that it has become easier to build on water in a situation where it is becoming increasingly risky. Future construction is not at sea or sea edge. It is also important to emphasise that rural development depends to a large extent on the values and opportunities that shore protection brings, such as untouched nature and everyone's access to the beaches. It is also in the reservation that the Green Party, together with the Social Democrats and the Left Party, have in this report, reservation No 6. I would therefore like to endorse that reservation and to endorse the committee's proposal in the report. Mr President, I would like to As an environmental partyist, I am very pleased and proud that we now have a government that is committed to protection of a valuable nature. The government's doubling of the appropriation for protection of a valuable nature has an impact throughout the country. Today we will take two important and encouraging decisions in this House. We will decide to expand the size of two of our national parks, Björnlandet in Västerbotten and Tiveden in Närke. Just Tiveden's National Park, I have a very special relationship with. A year ago, Lars Tysklind and I arranged a seminar in the Riksdag on decent forestry. One of the participants came from the state forest company Sveaskog. The municipal manager of Laxå municipality had got on the train and went up to Stockholm only to attend the seminar. Why? Because he and all the politicians in the municipality were worried about how Sveaskogs kalhygges- and plantationsbruk threatened the municipality's biggest attraction, Tivedens National Park. It is around Tiveden's National Park that the only move-in takes place in this move-out municipality. This is also where the new companies start. The municipal manager took the opportunity to make an appeal to Sveaskog to use the last remains of the natural forest around the national park with clean methods. Perhaps our seminar was the start of an increasingly strong protest movement in Tiveden. It can also be called a constructive dialogue between municipal politicians, entrepreneurs and residents on the one hand and Sveaskog on the other. In any case, the result was that Sveaskog has promised that outside the now soon expanded national park, the forest will be used without the bare skin. I'm glad to hear that. With clean methods in the forest, we benefit not only biodiversity but also outdoor life, tourism and a vibrant countryside. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal on Björnlanden and Tiveden and reject all reservations.
i-7xpFpyyFQJF3f5M7D5kgjz	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Stina Bergström, for that post! A lot has happened since the 1950s. For example, most parties sitting here today were not parliamentary parties at the time: neither the KD, the Swedish Democrats or the Environmental Party. Sweden was not in the EU, and Olof Palme had not yet become Prime Minister in Sweden. A lot has happened since then. I would also like to say, on this reform and on reforms in general, that reform is rarely perfect. It is rarely a reform is forever. There are many reforms that over time become untimely and need to be maintained. The benefit systems are a clear example of an area that constantly needs the attention of politicians. Much of what Stina Bergström mentions in her speech is about the protection of the beach – that the protection of the beach is important, that it should be preserved and that it should be extensive. At the same time, I know that Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog, who is responsible for these questions, replied on 14 September to a written question on this from Caroline Szyber, who is a Christian Democrat Member. In his reply, the Minister writes that LIS, rural development in coastal areas, should itself be reviewed and also aim to promote development in areas with good access to water. It feels as if there is a dissonance between what the MP Bergström says and what the Minister Skog says. My question to Stina Bergström is: Does Stina Bergström not want LIS to be reviewed, or should we interpret it as meaning that the environmental party government intends to review LIS in order to reduce opportunities for development in near-shore locations?
i-FjLTzJ8HjWf83JXJQcgVFX	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson, for the question! No, me and the Green Party think it's a good idea to review the LIS reform. Then I think it is important to do so in several ways. I myself have been involved in identifying LIS areas in my municipality. Then we also made a balance between which areas are suitable because there are good public transport, schools and shops nearby. It would be interesting to look at how these areas have been identified and which areas have been built and with what types of houses. The aim of the reform was to provide more attractive year-round housing in rural areas and not just free-time residences. As I said in my speech, I think it is important to look at it too. If you are then going to change the reform or not, you have to take a position on how it has worked.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-770	Mr President, I would like to Then I have a very simple supplementary question. If the Green Party is open to relaxing the protection of the countryside in order to create all year round housing, is it not reasonable that it would also be open to reducing the protection of the shores of urban areas in order to create all year round housing?
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-771	Mr President, I would like to In the committee text, where the majority of committees talk about how they want to review beach protection, they say that they do not want to relax beach protection where it is a high exploitation pressure. It should still be in urban areas and cities, right? I see, just like my predecessors, who wrote the Leisure Investigation, which looked at this in the 1930s, that it is even more important to protect the beach protection where we live. There are many who will share the beaches that exist. In less densely populated areas, there are fewer people. I must also correct Jesper Skalberg Karlsson and the representative of the Swedish Democrats, who said in their speeches that the protection of the shore has been extended in recent years. That's not true. On the contrary, beach protection has been reduced to 74% following the review. It has fallen from 6 600 square kilometers to 4,900. It is important to bear in mind that these are quite large areas that we have removed from protection. In some cases, it has certainly been justified, but in some cases you can think about why you have done so.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-773	Mr President, I would like to I am absolutely convinced that all municipalities in our country within their municipal borders want to create attractiveness – attractiveness for people to settle there and for people to create activities that provide development and therefore jobs in the municipality. In short, you want growth in your municipality. If we go back in time, it is easy to note that people were often located by water. The village communities that often arose have sometimes developed into a little larger communities, perhaps even cities. All municipalities that have this type of settlement, which is the vast majority of our country, want to continue to develop their areas. One of the reasons why we want this is that we want to continue to develop in general terms. You want more people living in the municipality. In short, you want growth. It can then be noted that the need for housing in the Swedish housing shortage today is great. It can be noted that – as I am now repeating for the third time – everyone wants continued development and growth with jobs and activities in the municipality. However, too many times these possibilities are limited by the beach protection rules that we have today. The reform of beach protection, which took place during the time of the Alliance Government, aimed at creating a more flexible application of the rules in force and on which we broadly agree, has not had enough impact. That is why I would like to strongly support the text which is now the majority text of the report, which we are discussing on this occasion, among other things. I would add that I think there is a petitess which we should be able to agree to change. The Petitessen – I regard it as a petitess – applies to this: for a very long time, there has been an exception to the current beach protection rules for the activities of agriculture and fisheries. The horse has been considered an agricultural animal for all years until now. But all of a sudden we have had an application, despite the fact that there have been no changes in legislation in this area, which means that there are now going to be exemptions for a certain type of horse activity conducted close to water. This is not enough. Now, not only larger lakes and the like are considered water, but also watercourses. Yes, I almost want to go so far as to say that what I call ditches is considered water in the application of beach protection legislation. Mr President, I would actually like to use the word absurd. I think this is absurd. I hope that we in Parliament can agree that the application in this part must return to what it once was, namely that all activities involving the agricultural industries – including, of course, the horse – are generally excluded from applying for authorisation, exemption, in order to dispose of a beach area. This restricts the possibilities for the attractions that lead many to settle and develop activities and so on in rural areas. This, in short, makes life a little more boring for a lot of people. In addition – that is a personal point of view, but I think many share my view – the landscape will be terribly boring and ugly when the open land will no longer be open because grazing animals, in this case horse, will not be allowed to use the land in question. For this reason, I would like to conclude, Mr President, by calling for the approval of Amendment No 7, paragraph 6, in order to ensure that there are no mistakes.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-782	Mr President, I would like to As I have been dealing with the issue of horse trade, I reacted when the former Minister for Rural Development talked about the problem that horse farming does not have the same possibility of exemption as a dairy farm or another farm. I do not know if I misunderstood Eskil Erlandsson, but it sounded as if this provision had been popping up right now, in recent years. But that is not the case at all. This is a problem that has been highlighted for quite a long time, because we have legislation that came about before we had these very horse farms in the country. This is not a new interpretation. I was in an interpellation debate here. We debated this, among other things. Let's see if it was with the Minister for the Environment or whether it was with the Minister for Rural Development – it must have been the current Minister for Rural Affairs. We discussed this, what could be done and what was important to do. I would therefore like to ask Mr Erlandsson what Mr Erlandsson did during his time as Minister for Agriculture for this problem.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-785	Mr President, I would like to It is very easy to answer that question. We commissioned, by government decision, to review the beach protection. That assignment was given to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. They have now reported it in recent times. The result is not to be filled in all parts, I think – it is my opinion. But it was this decision that the then government took, and that is what the responsible authority has implemented.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-786	Mr President, I would like to Excuse me, Mr Erlandsson, I asked what Mr Erlandsson was doing as Minister for Agriculture precisely in relation to the horse industry. It is about the fact that the horse industry is not included in this exception in the legislation. Agriculture and forestry, fishing and reindeer husbandry are included in the exception but not in the horse industry. I see this as a completely different issue from a general review of the protection of the shore. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was not commissioned to review the horse industry. When Eskil Erlandsson made his speech, it sounded like it felt that small watercourses should be covered by the beach protection and that it would also be something new. It's not like that at all. It's just the opposite. A decision has now been made to make it easier to build on smaller watercourses. The previous legislation has been comprehensive in the area of beach protection. Now that protection has been relaxed. That's what I want to say. But again to the question: what did Eskil Erlandsson, as a minister, do with regard to the specific problem that the horse industry does not have exceptions when other agricultural industries in the countryside do?
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-789	Mr President, I would like to I have to repeat my answer, with the reservation and the addition that memory is not always correct in all parts. But my memory tells me that the mission of the then government was to review the application of beach protection in general. A general review also includes activities to be exempted from that application. In my opinion, therefore, it is important to see whether the horse is not a farm animal and, therefore, whether the general derogation, or the derogation, should exist. As far as the small watercourses are concerned, the same is true. What I have seen is that in many areas of our country, in many counties of our country, the removals that I think should be made have not been made, given that too many small watercourses are included in areas covered by the protection of the shore now.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-791	Mr President, I would like to We are debating nature conservation. We are also debating the formation and extension of two national parks – Tiveden and Björnlandet. There are two national parks that we in the Left Party fully support. We in the Left Party welcome the fact that, with the support of the Left Party in the budget, the government is now investing more money than ever, I would say, precisely on protection of a valuable nature. It is clearly a trend break if one compares with previous bourgeois governments, which constantly pulled down in this area. Protection of a valuable nature is very important. We have been talking about biodiversity for several hours now and have stated that we need to have a high level of biodiversity in order to be able to deal with future challenges, not least as our planet gets warmer. We need nature and ecosystems that are resilient to these changes. It is therefore important to protect more nature. But it is not only important to look at the areas that are protected. Areas that are protected must also be representative, thus having a valuable content. There must be a connection between these areas so that there are no small plots here and there that are not connected in a larger context. The quality of the protected areas is therefore incredibly important. In the report, the committee notes that the government has now, in principle, achieved the objective of protecting 10% of our marine environments. That's a good step forward. However, we in the Left Party want to protect more. We believe that 10% is not enough; we should aim to protect at least 20% of our seas. It is also important to look at the quality of the protected 10% at sea. If you look closely at areas such as Kosterfjorden, Norra Midsjöbanken and the Weather Islands, which are protected at sea, you are struck by the fact that where, for example, professional fishing is allowed on a very large scale. Even bottom trawling is permitted in a very large part of our marine reserves. We don't see much of bottom trawling because it happens under the surface of the water. A similar activity on land would rather be about laying out 100 meters wide, very heavy tools and just letting them plow down everything that is growing. Of course, we would never allow such a thing to happen to land, especially in a nature reserve. But that is exactly what is happening with our marine reserves. That is why we in the Left Party believe that it is extremely important that we not only protect more, but also that the quality of marine reserves, that is, those at sea, be strengthened in particular. This means, for example, that a ban on bottom trawling in marine nature reserves should be self-evident. Mr President, I would like to In view of this, I would like to support the Left Party's reservation 5. Beach protection has been debated here. I would really like to endorse Stina Bergström's description of the history behind the fact that we have legislation on beach protection, namely that it is part of our right of public access in Sweden. It has simply been about public access to these important areas, that our former legislators have found it unacceptable that just because you have a thick wallet you should be able to colonise thousands of the finest areas in our country in the form of beaches along lakes, seas and other watercourses. That is why we have legislation which says that we must not build closer than 100 metres from the shore. I think this is a very fine piece of legislation, because with it we say that public access in this respect is more important than absolute property rights. With this legislation, we say not only that it is about public access, but we also identify these coastal areas as very important for biodiversity, which is also one reason why we have our beach protection: it is another way of protecting valuable biotopes, species and so on. Unfortunately, over the last few years, the beach protection in Sweden has been loosened in a very effective way, I would say. Under the former bourgeois rule, for example, we got the so-called LIS areas, which means that one can exclude entire coastal areas in order to bring about so-called rural development, which simply means that one should be able to build close to the beach. The former bourgeois government has also ensured that it is the municipalities that, alongside the county administrative board, can grant exemptions for beach protection, and this exemption has been extremely generous. In 2015 alone, more than 4,500 exemptions were granted regarding beach protection. There are also some other exceptions which have been made and which mean that today's beach protection is unfortunately not what it should be. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's inventory also shows that the total area of protected near-shore land has decreased sharply in Sweden. Now the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats want to go even further in this, and I would like to ask a specific question and hope that you can explain: what do you really want in the text you have written in this report? You're talking about wanting more exceptions. Should there be more than 4,500 exceptions each year from the beach shelter? You're talking about your desire to further decentralize the processes. Yes, but it is already the municipalities that can give exceptions when it comes to beach protection. How should it be further decentralised? In what way do you want to further loosen and weaken this fine legislation, of which I think we should be proud? Mr President, I would like to In this connection, I would also like to call for the approval of reservation 6, in which V, S and MP oppose the text of the bourgeois and Swedish democrats on the protection of the shore.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-808	Mr President, I would like to In my speech, I intend to focus above all on the reform of beach protection. Finland is usually called the land of the thousand lakes, but the fact is that Sweden has more lakes than our eastern neighbour. If you count the smallest streams, Sweden has about 527 000 kilometres of water. About a third of the country's surface is within 100 metres of such a stream. Added to this are the sea and coastal beaches. Few would think it reasonable that settlements should be banned in all these areas. It is mainly in large cities that extensive lake-based buildings can be a problem while in sparsely populated areas with its many lakes and streams there is plenty of space for construction. The share of land built up along beaches is 60 – 70 per cent in the Stockholm area, while in small municipalities the figure is 2 – 20 per cent. So there is a huge difference. Building and developing properties that are not close to other buildings should be considered rural development. Therefore, it should be allowed to build lakeside one- or two-housing houses in low-exploited areas. In fact, it is obvious that the need for beach protection differs between Stockholm and, for example, Laxå Municipality, which is located in my home county, Örebro County. Laxå is one of the municipalities that has the most lakeside per inhabitant of all Sweden's inland municipalities. In addition, according to SKL, Laxå is one of Sweden's poorest municipalities. It is not acceptable for this municipality to be prevented in its efforts to use its main resource to create better living conditions for its inhabitants and to get more people to move to the municipality. In Laxå there is a great deal of agreement in the policy that this is an obstacle that you want to remove. Mr President, I would like to In the spring of 2015 the Parliament announced to the government to make beach protection more appropriate throughout the country in order to improve the conditions for construction, housing and economic activity in coastal locations. Unfortunately, the government has not yet taken any real action on the basis of Parliament's decisions. Therefore, the Riksdag is now making another announcement to the government to decentralise beach protection and give municipalities increased influence when determining which beach areas are to be preserved and which can be built. Strict beach protection, on the other hand, is reasonable to apply in areas where exploitation pressures are high or where there are exceptional reasons. But it is time to start applying a much greater degree of flexibility in, for example, many of the municipalities of Norrland, which are now increasingly depopulated and where beach protection rules are an obstacle. This is clear from those municipalities. The former alliance government changed the beach protection rules on a couple of occasions. The aim was to facilitate near-shore rural development, especially in areas with low exploitation pressures. The ambition was at the same time to provide opportunities for extended beach protection from 100 meters to 300 meters where special reasons existed. As a result of the legislative changes, there was almost a backlash where several county boards began to apply the rules more restrictively. This had unreasonable consequences for many who live off their land. In practice, the limit of 300 metres was applied unless there were specific reasons for applying the limit of 100 metres. It was so in my home country and in some other counties. There's been a change. At present, the rules are interpreted as meaning that new houses may only be built in connection with existing buildings. This favours new construction in areas already exploited, which was not the purpose of the changes on the part of the Alliance. Instead, we should protect hard-exploited areas but open to construction in undeveloped areas. Madam President, I would like It must be considerably easier to build homes near the beach in the sparsely populated parts of the country. The regulatory framework must be fundamentally reformed. Today's regulatory framework rests on the principle that everything that is not explicitly permitted is prohibited. For sparsely populated areas, housing should instead be allowed, except in areas designated by decision as worthy of protection. Where beach protection rules are applied, beach protection should generally extend 50 metres from the beach, rather than 300 metres, unless there are special reasons to have a longer limit. For the sake of legal certainty, it is important that the landowners concerned should be asked to give their opinion before a decision on extended beach protection is taken. Yet the county administrative boards today make general decisions where landowners are only allowed to know what is going on through a announcement in the newspaper. This makes a fair balance of interests impossible. In order for beach protection to be perceived as legitimate, respect for the right of public access and for landowners to be given a real opportunity to express themselves. Now the government must comply with Parliament's call and improve the conditions for building lakes in sparsely populated areas. Madam President, I would like As I say in a specific opinion, the Christian Democrats are obviously behind the committee's announcement of further reform of the protection of the shores and our two reservations in the committee's report MJU9. However, for time to come, I am only in favour of the Christian Democrats' reservation 9 on limiting general beach protection. I also support the committee's proposals in the two reports MJU16 and MJU17 on the extension of national parks. In the longer term, there is reason to examine the question of making it even easier to build homes near the beach in the sparsely populated parts of the country. For these sparsely populated areas, settlements should be permitted, except in those areas which are designated by decision as worthy of protection.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-821	Madam President, I would like According to the latest statistics, Sweden's municipalities around the country granted 4,584 exemptions from beach protection in 2015. You say in your text in the report that you want it to be easier to grant exemptions and that there will be more exemptions from beach protection. I have a few questions for Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell and the Christian Democrats. Isn't 4 584 exemptions in just one year from the beach shelter enough? How many exemptions do you want to be granted? My second question concerns the 50-metre limit proposed by the Christian Democrats. I didn't really follow when Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell was talking. Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell talked about that there is a severe exploitation pressure in our cities. There it should be a strict application of beach protection, if I understood him correctly. In sparsely populated areas it can be less strict. Since you are writing that the new 50-metre stretch from the beach should generally be in place, should it apply throughout the country, in the city as a country? I would like an answer to that.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-824	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Mr Holm. Let me start with the 4 584 exemptions that Jens Holm has summed it up to in 2015 in relation to saying that it should be easier to give exemptions. Yes, it should be strict where exploitation pressure is harsh, but there is plenty of room, as I said in my speech, to build in sparsely populated areas. I mentioned the example from my municipality of Laxå, which has extremely many running meters of lake plot but few inhabitants. The municipality wants more residents. There are those who are interested in moving there, but they have had a hard time hearing to build where they want to build. I know from close range that there's been a problem. I have no idea how many exemptions are to be granted. I don't think Jens Holm has any idea of level or number either. However, I know from my own experience that in Laxå or in Härjedalen where I have my roots there is a great interest in building. I have no idea where these exemptions have taken place, but my view is definitely that there should not be exemptions where there is a high pressure for exploitation. This should be done especially in areas where there is plenty of space. I find it difficult to understand why the restriction should apply.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-828	Madam President, I would like I didn't get much wiser. You say in the report that you want more exemptions from the protection of the shore. If you want more exceptions to the beach protection rules, it would mean that you want more exemptions. In my ears, 4 584 dispensations sound a lot. In addition, many of the exemptions are given in counties such as Stockholm County, where much has already been exploited. I still think that the Christian Democrats owe the answer because you want more exceptions and more exemptions. Isn't it enough four and a half thousand? Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell did not answer my question that the Christian Democrats want to reduce the limit of beach protection to 50 meters, not 100 meters with the possibility of 300 meters. Do the Christian Democrats really believe that a halving of the shore protection area is a strict application of beach protection? Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell still talked about wanting to see one in urban areas.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-831	Madam President, I would like I said I see a difference in that where there is a high exploitation pressure, it should be strict. Moreover, where there is plenty of room, we should be more generous. That's my posture. Jens Holm says that many of the exemptions are in Stockholm County. It can look different even in Stockholm County because it is large. However, my ambition and that of my party is to give exemptions and reliefs where there is plenty of space and where there is interest to move. When it comes to how many I have no idea if there are many or if there should be more. More exemptions have been given, and more exemptions need to be given if you are to make room for people who want to build, live and have business. As far as the 50-metre limit is concerned, we have added something to our text. We obviously support the text of the committee. A majority in the committee agrees on it. Nevertheless, we are sending this text and the ambition to review whether one could go down to 50 metres as a limit. That's what we have in our reservation.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-835	Madam President, I would like There are a lot of questions you would like to ask about when you hear Lars ‐ Axel Nordell give a speech about Laxå municipality, beach protection, urban areas, etc. One question I have is this. Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell mentioned a measure of how much sea plot there is in the municipality. Then I wonder if he really has counted on plots along a lake. We usually say that we have a lot of shoreline in Sweden, but it's not that you can build everywhere along a lake. The places where you can build a house are often exactly the places where you can have a beach where the public likes to go and where the animals like to go. I'm curious if Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell has any measure of how much of the land around the lakes in Laxå municipality you could make plots of. But that's not really what I stumbled on the most. Yesterday, when I went through the report properly, I read the committee text, which the Christian Democrats, together with the other bourgeois parties, have supported. It states that exceptions to the beach protection rules should be made possible in order to create more socially mixed residential areas as well as more attractive residential areas in sparsely populated municipalities. Now I wonder: What do Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell and the Christian Democrats think about creating more socially mixed residential areas by making exceptions to beach protection regulations?
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-838	Madam President, I would like I'll start with the beach lines and exactly how much of them can be empty. Of course, I have no idea. I know that there have been discussions in Laxå and also in Askersund's municipality, which is another municipality in the county, that there are areas where the municipality is not satisfied because the LIS areas that have been pointed out are so that it is difficult to make plots. You have to make it work. From the county administrative board they have said: You can build there, but you can't build there. - Yes, but there are already houses. - Yes, exactly. That's why you should build there and not there. This has been tricky, because of course you want to build where it is appropriate. I cannot, as I said, determine here and now how much of the surface you can make plots of. Some are appropriate; of course some are not. My ambition and that of my party is to find suitable areas on which to build, and that is what I am talking about. Then, of course, there are areas on which it is less appropriate to build. Then you have to try this. As far as socially mixed residential areas are concerned, I have no idea exactly what that means. Unfortunately, that is where the answer is due.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-845	Madam President, I would like If you support a committee text, you must surely be able to explain what you mean by it. Otherwise, it's gonna be really weird. As I said, I was thinking about what this means. Could it be that people who live in cities and have money are allowed to build holiday homes on rural beaches and thus mix with people living in rural areas, at least during the summer? Or do you think that now that there are spaces left in Stockholm's nicer suburbs, you can support cheaper housing there – municipal housing for students, new arrivals and people who need financial support, for example? Then we also get a social layering. On the other hand, the committee text says that it does not want it to be built where it is a hard exploitation pressure. I think I'll have to repeat my question. What do the Christian Democrats mean by backing this? What do you mean when you say that relaxation in the beach shelter should provide more socially mixed residential areas?
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-849	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question. There is no doubt, whether you read the text of the report, read the motions or take note of what I have said, that my ambition and that of the party, and also that of the Alliance, is to open up, above all, opportunities to build near-shore areas that are not hard-exploited. There I think Stina Bergström can be completely calm, and there we can agree completely. When it comes to exactly what is meant by these areas, whether it is about holiday homes or as Stina Bergström says city dwellers who move out and so on: Yes, of course it will be that way if you open up. There may be greater diversity in those areas, and I think that we can agree on that. No, it's not about the gaps you're talking about, Stina Bergström. It is a question of opening up in these areas, where the municipalities are today clear that they want to increase housing construction because there is a attraction in building and living near water. In that case, there should not be sticks in the wheel of that extension, which actually gives added value to the municipality.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-853	Madam President, I would like This issue of nature conservation and site protection links very well with the previous debate on biodiversity. We have proposed on the table the extension of the national parks of Tiveden and Björnlandet. These are important things. The most valuable nature must be protected, and nature reserves and national parks play an important role here. I can only say that in 2009 National Park No 29 was added. It was the marine national park in Kosterhavet. Now we have proposals for two more enlargements on our table, which we naturally fully support. The report otherwise discusses the right of public access and such things. From the Liberals' point of view, it is extremely important to protect the right of public access to various types of outdoor life and also as an important basis for nature tourism. At the same time, it is important to work with the conflicts that may arise in this and not over-exploit the right of public access. After all, the right of public access entails both rights and obligations. There is a need to balance things in between. The report contains two demands for exercise from the Liberals on beach protection linked to housing construction. They are supported by what the report says. Madam President, I would like The debate began with Johan Büser – he has unfortunately gone now – who said that water is important. Just agree; it is clear that water is important. I would like to make it clear that we in the Liberals believe that the general beach protection of 100 metres has benefited Sweden. Even the extended beach shelter of up to 300 metres can sometimes be justified, but then there should really be a reason. The situation in 2009 was a lot about this. Very much had been spent on a flat-rate basis in the case of 300-metre protection without actually being able to justify why it should be there. The whole purpose of the new legislation was to review this and to justify each section. Now it has not really been the outcome that was intended, but it is important to review this again. Our starting point is that it is extremely important that we do not jeopardise the objectives of beach protection, which concern both the accessibility and the protection of plant and animal life. In other words, the Liberals are a clear advocate of a generally strong beach protection and want to act as a guarantor of it. However, we believe that there must be great flexibility in order to adapt to local conditions, and that is where the political conflict comes. It is not by definition that a local adaptation based on local conditions is a deterioration of the beach protection. Here too it is a question of acceptance and legitimacy of the legislation. In different parts of Sweden, one must still be able to have an understanding of the value of the beach protection. The most disastrous thing that can happen to the beach protection rules is that one should question the legislation as such. Madam President, I would like Beach protection has a rural dimension. As has been said in the debate, rural development is very many things and is about an enormous amount, not least public services, jobs, business conditions and so on. Also being able to build on rural areas in attractive locations is one of the factors of some importance. For this reason, the Liberals are in favour of reforming beach protection in order to increase the possibility of more beachfront housing in rural areas with low exploitation pressures. In the debate, I think there is a terrible difference between beachfront locations and the construction of beaches. If you read the legislation, you can see that it says that the beach must not be used and that there must be access possibilities. In any case, in the propositi onen is expressed a distance of 30 meters, which must be present. Local adaptation means that we should have strict beach protection in those areas where we have high exploitation pressures or if the objectives of beach protection are significantly jeopardised. It is the differentiation and flexibility that are important. When the alliance government implemented the fairly radical changes to the beach protection rules in 2009-2010, it was precisely to achieve this flexibility. However, it has become clear that the reforms have not been exactly as planned and that they have not had an impact. Among others, SKL believes that beach protection is still applied in an unbiased way and prevents municipalities from creating attractive living environments in rural areas, despite the possibility of identifying so-called LIS areas, i.e. rural development in coastal locations. Since this has not had an impact, we in the Liberals believe that it is important to take action so that the agreed beach protection reform has the impact that was intended for it and that this can be a support for rural development. It may sound a little contradictory, but it is still important to say that what we want to achieve is flexibility. Basically, it is not a question of weakening protection, but of making it more effective, with the objectives of beach protection in mind. Madam President, I would like Jens Holm once again brought up Kosterhavet National Park and that you can trawl there, I do not know for what time in order. Unfortunately, Jens Holm is again very historyless. I think Jens Holm is really very aware of how the formation of Kosterhavet National Park was done. Basically, it was based on fishing and the so-called Koster – the Weather Island Agreement, which is based on the closure of particularly sensitive areas. There were some passages of corals and such, and it was entirely voluntary. It developed the tools and introduced that those fishing had to undergo training in Tjär nö marine biological laboratory, or Sven Lovén Centre for Marine Sciences, as it is said today. This was a prerequisite for the national park to come into existence. Until then, the issue was completely blocked, and it was thanks to the opening of professional fishing that the discussion could be brought to fruition. It can be said that when the national park was formed they had been trawling in Kosterfjorden for over a hundred years. As I said, many restrictions were imposed on fishing at the time of its creation. The description that Jens Holm made of a bottom trawl can certainly be true in some pieces, but there are different variants of bottom trawling, although of course everyone has some impact on the bottom. The tools used in the national park are specially adapted to cause as little damage as possible. What was said from the beginning – that it would be a busy national park – was a prerequisite for its formation. Then it is a bit historyless to come and say that this is no longer legitimate. Having said that, I think I have answered the question and once again stated that not everything is black or white when it comes to trawling.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-873	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by asking the Liberals and Lars Tysklind about the beach shelter. Lars Tysklind tells us that it is important that we have good beach protection and that he is proud of the legislation and so on, but at the same time he represents a party that during the eight years of bourgeois rule did nothing but loosen up the beach shelter. For example, they gave municipalities the right to grant exemptions, they introduced the so-called LIS areas, which mean that very large areas are excluded from beach protection and so on. Now the bourgeois parties, together with the Swedish Democrats, have passed through a text saying that they want to further decentralise the system and that the municipalities should have increased influence. It is also said that more exemptions from beach protection legislation should be made possible. I have to ask the Liberals: what are the additional exceptions you want? In 2015, more than 4,500 exemptions were granted from beach protection. How will municipalities have additional influence when they already have the right to grant exemptions? That's one thing. The second is bottom trawling. I regret the fact that the Kosterhavet National Park and some forty other marine reserves have a bottom trawl. In any case, according to me, Lars Tysklind, a marine reserve should be protected from large-scale fishing and especially harmful methods. At least I think it is obvious that bottom trawls are, although there are of course different trawls.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-878	Madam President, I would like As far as bottom trawling is concerned, I would like to say once again that one of the pillars of the creation of the national park was that fishing should be allowed to continue. A prerequisite for triggering the positive discussion and development that opened the National Park in 2009 was precisely the attitude of fishing to make restrictions on a voluntary basis in the first place. This would then also be included in the rules applicable to the National Park of Kosterhavet. We may not agree on this, but I can only say that this is the case. It always gets so weird when we discuss beach shelters. As soon as you want to change it and make it more effective, it is said that it is about loosening it. And loosening up is by definition something bad. It is rarely legislation that is entirely the best possible, and it must be able to change. Just when we are talking about beach protection, there is an extreme difference between local conditions. I myself come from the Bohus coast, where there is enormous exploitation pressure. But in the inner part of Bohuslän you may not have any exploitation pressure at all along the lakes. It is clear that we must then have legislation that can be adapted to local circumstances. Then there will be a very polarized discussion. We have heard here in the debate that people are talking about people with large wallets who are more or less colonising the beaches, as Jens Holm puts it. Then I would like to say once again that there is an extreme difference between building on the beach and building on the beach. It must be possible to find attractive locations that do not jeopardise the two objectives of beach protection. I am absolutely convinced that it will be possible, if the municipalities are allowed to continue working.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-883	Madam President, I would like What I am opposed to is that so far I have not heard anyone from the bourgeois side and from the Swedish Democrats who can give clear answers to what is being said in the text that has been passed on in this report. In general, it is said that more exemptions should be made possible from beach protection legislation. If, in general, we want more exceptions, I am assuming that we want more exemptions, for example. In the next breath we are talking about the desire to further decentralise the system and that the municipalities should have more influence. It is then understood that today we have an inflexible system and that there are no exemptions. But it's all wrong. There are an incredible number of exemptions from beach protection – more than 4,500 in 2015. It is decentralised so that municipalities can grant these exemptions. According to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the total area of protected areas along our shores has decreased sharply. You must take responsibility, Lars Tysklind, for what you write. I don't think you do. I'd also like to pick up the bottom trawl. I don't think I'm in any way historyless. The concept of historyless in this context seems to me to be completely apart. That's not what I'm talking about. I don't give any history descriptions, but I give a description of what it's like here and now. We have 40 marine reserves or other protected areas that allow bottom trawling. I find it very strange to allow the most harmful form of fishing in our protected marine areas. It would have been appropriate if we could have had some support from the Liberals here. Instead, they come out as the main protector of the fishing industry. I find that a bit boring.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-886	Madam President, I would like I had no intention of commenting on this with bottom trawling now. But the last thing Jens Holm said I thought was a bit irrelevant in the context. When I was talking about Kosterhavet National Park, I was talking about incredibly small-scale fishing. The fact that Jens Holm then says that we are the main protector of the fishing industry does not give a fair picture. But, like I said, we don't really get along there. According to the Liberals, further extension of the right to use coastal areas is about working on the LIS areas and getting the impact that was planned in 2009 but that has not worked. The LIS areas – rural development in coastal locations – are not about the freedom to build, but rather the demands on municipalities that they designate these areas and that this cannot be done in general. What I think is the important part is that the regulatory framework is changed so that these opportunities are increased for municipalities. As far as decentralisation is concerned, I would like to remind you that it is the municipalities that are making the decisions today, as Jens Holm says. The County Administrative Boards have a right of appeal, and at least it does not question us on the Liberal side. This is a matter of national interest. Not many cases are now being examined, and you can have comments on that. However, this may be due to the fact that the municipalities comply fairly well with the legislation. As far as the number of exemptions is concerned, it is also a little misleading. It is clear that the exemptions granted are not granted in the areas we are discussing now – the low-exploited rural areas – but are given in the areas where much is being built.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-891	Madam President, I would like It's hard to want to eat the cake and to want it left, I think when I listen to Lars Tysklind. I agree that the Liberals have stood up for beach protection throughout history. You have been good at changing the legislation and taking part in bringing this in with plant and animal life, etcetera. But in recent years in the government it has been a bit of this. On the contrary, it has been working on loosening the beach cover. I'd like to ask you a question. Since the Liberals are the only bourgeois opposition party that does not want to remove the government's efforts to adapt to climate change, which I find very sympathetic, I understand that the Liberals see the challenge that we have to actually adapt to climate change. I mentioned in my speech that I think it would be time for us as politicians, after we have started looking at people's needs for beaches in terms of legislation, to take into account the importance of biodiversity also in legislation when we assess how close the beaches we can build and so on, including the climate aspect. I would therefore like to ask Lars Tysklind whether he, like what Mr Boverket is proposing, believes that we should be careful that we do not build close to the beaches due to climate change. We could agree to include such a part in the legislation on beach protection as well.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-896	Madam President, I would like I understand Stina Bergström's claim that it is difficult to eat the cake and keep it, but I do not think it is a relevant statement. There is no contradiction in standing up for a strong overall beach protection and seeing that there are opportunities for local adaptation and flexibility. There is an example from Öckerö municipality where – it is probably ten twelve years ago now – you went through all the beaches and created a flexible beach shelter. Now this was not approved, because it was not possible with the legislation that existed then, but the beach protection ranged from 400 meters, I think, down to 0 meters. The beach shelter was really laid where it was important, but it was not possible. It may have been an extreme local adaptation, but we actually think we should be able to do something that way. When it comes to building in beachfront locations, we can of course think that it is the beach protection legislation that should fix this. But it was probably around the same time, in 2008, that the Alliance Government introduced complements in the Planning and Construction Act to consider the risk of erosion, flooding and something more. It was precisely intended not to build areas where rising water could affect. You'd take it into your planning. In my opinion, this is perhaps the most appropriate way to tackle this, i.e. to see this risk in purely construction planning. It is not so much a question of distance from water, but it is also a matter of local conditions. I agree that I do not think that the tightening up has been sufficiently taken into account. Perhaps there is a need for further work on it.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-900	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Lars Tysklind! The problem that many members of the Environmental and Building Boards around the country face when looking at beach protection applications is that they cannot use the argument about climate risks to say that it is not possible to build. It is the legislation used then, and there is a desire to get that tool in the municipalities. As I said in my speech, there are also requests from insurance companies to look at this, because it can still be very expensive. We can also find ourselves in the situation of building a house, and then no insurance company wants to insure the house because they see that the risks are too great. Not having a regulatory framework that can actually help in terms of how to build in a safe way, I also think is betraying people who want to build their dream house. I did not receive a proper answer from Lars Tysklind's alliance partner when I asked about the committee text which all the bourgeois parties have supported. I wondered what it meant by wanting more exceptions to the beach protection rules to allow for more socially mixed residential areas. I didn't get a proper answer to that, but Lars Tysklind might be able to explain to me what they mean.
i-afc8dd617bec69fc-903	Madam President, I would like Building properties in areas that are flooded time and again has shown that insurance companies, too, are naturally tired. I have a great deal of sympathy for that, and there are examples of that. Nevertheless, I would like to say that this tool is in the Planning and Construction Act today, although it may not be used enough. I think that is the kind of legislation that should be used in terms of planned settlements. Then it is clear that the beach protection legislation of the environmental code can also be used, but then there are other arguments. Beach protection legislation is based on the fundamental aims of accessibility and the preservation of plants and animals. On the other hand, when it comes to the suitability of building, it can be very long distances around certain lakes in low-lying areas. Where it is very low, you may have to refrain from building within a kilometer. The link is therefore not clear in the use of beach protection legislation to this end. However, it may be that we need to look at and further strengthen the importance and application of what is already written in the Planning and Construction Act. It was, in any case, a very important factor when it was introduced; it was about local authorities taking into account any climate change that is inevitable. When it comes to social housing, it has a slightly different meaning for us. I see it as an opportunity to build one can get a mix of all year round houses and free-time residences and that one can get different forms of leasing. In some places, even in rural areas, you should also build apartment buildings in attractive locations – it is done along coastal routes and so on just so that people can move there under reasonable conditions. So there are many variants of this.
