i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-7	Mr President, I would like to Mr Jomshof has asked me what I meant by the statement I made in an interview with the British BBC, whether I have re-evaluated my previous position on the matter and whether I have contacted the BBC and informed them of incorrect statements. The interview in BBC, which took place in February earlier this year, was about Sweden's work with the reception of new arrivals. There were questions about how Sweden handles reception, how we work with integration issues and whether the reception of refugees has led to a crisis situation in Sweden. I described the challenges that Sweden now faces when many people are to be established in a short time – challenges related to housing shortages and education for many. Furthermore, questions were asked about crime and whether there is a link between crime and the reception of new arrivals. A question was asked about the development of the number of rapes reported. The Crime Prevention Council, in its report on the development of crime in Sweden from February this year, points out that different data sources point in different directions when it comes to the development of sexual crime in recent years. One of my statements in the interview was not correct. I have already publicly corrected this. The statistics are not unambiguous, but it is obviously important that it be right.
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-11	Mr President, I would like to After n yårnnatten 2015 – 2016 there were many who were shocked by reports that talked about thousands of gross sexual abuse. There were many asylum seekers in Cologne and several other German and European cities who had subjected women both to sexual harassment and to rape. Here in Sweden, too, there were similar abuses. In Kalmar, p olisens press speaker stated that groups of young men surrounded women during the New Year's night to molest them sexually. They also reported that they had never experienced anything like this. However, these events were not the beginning or the end of anything, but only part of a long series of similar events that have shaken several European countries for a long time. Here in Sweden, DN in January 2016 was able to reveal that Swedish girls and women have for several years been subjected to various forms of sexual abuse at the youth festival We A re S thlm of mainly young immigrant men or so-called unaccompanied refugee children. These are sexual assaults as well as rapes. However, this is only one of many festivals where abuse of this kind has occurred. In fact, the 2016 Festival summer came to be marked by a wide range of similar abuses. Not only that, in 2016, Sweden also suffered several high-profile assaults and group rapes. Not least Malmö came to suffer what can be likened to a veritable wave of rape in the summer of 2016 when 33 rapes were reported. For example, on at least two occasions children, only 14 and 12 years of age, have been dragged into the shrubbery by unknown men and raped in broad daylight. However, abuse of this kind is not unique for 2016 but has occurred for a long number of years. Swedish girls and women have been molested or raped in bathing houses, festivals, ferries, apartments, streets and squares by mainly immigrant men from the Middle East and North Africa. Mr President, I would like to However, it is not only the disgusting events themselves, but also the flatness, paralysis and cover-up of the other parties and parts of the media. One of these politicians who, in my opinion, deny the facts and who tries to cover up is Minister Ylva Johansson. In an interview with the British BBC recently, the Minister very seriously stated that, firstly, there is no connection between the very large immigration into Sweden and the increasing level of crime. The level is going down, and going down, and going down, the minister also claimed. In fact, however, it is just the opposite. The more serious the crime, the greater the proportion of the reported crimes have been committed by immigrants, not least in the case of sexual offences. Moreover, crimes of this kind have become more common. The Minister's assertions are thus incorrect. I would like to ask the following supplementary question: is it serious for a minister to spread fake news in this way? The Minister further claims that she has already made an excellent correction to this. It has, however, what I understand, correct me if I am wrong, done in Swedish with you. In that case, I think it is not enough, which leads me to put the following question again: has the Minister contacted the BBC and informed them of the errors? If not, will this happen? If not, why not?
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-19	Mr President, I would like to Rape is a terrible abuse that is a tragedy for the woman affected, for it is usually women or girls who are affected. All women have the right to demand a government to do everything in its power to prevent rape, to give women security and protection and to prosecute crimes if they are committed. This government does. We are actively working to change and strengthen sexual crime legislation. We've invested billions in the police. We have presented a new programme to combat violence against women. We continue our efforts to build a safer Sweden. According to statistics on sexual offences and rapes, the number of reported rapes decreased in 2015. Yesterday, the official statistics from Brå on crime for 2016 showed that rapes have unfortunately increased in 2016. It shows that it is difficult to draw conclusions. The BBC interview, which took place in February, was about the situation that Sweden has as one of the countries, in fact the country, among the rich OECD countries that have taken the greatest responsibility in an international refugee crisis. More than 60 million people are on the run. They run from war and hell. Sweden has taken responsibility and provides asylum and protection to a few of them but many, more than any other OECD country has done. This is obviously a very big challenge for Sweden. It challenges schools, housing construction, the labour market and many parts. Therefore, many turn to Sweden and are curious. How's it going? How does Sweden meet the big challenges? I welcome that curiosity about Sweden. We see that, despite the huge challenges, there are good signs that we can do this and are moving in the right direction. Jobs are on the increase. There are 150 000 more people in work since the government took office. Housing construction is increasing and is up to record levels comparable to that of the 1970s. The results in school have been turned in the right direction thanks to good teachers. The funds show surpluses since we took office despite the large costs that are initially associated with a large refugee reception. Sweden works hard, and not least I do, to cope with the great challenge that many new arrivals pose for Sweden. Everyone has the right to demand that the government work actively to meet the challenges, and we do. This also applies to crime, which I have already touched upon.
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-26	Mr President, I would like to What if we could stick to the point? We do not need to go further than the Swedish Radio P3 and their review of the festival summer 2016 to see that the number of sexual crimes has increased. At 10 out of 13 major festivals that have been reviewed, reports of sexual harassment have increased from 10 to 111 and the number of reported rapes from 4 to 11. The festival that stuck out most is the so-called Putte in the Park in Karlstad, where the registrations increased from 1 notification in 2015 to 38 notifications in 2016. A more extensive investigation has been carried out by the police. The situational picture of sexual harassment and proposals for action were submitted by the police in May 2016. This has mapped all reports of sexual harassment registered between January 2011 and February 2016. The police also examined in depth the reports received specifically in 2015, focusing on the crimes committed by several offenders. The police's conclusion after the survey was that the very gross sexual harassment committed in Sweden in public places by men in groups is mainly committed by persons with foreign citizenship. Furthermore, when the report specifies the background of the perpetrators, they are people from Arab and African countries and Afghanistan. Mr President, I would like to The National Security Survey, NTU, which measures people's reported exposure to crime, shows that the proportion of victims of sexual offences in the population has increased sharply in 2016. During the period 2005 – 2012, the proportion reported as having been exposed to sexual offences was relatively stable at around 1 per cent. Since then, there has been a strong and gradual increase in recent years, and in 2015 1.7 per cent of the population in the age range between 16 and 79 reported that they were victims of sex offences in the same year. These are 129 000 people. Women aged between 16 and 24 are most vulnerable, among whom as many as 9 per cent report exposure to sexual offences in 2015. Mr President, I would like to We have reviewed all academic studies that have mapped immigrants' rape crime in Sweden in modern times. There are a total of 13 studies. The results of these studies can be summarised as follows: All available research published from 1990 to 2016 that measures immigrants' crime in Sweden reports a clear and very large over-representation in rape crimes among people with foreign backgrounds. There is no study to suggest otherwise. For example, one study estimates that over 66 percent of suspected rapists in Stockholm in 2008 – 2009 were foreign citizens. People with Swedish citizenship born abroad have not been included. Another study notes that 85% of those sentenced by Svea Court of Appeal in 2002 to at least two years' imprisonment for rape had a foreign background. I have the report here, and the Minister will be very happy to take note of it. I also have statistics on the number of reported crimes. You can see what happened between 1997 and 2016: a sharp increase in both sexual crime and rape. For example, if we stick to the past few years, we can look at 2011, when the number of sexual crimes was 17,556. In 2016 it was 21,074. The number of rapes during the same period was 6,532 and 6,715 respectively. So there has been a sharp increase. I would like to take this opportunity to pass on a copy of the report to the Minister and ask the question: will the Minister continue to stick to the facts and to the truth about issues of this kind?
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-33	Mr President, I would like to I must admit that I was a little surprised to see on the calendar of the House that the Minister for Employment would respond to an interpellation on sexual crime. I must also admit, Mr President, that I am a little surprised that the interpellation slipped through the chamber. But now it is what it is, and then it may be interesting to think about what this stands for. Richard Jomshof, the Swedish Democrats, is of course not interested in labour market policy. We know that for a long time, Mr President. Richard Jomshof is not really interested in sexual crime either; we know that for a long time. On the other hand, Richard Jomshof and the Swedish Democrats are completely blinded by their view of immigration and how immigration affects Sweden in a negative way. Richard Jomshof says that he has gone through all the studies on immigrants' crime in Sweden. You can have fun with that. You can also enjoy going through studies of Swedish democratic crime in Sweden. It is also an interesting study that could be handed over to Richard Jomshof, but I suspect that his head of security already has it well documented. There are three types of Swedish democrats in this House: there are those who are being prosecuted, there are those who are likely to be prosecuted and there are those who have been prosecuted. Sexual delinquency, as the Minister for Labour says, is a terrible thing. All crime has a victim, and sexual crime definitely has some of the most vulnerable victims in crime. That is why it is particularly terrible, and that is why, as the Minister for Labour says, the government is working hard against all forms of crime – especially sexual crime. Mr President, I would like to My question is whether Mr Jomshof's commitment to this issue is equally strong. I think there are good reasons for doubting that. If you go to Richard Jomshof's own parliamentary group, you can take part of the testimony there. Women members of the Swedish Democratic Parliamentary Group describe, Mr President, that they treat their female comrades in a deeply degrading way. Mr Jomshof is well aware of this. The female MP of Richard Jomshof's own Swedish-democratic parliamentary group also explains that this reflects a serious anti-women attitude. So this is not something that I am making up here to discredit the Swedish Democratic parliamentary group, but it is a female member of Richard Jomshof's parliamentary group who testifies to the views of the Swedish democrats. Mr President, I would like to In order to combat sex crime, it must be done by police means, by strengthening prosecutors, by strengthening courts and by bringing perpetrators to justice. But there is also a need to increase gender equality in this country and to combat the disgusting view of women that Richard Jomshof and the Swedish Democrats stand for.
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-41	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that Richard Jomshof has an ethnic explanation for crime. I wonder if he believes that the woman who is subjected to rape – one of the worst, most offensive and terrible crimes a person, usually a woman, can be subjected to – somehow thinks it's a little better if the offender is ethnically Swedish. Would there be any difference in the nature of the crime depending on the ethnic background of the perpetrator? I am of the directly opposite opinion. The crime of rape is just as disgusting regardless of the perpetrator's ethnic background or, for that matter, whether the perpetrator happens to be married or cohabiting with the victim or not. Mr President, I would like to I come back to what I said earlier: Every woman in Sweden has the right to demand from the Swedish government that we do everything in the government's power to prevent rape, to increase the security of women and girls and to prosecute crimes committed. This government does. We are now working to strengthen sexual crime legislation. We have presented a national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women. We have commissioned the Police Authority to develop its working methods against rape and other sexual crimes. We're strengthening the police with $2 billion. We have developed a new crime prevention programme with a structured and long-term crime prevention work. That is what women have the right to make demands on.
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-44	Mr President, I would like to But you don't do everything. You are not doing everything you can to remedy the situation. In fact, it is you who are the main explanation for its origin. And no, there's no ethnic explanation. The explanation that it looks like it does is, on the one hand, a policy that you represent, and, on the other hand, the cultural structures that exist among men who commit this kind of terrible and disgusting act. I would like to say to the previous Social Democrat who was up here in the pulpit trying to ralli that we could, in itself, talk about the Social Democratic Member of Parliament who, with his trousers on half a pole, molested another Social Democratic Member of Parliament here in Parliament's corridors. I think he banged on the door and tried to intrude into her room and get some sex. We could also talk about the social democratic election workers who in the election campaign bought six of vulnerable women. I even think they were pulled up into the LO castle where, as I said, you had sex with them. Is that how you behave in the Social Democrats? There are other examples to be taken up, but we can also stick to the subject matter, and I will do that for the moment that is left here. I believe that if we are to tackle the major problems that actually exist in Sweden, the problems that the Minister has been involved in creating, we must start by being honest. We must begin by recognising the problems that actually exist. Otherwise, we will never be able to remedy the problems; we will never be able to do anything about this. It does not help to mock another Member of Parliament or try to sweep the problems under the carpet. The problems are out there. It's just that simple, and that's what I'm discussing. Stick to the point. That would make it easier. To those of you who are sitting at home watching the debate, I would like to say that I think this is somewhat comical and I hope you understand that the Minister and the current government have no answers. They will not be able to remedy these problems. They are in fact responsible for the fact that the problems have arisen. I hope you understand that. This is extremely serious. I know that there are people out there who have started to wake up and who have begun to understand what is happening and who is responsible for and guilty of the situation.
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-51	Mr President, I would like to No, Richard Jomshof, it would be strange for me to gloat over something as nasty as sexual crime and Swedish democrats. This is a deeply serious concern, and the quote I gave the House is directly from Richard Jomshof's own parliamentary group, where his own parliamentary colleague describes that a woman is being treated in a deeply degrading way and that it reflects a serious anti-women's attitude. If we are now to talk about cultures, Mr President, I would like to say that Richard Jomshof does not represent a very good culture in terms of equality or the view of women and women's rights. If I may take a few more examples, Richard Jomshof is the party secretary for a party that praises a site that spreads racist propaganda, hangs out people and children and urges readers to persecute children online. There are representatives, speaking of sex crime, who have said that many victims could have avoided being raped if they were more careful. This view of public conversation in general and of women and women's rights in particular are part of the problems that need to be addressed in order to deal with sexual crime in the future. I would like to point out once again that it is of course the police, prosecutors and courts who are to hold the perpetrators to account. It goes without saying that society should have strong protection for victims in general and for victims of sexual offences in particular. But we must also fight throughout society against the anti-female attitude of Richard Jomshof and the Swedish Democrats.
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-55	Mr President, I would like to Sex crime statistics are influenced by the definition of sex offences that have changed, by the view of sex offences that are less permissive and by the propensity to report. We want a non-admissive view of sexual crimes, we want a broad definition of sexual offences and we want every crime to be reported. The statistics are complex, as the Crime Prevention Council also states, and I have already answered Mr Jomshof's question. Mr Jomshof thinks that this debate that we are currently having is comical. Think, I find nothing funny at all in this debate. Certainly not. We are talking about serious crimes, one of the worst crimes that a human being, usually a woman, can be subjected to. Mr President, I would like to Politicians, not least politicians who have been given the extremely honourable task of representing the people of Sweden in the Swedish parliament or for that matter to lead Sweden in the Swedish government as a minister, have a responsibility for their words and for what words they use. I take responsibility for my words, Mr President. If something doesn't get quite right, I'll correct it. I hope that in future Mr Jomshof will also take responsibility for his words.
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-58	Mr President, I would like to Johan Forssell has asked me whether the government intends to take any initiatives to change the legislation in order to prevent minor mistakes and technicalities leading to people losing their work permits and being expelled. First of all, I would like to remind you that it was the previous government that introduced today's regulations that the opposition now describes as difficult. Current legislation is not just a tangled one, in my opinion. It's deeply unfair. If the employer makes a mistake, it is still the employee who has to take the whole blow. In addition, the employer cannot correct the error, even if he or she discovers it afterwards. It is clear that the regulatory framework needs to be changed. Last December, I received the report "Strengthening the position of labour migrants in the labour market" (SOU 2016:91), which addresses, among other things, the situation described by Johan Forssell. The investigator proposes an opportunity for employers who have not fulfilled the conditions on which a previously issued work permit was based to correct such deficiencies before the Migration Agency checks the matter. The government believes that such an opportunity must exist because otherwise it will have far-reaching negative consequences for the migrant labour force. In addition to losing their source of income, the person may also be forced to leave the country. It is also negative for employers and for Swedish skills supply as attractive and qualified labour is lost due to minor mistakes. The report has been referred to. Most consultation bodies welcome the investigation's proposals regarding so-called self-healing. At the same time, the government believes that even serious employers sometimes become aware that the conditions have not been fulfilled until after the reminder from the Migration Board. The government is therefore now also going on to investigate an opportunity to correct minor, non-intentional, mistakes after the Migration Agency has pointed out shortcomings in the conditions during previous permit periods. In this context, it is important to remember that there must be a balance between the need for flexibility and the need to combat abuse. Lack of control risks contributing to the exploitation of individual workers and the erosion of the Swedish labour market model. Good terms and conditions shall apply to all persons working in Sweden. It is therefore important that a provision allowing employers to correct previous shortcomings in the conditions does not allow labour migrants to be exploited by employers. The issue raised by Johan Forssell is a priority, and the Government intends to present proposals this spring with the aim of addressing the current problem.
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-66	Mr President, I would like to Now we are going to switch to a perhaps less controversial subject than the previous debate. But this subject is also very important. It is about labour migration and the processing times at the Finnish Immigration Service. I have put two interpellations to be debated today. There will soon be another one in which we have a broader perspective on this important issue. Before the debate starts, let me remind you that Sweden has a very long history of labour immigration. It has been going on for decades. It has, if you generalize, come people to Sweden from different countries during different times – from Greece, former Yugoslavia and of course Finland. If you look at the Swedish economy today, you can see that it is doing well in many ways. Bnp growth is strong, which we should be happy about. At the same time, we can see that there are capacity shortages in several different sectors. It is difficult to recruit not least expertise. That's a problem. The regulatory framework that surrounds labour migration has been rather restrictive for a long time. It hasn't been easy. The very symbol of this was that labour market test between trade unions and employers. It came to change during the time of the alliance government. Sweden got a better and much more modern regulations. It created opportunities for more people to come to Sweden and contribute their work, pay taxes and find a future here in Sweden. This has been good for our country for economic reasons, but it has also led to immigration that is more similar to what immigration looks like in our surrounding world. Sweden has otherwise distinguished itself by having a high proportion of asylum immigration and a small proportion of labour migration. But this reform made Sweden a more attractive country to come to. It's been good. Mr President, I would like to Now, however, there is a problem. These are the very long processing times at the Finnish Immigration Service. The first time you apply for it takes an average of five months before you get a reply. And when it is decided to extend it takes another seven months. It sometimes goes faster, and that is, of course, positive. But sometimes it takes even longer– these are, as I understand it, average figures. The development is also going in the wrong direction. Waiting times have increased sharply in just two years. This makes a mess, for the individual who lives with great uncertainty, will I be able to take this job? It also makes a mess for the individual company-- can we recruit this person? Is it even worth trying? We already know that the latter has weakened Sweden's competitiveness. We are no longer as attractive a country to recruit to. It is quite clear that large employers are concerned about this. Sweden is still good in many ways. But we are not as good as we could be, and we are not as good as we should be. The long waiting times must be shortened. The exercise of official authority is always the exercise of official authority. But there is no law of nature that says it should take so long. To shorten these waiting periods and focus on this is, of course, first and foremost a task for the Migration Agency, although the ultimate responsibility lies with the government. Mr President, I would like to One thing is quite clear. If Sweden is to be a country with world-class companies, with a business environment and innovations that are absolutely world-class, our authorities must also be world-class.
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-77	Mr President, I would like to I suspect Johan Forssell has taken the wrong script. He is talking about the processing times at the Finnish Immigration Service. We will talk about this in the next interpellation debate. And I'll be happy to answer those questions when we get there. But this debate is about the first of Johan Forssell's interpellations, that is, about the situation where the system does not really work properly, that there are shortcomings. To take up the hook in Johan Forssell's introduction, I can say that it is absolutely right that we have a long history of labour migration. It is also right that the Swedish economy is doing well and that the labour market has become stronger in recent years. Unemployment is falling. Long-term unemployment is falling. Youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years. And we have 100,000 vacancies. That is the highest figure in many years. Then, of course, there are inadequacies. Some of them can be filled with labour from Sweden, which has that competence. Other things you have to search abroad to find. It is therefore absolutely right that we need labour immigration to cover these shortages. Johan Forssell believes that the bourgeois government produced modern legislation on labour immigration. In his interpellation, he describes it as snoring. I would like to say that it is legislation that has at least two major problems. One problem is precisely what I pointed out in my reply: if the employer should do something wrong – by the way, it could be intentional or just a minor mistake – it is the employee who is taking the whole blow. It is the employee who is being expelled. It is the employees who lose their jobs while the employer hardly risks anything, except perhaps getting rid of a good employee but nothing else. It is the employees who basically take the whole blow. It's pure class legislation, in my opinion. And we need to correct that. The second major problem is the almost Kafka situation that occurs when the employer realizes in retrospect that: ahjdå, we were wrong a few years ago. Maybe we didn't pay the right pensions. Maybe we didn't have the right deal. But it was a minor error, and it was not intentional. With today's system, there is no possibility for that employer to heal it himself. That's what this interpellation is about. This is what we saw after the election. And to review these issues, we set up an investigation. I received the report on 15 December, and we will proceed with that. There will be a proposal already this spring. In May, we will be able to complete the legislative referral. After that, we will proceed to Parliament with the proposal for self-healing. A little later, there is also the proposal on criminal liability for employers, in order to prevent fraud. Cheating occurs. There are errors that are not willful, but there are also those that are willful. A few years ago, a survey was carried out – in the investigation to which I referred. 500 cases were looked at in the restaurant, cleaning and construction sectors. 30% of work permits had to be revoked because the conditions of employment simply did not correspond to what had been promised from the outset. The balance is about that very thing. There must be a chance for serious employers who have made mistakes without intent to do the right thing and heal the damage. But the rogue employers must be dealt with. The system we're supposed to have must be fair. That is why we are now taking steps to correct some of the shortcomings of the old legislation.
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-87	Mr President, I would like to So we are going to talk about labour migration in general. The President will see this as a sign of my frustration at the length of the proceedings and the non-functioning regulatory framework. These things, the processing times and the fact that the regulations are not good enough, are still connected. When it comes to expulsions, there are many problems in Swedish migration policy today. It's been there for a long time. We have dealt with them in this House on many occasions. Children have been mixed with adults in asylum homes. In practice, we have had a completely non-existent supply requirement in the event of family immigration. We've had very long waiting times, and so on. All that is trouble. The fact that people come to Sweden who want to help make this country better with their work is not a problem. I think that many people almost tie their fists in their pockets when they read about large but also small companies that today have highly educated and coveted labour who do a good job but who, due to minor errors, often past years in time, almost mechanically will be expelled. It's a big problem. Just a month ago, I read a debate article entitled "Do not expel our experts." Some fifteen representatives of large companies have signed the article. They describe that this is a problem, but also that the proposals put forward by the government are inadequate and that many of them are going in the wrong direction. It is perhaps only about self-justification that one sees a small step forward, but it is insufficient. Looking at the labour force in general, the government is now moving in a different direction, and I find that boring. As we have said before, there are major capacity shortages. Sweden is now competing in a global league with other cities such as New York, Silicon Valley and some other European countries. Then we have to be on our toes. We don't have a big home market that we can lean back on. We cannot take things for granted, but we need a regulatory framework that is good and modern and that opens up for the sought-after workforce so that it can come to Sweden and contribute its work to make the country better. After all, the latter part of the legislation to take a strong stand against cheating originates from the time of the Alliance Government, and I am well aware that the Social Democrats were behind it. The legislation came into force at the end of the last parliamentary term. Like all reforms, it must be constantly evaluated. It must be followed up and improved when called for. We from the Alliance have now raised this issue for almost a year and have not received any response, but I welcome the fact that the government has now begun to look at it somewhat. Mr President, I would like to I believe that the idea of self-justification is not enough. A form of proportionality assessment should be carried out in which minor errors should not automatically, almost mechanically, lead to expulsion. We cannot have it so if we are serious about Sweden having a regulation that is modern and that creates the conditions for people to come to Sweden to work. I hope that the government will listen to the Alliance on this issue and make this possible.
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-97	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, your legislation did not enter into force at the end of the last parliamentary term. Your legislation came into force in 2008, so it has a number of years on its back. Secondly, we Social Democrats were already critical of the lack of control mechanisms at the time. Thirdly, Johan Forssell talks about the vigil. One of the first things that we did was to set up a review of this particular regulatory framework. I received a report on 15 December and we are now moving on to these proposals. No, it's not a problem that people come here and work. But it is a problem if these people are exploited and exploited in our labour market if they are allowed to work for $10 an hour and live in a basement. It is a problem, and so must Johan Forssell. There must be rules that allow what you are promised before you come here in the form of wages, insurance contracts and other conditions to be met when you come here, so that you are not deceived. It's that simple, really. There are two problems in your 2008 legislation. One is that if the employer makes a mistake, then it will be the employee who takes the whole blow. It is pure class legislation in that respect. The second problem is that, should it be the case that mistakes have been made by mistake, the employer cannot correct them afterwards. That is also a major concern. That is exactly what we are now moving on to. As early as spring, there will be a legislative proposal to change that relationship. Then Johan Forssell says: Yes, but there are further problems that the referral bodies have pointed out. That's exactly right. They have pointed out, among other things, two other situations. If the Migration Agency detects minor errors that are not intentional, should it also be possible for the Migration Agency to heal that damage? Or if the problem lies with another employer – it may be another employer who has made mistakes in the past and who after a few years turns out not to have lived up to the right conditions – how to deal with that situation? That is why I said a few weeks ago that these two points too must be over. But we start with self-healing and then we move on with criminal responsibility. I think that it must cost the employer when they deliberately fail to meet the demands that the employee has been promised. If an employer brings people from the other side of the earth who have to change their whole life, then you have to live up to the requirements that you have imposed on yourself and the promises that you have made. It's the only pure thing I think. As I said, we knew your legislation was bad and ill-considered. It turned out to be even worse than we thought. One of the first things we did after we took office was to set up a review. And we are now continuing the process of correcting the shortcomings that exist.
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-108	Mr President, I would like to I know the story of labour immigration. As I said in my speech and was clear, I was referring to the changes in controls that came into force in 2014. I am well aware that the Social Democrats supported them. However, as I have also said, all reforms must be monitored and evaluated at all times, and that is the responsibility of this government. Morgan Johansson has now been Minister of Migration for almost 30 months. The recurring idea that all the shortcomings of today stem from another government is becoming quite difficult to assert. Mr President, I would like to The problem and what the Minister for Migration is saying is that there seems to be a deep into the social democracy a picture of labour immigration being synonymous with over-exploitation and with vulnerable people. Just read the first words of the report referred to by the Minister for Migration: The extent to which migrant workers are exploited on the Swedish labour market should be investigated. The word is used several times in the text. As you ask, you get answers. Of course, there are problems with this in the labour market, and we shall take them vigorously. But the whole picture is that labour migration as such is very negative, it is about vulnerability and exploitation. Why has the government not asked itself the following question: How can Sweden become a more attractive country to come to and work in? Spotify, for example, now has 15 highly trained IT programmers threatened with expulsion. How are we going to prevent this from happening? Then we can't have a discussion about people who work for 10 kroner an hour, that's something completely different. No, Morgan Johansson, the Alliance has put concrete proposals on Parliament's table. They can be implemented. This would be good for the government, but it would be good for Sweden in particular.
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-114	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is an attractive country because of our economy, because of our strong labour market and because we have 100,000 job vacancies. There are a lot of people who want to come to Sweden and work. The problem when Johan Forssell discusses this is that he has a blind spot. He does not see that there is a risk that some of these people may be exploited. You have to be able to keep those two thoughts in your head at the same time. There are lots of people who come to Sweden, work here, live their lives and get excellent conditions. But there are also cases where people do not get the conditions they have been promised. They are simply blown by those who have brought them here. The dream they had about Sweden being a good country to work in is completely ruined. These are the cases you have to be awake to. That's why we set up the investigation. It is about strengthening the position of labour immigrants on the labour market and basically an employee perspective. But Johan Forssell has only one employer's perspective, and never do the Moderates have an employee's perspective. Sweden should be an attractive country for those who want to come here and work. At the same time, we are going to make sure that those who come here and work get the nicest conditions. If we do not do that, we will disrupt the competitive environment in the Swedish labour market. We will ensure that labour immigrants are not exploited. At the same time, we shall ensure that the shortcomings that exist in the legislation of the bourgeois government regarding, for example, self-healing are rectified. That is why we are going to Parliament this spring with what we call the question of self-healing.
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-120	Mr President, I would like to Johan Forssell has asked me what initiatives I intend to take to shorten the Migration Agency's processing times for work permits. Sweden is one of the world's most competitive and innovative countries. Globalisation creates great opportunities for strong exports, but also fierce competition for our business and labour markets. Sweden needs good access to skilled labour in order to remain competitive. In recent years, approximately 4,000 computer specialists and civil engineers have received a work permit in Sweden. They contribute to growth, job creation and welfare. The regulatory framework that we have gives companies great flexibility and good opportunities to recruit the necessary staff. Although the average processing time for labour market cases has increased, the processing time varies considerably between different categories of cases. For example, the average processing time for data specialists is 36 days. The fact that these processing times are shorter than average is due to the fact that many of these applications are complete and correct and therefore do not require either additional or additional checks. In sectors where there is a greater risk of errors, the processing time is longer, as the Migration Agency in these sectors needs to do more extensive checks. In general terms, however, the Finnish Immigration Service's processing times for work permits are too long. The government has therefore taken a number of measures. The Finnish Immigration Service has been commissioned to streamline the processing of work permits. In February, the Finnish Immigration Service reported back to the Government an action plan to shorten processing times for work permits. The Action Plan is ambitious and includes actions in several areas. The Government will closely monitor the implementation of the Migration Agency's action plan. The Government has also commissioned the Finnish Immigration Service to develop a strategy for information and service. Clear information about what applies to get a work permit in Sweden enables an increased degree of complete applications, which in turn can shorten the processing time. These include, for example, information on which advertising routes are best suited and which insurance policies are needed. It should simply be easy for companies that want to hire and invest in Sweden to make their applications right. In this context, however, it is important to stress that there must be a balance between the need for prompt treatment and the need to combat abuse. Lack of control risks contributing to the exploitation of individual workers and the erosion of the Swedish labour market model. Good terms and conditions shall apply to all persons working in Sweden.
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-127	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! We will move forward in the discussion on labour migration. The previous interpellation debate concerned the fact that, unfortunately, due to minor errors, we are, today, almost mechanically deporting highly qualified highly sought-after personnel who come to Sweden and work. This interpellation debate is about the fact that it is difficult to obtain authorisation at all. At least it often takes a very long time to get to Sweden and work. It takes time in both instances – both when applying to come to Sweden for the first time and also at the later stage, when trying to get a decision on an extension. I do not need to repeat the historical description I made earlier of how labour migration has affected Sweden. It has in many ways been very positive, both for individuals who have had a better future and for Sweden as a nation. For decades Greeks, people from former Yugoslavia, Finns and many others have thus been able to have a better future in our country. But there are now a number of problems. Let me say from the outset that Sweden is still attractive in many ways. We don't think differently there. The point here is that Sweden is not as good as we could be. We're not as good as we should be. I think you should have high ambitions. It is also the rhetoric of the Social Democrats, at least before the previous election movement. This should also apply in this area. It should be easy if you have the papers with you and everything works. Then it should be easy to get a permit, and it should take a short time. But that is not the case today; too often this is taking time. When we look in the annual report for 2016, we can see that it takes several months. It will be quick if the application is duly completed. But there are often problems here. It's tricky and technical. It's not that easy. Many entrepreneurs testify that it is very difficult to get in touch with the Migration Agency at all if you have questions about how to complete the application. I think that's a problem. This has to change. It shouldn't have to take five or seven months before you get a decision, but it has to be quick. As I said earlier, the exercise of authority is always the exercise of authority, but, Mr President, there is no law of nature that says it has to take this long. I would like to point out that it is welcome that the government has now begun to look at this issue and that a mission has been given. I think it's a lot about leadership. The management of the Migration Agency must focus on the issue, dare to make decisions and make sure that the process times are shortened. A comparison can be made with the asylum procedure. According to an internal audit report, Finland, for example, has been much more effective, even per employee. I think it's about leadership. I hope that in his contacts with the management of the Migration Agency, the Minister for Migration really underlines that the Migration Agency must also, in the exercise of its authority, be a service authority that is trying in every way to facilitate. Then the decisions must always be correct. You shouldn't be sloppy. But it must be possible to go faster than five to seven months, for these people cannot afford that. I also believe that few companies can afford it. And Sweden as a nation can actually not afford it either.
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-134	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Sweden is an attractive country to work in. And Sweden has become even more attractive, I would say, because of the strong labour market that we have with an increased craving for labour. Unemployment is falling. Long-term unemployment is falling. Youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years. We have more vacancies than we've ever had as far back as we can measure – over 100,000 job vacancies. Then, of course, people also come here from other countries, and businesses need to recruit people from other countries. That is the foundation, and it is really fantastically positive. Then it is quite right, as I have tried to say, that the processing times at the Migration Agency are too long. That's why we've given the Migration Agency this assignment to shorten them. This applies precisely to the points raised by Johan Forssell, i.e. the service to the companies and the information to the companies about how to make these applications so that it will be right from the start. But it is also a question of redeploying resources. The Finnish Immigration Service has a little over 7 000 employees and worked very hard on asylum issues last year, with over 112 000 decisions in asylum trials. But it is clear that this task is now beginning to be worked away, so to speak. Then you also have the opportunity to redistribute resources, so that more people can work with these cases and thus help to shorten the processing times. When Johan Forssell talks about leadership, I would like to remind you that the processing times in labour matters doubled when you ruled the Migration Agency. From 2010 to 2014, the average processing time increased from 41 days to 90 days – without a refugee crisis. Since then, the processing times have quite rightly increased somewhat, but when you ruled, they increased more than they have now, even though you had no refugee crisis to deal with. What does that say about leadership, Johan Forssell? The length of proceedings varies greatly between occupational groups. I pointed in my interpellation response to IT specialists, a group that is in demand in many places. There is a 36-day processing period. When it comes to the companies that are certified – there is such a system too – that is to say, which is well known to the Migration Agency and as we know, he handles these issues correctly, he is on average 26 days. However, there are also sectors where there is a need to do a little more extra controls. In fact, it was the bourgeois government that introduced those extra controls in 2014; you saw that it had gone wrong from the beginning. This can be about, for example, the hotel and restaurant business, where we know that the risk of cheating is greater. It is in these cases that the processing times are longer, when it is necessary to check that the conditions really are the right ones. It is important that these checks are carried out. Otherwise, the situation we were talking about just now, in the previous interpellation debate, is that people may be exploited in the labour market. We don't want to go there. Mr President, I would like to We have reinforced the Migration Agency. We have given them a new assignment, and they are now working for high pressure to shorten processing times.
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-142	Mr President, I would like to Yes, the immigration minister is pleased. He is satisfied with the regulations and satisfied with Sweden. In many ways, perhaps you should be. Sweden is a fantastic country in many ways. However, as I have pointed out several times, we are not as good as we could be. We're not as good as we should be. At least then my starting point is to try to fix the problems that we see and which, in fact, despite the very positive report by the Minister for Migration, affect a great many people and businesses. Perhaps I should remind you of the article I showed in the previous interpellation debate: Do not expel our experts. It is perhaps 20 – I count quickly – companies and organisations that are very critical of the policy that the Red Green Government is now rolling out about precisely labour migration. At the same time, the problem of expulsions is escalating, which affects both individuals and Sweden who need labour immigrants more than they need us. ..................................................... It also says:"Unfortunately, Parliament's decision was ignored by the government" – this refers to the additional directive that we in the Alliance put forward in the Social Security Committee – and we see that the investigation's proposal adds another wet blanket over labour migration. ..................................................... This is very difficult, Mr President, to reconcile with the description put forward by Morgan Johansson. It is about what we talked about in the previous interpellation debate, namely that the regulatory framework is not modern enough and that today we are almost mechanically deporting people who are highly educated and who are coveted and appreciated in the Swedish labour market – due to minor errors. There will now be another investigation to look at this, immediately after the previous investigation has reported. Yes, it's booming for investigations. If this continues, we will soon be approaching the number of coordinators appointed. But it is also about the processing times. Of course, it was not good if they increased even during the time of the alliance government. But that is no reason to let them continue to increase. We can look at the extension cases. I want to remember that the average time is now over 200 days. It won't hold. We can stand in the Chamber and talk about Sweden being good and that it should be a regulatory framework that makes it easy to come to Sweden. However, if the person applying for an extension is met by 200-day processing times, that discussion is of no value at all. No, it is good that the government now – I would like to point out that it is rather late at some point – has begun to look at this issue. We'll have to wait and see what we can find out. I believe, as I said, that there is much to be done about leadership. Where these decisions are taken, there should be a culture of that there should be just short processing times. For example, I think it is a question of getting a new ordinary Director-General of the Migration Agency in place. I want to remember that it's been more than six months since the earlier announced that he would stop. In this context, I can take the opportunity to ask the Minister for Migration when he sees in front of him that there should be a regular management of this very important authority.
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-150	Mr President, I would like to No, I'm not happy with the processing times. I believe that one of the first things I said in my last speech was that we must ensure that the length of proceedings is reduced. But I also said that we had reinforced the Migration Agency. There's more people working there. We can redistribute resources from asylum processing to these matters. And we have given them a special assignment – we already did this autumn – which is about shortening the processing times. It is, as I said, a lot about service and information for businesses. I also pointed out that there is a great deal of difference depending on the category of occupation involved. When it comes to IT specialists, it's 36 days. In the case of certified companies, it is 26 days. But there are sectors where you need to do extra checks to know that the conditions are really right and that it is a serious employer you are dealing with. This with the controls is actually your legislation from 2014. When you need to do those extra controls, it takes longer. When you were in charge, the processing times doubled. They doubled. Not only did they increase slightly, but they doubled. And this happened without a refugee crisis. It was not very good leadership, I would say. We're strengthening the Migration Agency. We have given them this mission. But I think that Johan Forssell will be the answer to a question. I know what your draft budget says. You came forward last year with a proposal to cut back on the Migration Agency. SEK 500 million – half a billion – you would withdraw from the Migration Agency. Then my question to Johan Forssell is: How are you going to shorten the processing times if you are going to simultaneously terminate hundreds of employees in order to withdraw the 500 million you think should go to tax reductions instead?
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-154	Mr President, I would like to I don't really think the Minister for Migration was thinking right now. It is at this point that there are cuts at the Migration Board – it is about a lot of people, and it is during the red-green government's term of office. But, as I have pointed out, I think it is a lot about leadership. It can be said that the Migration Agency has never had as much resources as it has at the moment. Nevertheless, we have processing times for extension cases of over 200 days. That can't be where the shoe squeezes. There must be something else in this that explains the development. We have said from the Alliance that we want to see a 30-day guarantee on a properly completed application. That motion elected the Red-Green parties to reject it in the Riksdag. I find that boring. It would have provided a clear framework for the Migration Agency: that this is what you should work for. And that could have made it easier. If it is leadership, then, in order to achieve this culture, I would like to repeat my question to the Minister for Migration. Six months have now passed since the previous Director-General announced that he would stop. When can we get a new regular management in place, taking a strong stance on this, focusing on it and perhaps making the necessary changes that need to be made? These may also be structural changes. It is about us being able to get not only a more modern interpretation of the rules but also shorter processing times.
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-158	Mr President, I would like to I say again: when you were in charge, the length of proceedings doubled. They have since continued to increase. But it is also, I would say, because in between, in 2015, we had a major refugee crisis. Johan Forssell says that there are cuts at the Migration Agency. It's happening against that background. For example, we phase out many asylum accommodations. Those who have been granted a residence permit now come to the municipalities. Those who do not receive a residence permit leave Sweden. The suit decreases that way. But I'm talking about your reduction requirements. That is 500 million over and above what the government's budget says. So you have a direct cut-back requirement of half a billion dollars at the Migration Agency. Johan Forssell says in the same breath: N u we must introduce a 30-day warranty. Both parts cannot be done at the same time: raise the requirements and at the same time cut back on the authority. As I said, you showed that last parliamentary term. Once you've ruled, you've never shown that you've been able to do it. But in opposition, you might say a little anything. As far as the Director-General is concerned, it has been a regular recruitment process, which is fully in line with the timetable. We will shortly appoint a new ordinary Director General of the Migration Agency.
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-162	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me whether I and the government intend to take any legislative initiative or take any other measure to achieve a general increase in the penalty value for marital obligation and for the offence of marriage to be generally entitled to a higher level of compensation than in a case specified in the interpellation. He has also asked how I and the government will act to make it safe for the young women who have been exposed to this type of crime to live in our society when the perpetrator is released back into society. Finally, Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me whether I and the government are prepared to review the altar with a 24-year rule similar to that introduced by Denmark. Preventing and combating men's violence against women, including honour-related violence and repression, is a high priority for the Swedish government. There is nothing to defend the fact that young people are forced to marry someone their parents or someone else have decided. A forced marriage involves a major interference in the personal integrity and freedom of the victim, which can have long-term and far-reaching consequences. As Mikael Eskilandersson knows, I am not allowed to comment on individual matters. However, on the issue of the penalty for forced marriage, I can say the following. The crime of forced marriage was introduced by the former government in July 2014. The scale of punishment is prison for a maximum of four years. It is the court that determines, in all the circumstances of the individual case, the criminal value of an individual act. If, at the same time, a person is convicted of several offences, it affects the penalty imposed, and the penalty shall be determined according to the penalty value of the total crime. The government has just set up an investigation to review, among other things, the provision on forced marriage. The mandate includes considering whether the provision should be amended in any way. This includes the scale of the offence. In addition, the assignment includes a decision on whether to introduce a special penalty for crimes with honorary motives. There is no doubt that crimes with honorary motives are serious and are to be judged rigorously. It is therefore very good that these issues are now being investigated. When it comes to damages, the starting point for Swedish law is that damages are to be paid in full to an injured party for the damage that has occurred to him or her. In the case of damage which can be calculated in economic terms, the Court may determine compensation to that end. If someone seriously violates someone else by crime, there is damage in the form of suffering or discomfort. These damages must also be compensated, and this is done through so-called violation compensation. It is not possible to establish in the legal text any precise amounts or detailed calculation models for such compensation. There are, however, some starting points. Circumstances that should be of particular importance are, for example, how long a violation has been going on, whether it has been directed against someone with special difficulties to protect himself or if someone has abused someone else's dependence. The circumstances on which the offence is based can thus lead to higher compensation for violations. In terms of protection and support for women who are victims of crime, the government is carrying out strong work involving a wide range of measures. Each municipality has the ultimate responsibility for ensuring that individuals receive the support and assistance they need. The Social Welfare Board should be able to offer assistance services of various kinds at a very early stage to a woman who needs it. These may include decisions on financial assistance, assistance with sheltered housing, advisory and supportive discussions, appointment of contact person, communication of contacts with other authorities and NGOs, assistance in searching for new housing, contacts with the Police Authority and the other judicial authorities when reporting to the police, and efforts for potential children. If necessary, support and protection can also be obtained from the Police Authority within the framework of its local personal security work. The government has also greatly strengthened women's shelters and victim victims' shelters, which have never had as much resources as they currently have. With regard to the last issue of family immigration, I would just like to say briefly the following. Sweden is, unlike Denmark, bound by the EU's family reunification directive. The Directive allows Member States, in order to ensure better integration and prevent forced marriages, to require that the associate and his/her spouse have reached a minimum age of not more than 21 years before the spouse can be reunited with the associate. In Sweden, a residence permit may be refused for a spouse if one of the spouses is less than 21 years old, and the family reunification directive thus prevents a requirement for a higher age than that. There is therefore no point in considering a higher minimum age. Mikael Eskilandersson can be sure that I and the government are doing what we can to prevent someone being forced to marry or subjected to other types of honor-related violence or oppression.
i-6AEcq9rvfTfHaxaNfsz4vx	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Morgan Johansson, for your answer! My interpellation is, indeed, largely based on the individual case that came to be the first case of forced marriage which led to a conviction in court of law. As the Supreme Court denied leave to appeal, this judgment became a guide for other forthcoming judgments. I know that Morgan Johansson is not allowed to comment on individual cases, but I would still like to give a background to my questions. The story behind this is brief: A young girl born in 1993 meets a guy here in Sweden who she falls in love with and starts to meet in secret. This happens in 2013, so she is then 20 years old. The father finds out about this and rejects the boyfriend as a husband-to-be. Instead, he wants her daughter to marry a male relative in Afghanistan, so that she can have a better life here in Sweden. That's how it's expressed in the verdict. The daughter refuses, but after the brother has been commissioned to ensure that she does not meet her boyfriend and after threats that include killing herself from a height, which implicitly refers to the young women who fall from balconies and the like when they dishonored their family, which is sometimes explained as suicide, although it should not be more common among immigrant women than among others to want to take their lives before others who watch, she nevertheless agrees to travel to Afghanistan, with the promise of having to marry only if she wants to. This happens in 2015, so she is then about 22 years old. Once she gets there, she'll be forced to marry. The father and a friend of his also takes away the daughter's boyfriend here in Sweden and robs and beats him as part of definitely trying to end their relationship. In the judgment, the father and his friend are convicted of several crimes against the boyfriend. In the district court, it is argued that the father has been the more driving force in the crimes against the boyfriend, so there the father gets three and a half years for the crimes against the boyfriend, while his friend gets three years. Then the marriage floor and threats are added to the daughter, in which only the father was involved. The sentence value will then be increased to four years, according to the district court. The Court of Appeal for similar reasoning, where the penalty for the other person, the father's friend, is said to be three years old. Since the father has been more driven, his punishment should be somewhat longer. In total, the father's sentence is set at four years, as the district court has previously done. It is striking here that the crime against the girl is seen as so much less serious, and one might wonder why. Now you should be careful about the conclusions you draw, because the court of law does not specify as well as the district court what they actually judge the father to when it comes to the crimes against the boyfriend. There is also a penalty discount that takes place. The penalty discount is usually based on the idea that the most serious crime brings full punishment and the second most severe gives half the penalty. This is what is commonly called the penalty value of total crime, but which in ordinary people is rather called a penalty discount. Overall, one might ask whether a maximum of four years for forced marriage is a real position. Is that where the punishment should lie?
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-186	Mr President, I would like to The government's basic position is that we should look strictly at these crimes, and that is precisely why we have just added the review that we have done. I am not speaking in any individual cases, but we have already said that there may be reason to look at the scale of penalties in these parts, both for marital obligation and for child marriage. We have also added the task of looking at a special penalty for honour-related crimes. It was an issue that we Social Democrats pushed here in Parliament in opposition and with which we are now moving on to become government policy. So I do not think that we disagree on this point – that these are crimes to be viewed strictly and that society should do everything possible to prosecute as well. Besides, I think we need to do more. We must not only ensure that we punish the crimes committed afterwards, but also do everything we can to try to prevent these crimes from being committed at all. Today, therefore, I have announced that we will do one more thing, namely to give the current investigation an additional mission to also develop the legal possibilities of, for example, in that situation when it is suspected that someone will be taken out of the country to be married away, to stop these journeys by, for example, seizing passports or imposing an exit ban on people. We also want to look at the model that exists in the UK, forced marriage protection orders, where you can actually make demands on relatives to tell where their children are. If they do not tell them, they too may be punished. In Britain it is prison for up to five years. So we are moving on to this, as I have told you today. In Dagens Nyheter there is an article where I describe what this additional assignment should look like. The government looks at the penalty rates and develops measures to stop these forced marriages from being concluded at all. What do the Swedish Democrats do? Unfortunately, your record on the matter is not very good. I mentioned in my interpellation response what the government has done for women's shelters and victims' shelters, that is, to provide protection, support and assistance to the women and children who are subjected to forced marriages. Almost the first thing Mikael Eskilandersson did when he entered the Riksdag after the 2014 elections was that he voted down our draft budget. The draft budget included an extra SEK 100 million for women's shelters. Now we have got the proposal through in later budgets, but he would rather put down the whole government budget and therefore such an effort. In my view, this does not indicate much commitment on the part of the Swedish democrats. I have looked at your budget motion from last autumn to see if these issues are there. There is not a word about crime victims' shelters or women's shelters. What is it really like, Mikael Eskilandersson, with your commitment to the issue?
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-194	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that we seem to agree that the maximum penalty should be increased for this type of crime. It is striking that the Government takes up an example of another crime that could possibly be introduced, namely to be obliged to tell you where your child is. If you do not, you can get up to five years in prison, that is, one year more than is currently the maximum sentence for forced marriage. I note that Morgan Johansson wishes to state that the Swedish Democrats have done nothing on this point. It's not really true if we're going to see what's actually happened. In 2015, the Committee on Civil Liberties had its debate in plenary on family law. At that time, I was the only one who wanted to close the gaps in child and forced marriages and also raise the penalties. This is something that we have raised motions about since I entered the Riksdag. So that we would not have done anything is a directly wrong picture. The interesting thing was that in 2015 Morgan Johansson's party colleagues were not at all interested in looking at the law. Nor was the Alliance interested in reviewing anything – this even though we knew at the time that there were young women who were exposed to both forced and child marriages. This happened despite the new strengthened laws that came into force in 2014. Two years later, in March 2017, we had a new debate in this House. All of a sudden, all parties agreed that we had to review the laws. It is interesting how the policy of the Swedish Democrats has gone from being something that we alone stand for in two years to suddenly being something that we all agree on. It is also interesting that before then the civil committee threatened the government with writing a law on forced marriage. It is perhaps a bit of what got the work going so that the government parties also supported a review. Otherwise, the civil committee itself could have initiated a change in the law, but it is much more complicated if the civil committee is to do so. It is, of course, easier if the government does. Morgan Johansson also claims that the government is doing what it can to prevent forced marriages and honour-related violence or oppression, but it is clearly not to be interpreted as doing everything it can. One thing is deliberately chosen away, namely to talk to the Swedish Democrats. Nevertheless, on some of these points, the Swedish Democrats and the Social Democrats should be much easier to reach agreement than the Alliance and the government. It has chosen not to invite the Swedish Democrats to discussions. Instead, they use a classic ruling technique that calls others to meetings and shuts us out of transparency and information. Now the government is soon the only one to have that attitude towards the Swedish Democrats. All parties in the Alliance have flagged for wanting to lower government policies and government ministers with SD support in various ways. While the Alliance does not agree on how, it agrees that it wants to take SD support in different ways. It is not possible to do anything for either the Center Party, the Liberals or anyone else without our support. I would like Morgan Johansson to listen a little to what I have to say, and that is why I woke up the interpellation in order to force him into the Chamber.
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-201	Mr President, I would like to Let me first address the point Mikael Eskilandersson made last on how the Alliance is currently acting. I take it that the Alliance seems to agree that you should do everything you can to sabotage the government, but you cannot agree exactly how to sabotage the government. There we are right now. As far as the issue is concerned, we need to have history clear. This legislation was introduced on 1 July 2014. When it was discussed in Parliament – I was chairman of the Committee on Justice on that occasion – we from the Socialist side said that we must make an evaluation of the legislation when it has been in force for some time. There's a reservation. Already at that time we said that we must see how the law will work. That is precisely the evaluation we are now making. In addition to an evaluation and assessment, we have also asked the investigator, the Justice Council, Mari Heidenborg, to look at the penalties for both forced marriage and child marriage, as well as the penalty issue for honour-related crimes. It was also an issue that we Social Democrats pushed in opposition. I told him about the additional assignment we're going to give the investigator. It is important to do both: on the one hand, take a strict look at criminal offences and, on the other hand, do what is possible to prevent them. The instrument that exists in the UK, what is called forced marriage protection o rder, seems to be effective. In Britain, the crime is five years in prison. I'm not going to lock myself up at anything, but we're giving the assignment to the investigator to look at what a Swedish model could look like. With this work, the ball is transferred to some extent from the municipalities to the state. Today, there is an opportunity for municipalities to take care of children under the Act on the Care of Young People and in this way stop forced departure to be married away – but this is done to a too small extent. By doing so, it is the state and the judiciary that act in a more coherent and effective way. The supplementary directive to be decided by the government shows that we need to be much better at providing support and assistance to the m– usually girls– who have already been taken out of the country so that they can return home to Sweden. Here we can find examples from Norway and also from the UK. They have a good cooperation with the countries it can be about, are more active and have better routines to save the girls it's actually about so that they can come back. I did not really get an answer to my question as to where the Swedish democratic commitment is actually located. The first thing Mikael Eskilandersson did when he entered the Chamber after the 2014 elections was that he voted down the government's budget. There was a large investment in women's shelters and crime victims' shelters of SEK 100 million. The government has subsequently managed to bring about this effort, but where is your commitment? Why do you not write in your budget motions a single word about women's shelters or crime victims' shelters?
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-209	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that we can agree on the penalty value. These women's lives should be worth more than, for example, a car, yet, in some cases, the use of means of transport can result in much longer penalties than forced marriage. We believe that the value of women must be increased in society. It is gratifying that the Minister also has the same point of view. Then there was the question of our attitude and why we decided on the budget. It was not a question of individual budget lines, but of the overall effect. In addition, there was a promise from Stefan Löfven that he would resign in the event that the budget could not be heard in the Chamber. Now Stefan Löfven chose to abandon his promise after we had passed the budget, but at least we saw it as a way of getting something more to influence. Overall, four years as a maximum is far too low a penalty. What to think about there is that the punishment for rape, for example, has a minimum of two years. There's no minimum requirement for marriage. Nevertheless, rape in practice is part of that crime, because it is hardly anyone who believes that a woman who is married against her will in Afghanistan will volunteer for the coming wedding night. In Afghanistan, however, it is not punishable to have sex with your wife against her will. There is therefore no way of punishing for this. I think it is a pity that we cannot have a review of the possibility of introducing a 24-year rule, even if we have the answer that it would not be possible. I'm afraid I can't make it any further than that.
i-2397525d0e4f2ab5-215	Mr President, I would like to Again, society should be strict about this type of crime. That is why we have legislation in essence. We Social Democrats already said when the law was introduced in 2014 that we needed to make an evaluation. We're doing that evaluation now. We ask the investigator to look at the penalties for both forced marriage and child marriage, but also at a special penalty for honour-related crimes. We also give an additional assignment to be better at preventing so that the cases may never happen where someone is forced away. It is about the possibility of seizing passports and the possibility of forcing relatives to tell us where their children or other relatives are if one suspects that such coercion has occurred. We will also develop our foreign administrations' work to bring these girls back to Sweden. It can by all means also be guys in some cases. Then, Mr President, it finally came to the conclusion that the Swedish Democrats wanted to cut the budget and thus the big investment in women's shelters that we went forward with in 2014. For the Swedish Democrats, the most important thing of all was to convict Stefan Löfven. It was more important than making major investments in women's shelters and crime victims' shelters. The most important thing for you was to convict Stefan Löfven, Prime Minister. So anyone who doesn't care so much about the issue but who only cares about the political game.
