i-U6gRqn7sFcLXNnBczwKLG3	Mr President, I would like to Today, then, we are going to examine the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the basis of the Government's annual letter on the activities of the European Union, together with the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the White Paper on the future of the European Union. 60 years ago, the European Union was founded in Rome, and over these 60 years, European cooperation has contributed to peace, security and growth in Europe. In 60 years, the EU has become the world's largest single market, the largest trading power and the largest donor of development aid. At the same time, after 60 years, the Union now faces major challenges. The Union has been weakened in recent years by the euro and refugee crises, security challenges, high unemployment and the negative effects of globalisation. And for the first time since the Union was formed, one Member State has chosen to leave the EU. There are major differences of opinion within the Union: what will the future relationship with Britain look like? What will the EU's relationship with Russia look like? How should financial austerity policy be managed? Do you want more federalism in relation to national decision-making rights withdrawn or not? Migration issues, budgetary constraints, the influence of non-euro countries on decisions taken by euro area countries but affecting the whole of the EU, free trade and how to deal with the free movement of people within the Union are some of the issues that the Union must address. In addition, the fundamental values of the EU are challenged by a number of Member States. Mr President, I would like to We must recognise that there are serious shortcomings in European cooperation. Therefore, Sweden must press for what are key issues in order to restore confidence in European cooperation. The situation requires constructive and forward-looking leadership. The EU has failed to solve major common challenges. Dissatisfaction with development is found not only in the UK but also at home. More projects over people's heads or beyond democratic roots are not the answer to the concern and dissatisfaction we are seeing today. On the other hand, however, only a well-functioning Europe can cope with many of the challenges we face in the future. Many cross-border issues can only be resolved through European cooperation. The EU is neither more nor less than the world's best functioning cooperation between democratic countries. The EU's most important task in this difficult and challenging time is to safeguard what the Member States have achieved jointly and, on this basis, to use all the opportunities and tools already available to meet the challenges. It is therefore important to continue the current approach, but with a better focus on the issues that are most important for Europe's prosperity and growth. It concerns the content and priorities of the EU budget, the implementation of the legislation of the single market as a whole, increased cooperation in the field of justice and a sustainable migration policy. Today, there are different forms of cooperation in which not all Member States participate. For us, it is vital to safeguard the principle that what concerns the EU-27, that is, the remaining 27 Member States of the EU, should also be discussed by the EU-27. We Moderates do not want to see a move towards a two-speed Europe. Such a development would most likely lead to the marginalisation of Sweden in the EU. We Moderates also want to see the development, efficiency and improvement of intergovernmental EU cooperation in areas where there is clear added value in cross-border cooperation. This applies, for example, to migration, the environment and climate and the fight against terrorism. We want to deepen and complete the internal market. But we do not want to see expanded or more federal structures. EU cooperation should be used precisely to find solutions to cross-border problems. However, problems that are best dealt with at national level do not need and should not be dealt with by the EU. Cooperation should focus on areas that bring real added value to Europe's population. We want to safeguard national competence in areas such as the labour market, family law and taxation. In this new environment, Sweden within the EU must create new alliances on priority issues. For our influence in the EU depends entirely on our being able to bring together like-minded people on matters that are of importance to us, for example with the Nordic and Baltic countries, but also with other countries where we see that we have common interests. Here the government has to work even more actively than today, because it is precisely by building alliances that it is gaining influence in the European Union. Mr President, I would like to We also want to see a reformed budget, where the EU focuses on becoming more competitive. We will review the forms of regional and structural funds in order to use the EU budget as efficiently as possible, with better audit and analysis of results and transparency. Why is a competitive Europe so important? Because that is what brings prosperity, jobs and good welfare to those living in Europe. Mr President, I would like to We want to push for a re-prioritisation of the budget and a reduction in expenditure when the UK leaves the EU. We say no to EU taxes in some form. We believe that the EU should continue to be funded with the BNI-related charges – this in order for Europe to become more competitive and to be able to create growth, jobs and welfare. We need to do more to meet the EU's commitments on the free movement of people, capital, goods and services and to strengthen the internal market in order to increase competitiveness and productivity. We want to see more free trade agreements. The EU is committed to globalisation and to safeguarding and promoting free trade. The EU should be open to all European countries that are willing and able to meet the requirements of membership. Not least, this perspective is central to the Eastern Partnership countries. For us, the Eastern Partnership is a logical continuation of our historically strong support for EU enlargement and the dissemination of EU values, standards and working methods to the whole of the European continent. We also want clearer demands to be made on EU Member States to comply with EU decisions taken but also to comply with fundamental democratic principles and values. Mr President, I would like to The most important thing right now is that the EU can stay together. That is the key to continued successful cooperation. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to highlight the moderate and alliance reservations and our special opinion on Nord Stream 2. For reasons of time, I am only in favour of reservation 14 but of course I support all the reservations.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-26	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by welcoming Minister Linde to the debate. It is important to have a presence in this House when we discuss these issues. I note that I came to the speaker's chair more quickly than I had estimated, because one of the major deviants in this debate, the Swedish Democrats, withdrew from participating. Mr President, I would like to This is a debate that reviews 2016 but also looks forward. 2016 was another challenging year, we will have to say. Our common values were challenged in several ways. Hungary continued to test, challenge and try and break up and was unfortunately supported by Poland. There are also others who take back these forces. We have been challenged by various terrorist attacks, which of course have affected. But we have also been challenged by the world around us. Migration issues have affected, but also what has happened in Turkey, which is still one of the candidate countries for EU membership. We have also been challenged in terms of our common security. There is still war in Ukraine. Parts of Georgia are still occupied. It is therefore not only Ukraine that is occupied. We have clear and unambiguous Russian involvement in both Georgia and Ukraine, but also in other parts of our Europe. The referendum in the United Kingdom almost a year ago marked, of course, 2016. This is also clear in the letter and the statement. Of course, a Brexit without a clear road map affects the EU, which was prepared to gather up for the 60th anniversary but which met a UK that did not really know where it wanted to go other than that it wanted to leave the EU. We can surely note that the EU has passed the 2016 test, despite the challenges that have existed. A state of emergency country, France, the Brexit referendum, Hungary, Poland – many challenges have been mentioned, but after all, the EU has managed to stick together. One of our bases has also been free trade. We are a vote in favour of global trade. In 2016, the United States received a new president hoping that the British would be followed by others who would knock on the door to leave the EU. But we did not get the development that President Trump apparently dreamed of. The multilateral path that President Trump and some others so clearly and clearly dislike – I am not sure that this applies to the whole administration – has instead proved to be an opportunity for the European Union, because the European Union has become a force that many people seek for multilateral solutions when other doors are closed. It is also an example of the EU passing the test. We have an enlargement process. It is clear from the documents that Turkey, which has been knocking on the door for a long time and on which there can be much discussion of history, is, in principle, on hold. There's no work going on. It is, of course, serious for the Turkish citizens who have dreamed and dreamt of a different development from what we can now see in Turkey. The reality in Turkey is, of course, deeply serious and affects Sweden, Europe and the European Union, although it is the Turkish citizens who are allowed to draw the big load of developments under President Erdo 中an. Enlargement is also about the Western Balkans, an area that needs more attention. It is still an area of open scars and wounds that are not healed. It is important for the EU to keep the prospect of enlargement in order not to release the Western Balkans in free fall. An example of an important process has been to cope with Serbia and Kosovo. Not getting a new great deal of concern in the Western Balkans is central, and the EU needs to pay much more attention to this than has been the case in 2016 and this far this year. However, the enlargement process is not only about Turkey and the Western Balkans, but also about the Eastern Partnership. The Eastern Partnership must retain a membership perspective. If you lose that chance, that opportunity, that image and that dream, people will look for other ways. Above all, those who are trying – and I am thinking of Mr Putin and his friends – are left free to break apart and re-invent the countries that once belonged to the Soviet Union. The Eastern Partnership must therefore have an open perspective of membership. The freedom of visa – yesterday for Ukraine and earlier for Georgia – are, of course, important signals, but they must be followed by more. The differentiated opportunities we are talking about are, of course, important to push for. Here, Sweden has a special role: not to let go of the Eastern Partnership, the power that we have been there and the hope that we have contributed to for people in those countries. Mr President, I would like to ask here for the approval of reservation 14 under paragraph 6, a joint alliance reservation. The EU shall be a foreign policy actor. It is a matter of security policy. We have talked about Russia and about maintaining the policy of sanctions, but also about demonstrating otherwise that we stand up for the values that we have signed up to. The fact that we are fighting terrorism and have managed to reach an agreement is a good thing, but we need to move on. We'll be prepared for military action. We are a strong player in the field of aid. And we are at the heart of the climate. It is not only Paris that has given the name to the Paris Agreement, but it is an obligation for the EU to stand up and push ahead, not least now that President Trump has left the Paris Agreement. In short, Mr President, we should also touch on the tracks of the future. The five tracks in Juncker's White Paper say some, but not all. It is not a map for the future, but the five scenarios are inspiration for discussion. For the Center Party, it is important that we do not build walls against the outside world. It is a matter of security policy to secure NATO as a defence organisation for the EU. We must maintain a link to the United States and a link to the United Kingdom and clear common border guards, but also ensure cross-border solutions to the problems we face jointly. We usually mention a narrower but sharper way of tackling the future in Europe. We hope that together we will be able to develop a value-based Europe that does not undermine what we are united in for freedom, opportunities and prosperity. We hope to be able to work for a Union united in diversity and openness, a voice for global responsibility and cooperation.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-38	Mr President, I would like to I thank you, Minister Ann Linde, for being here. We're glad you're here. There is a need for a minister on the ground in this important debate. Mr President, I would like to The EU is today in the greatest crisis of confidence since its founding. The crisis is massive in many Member States. In Britain, where people have been voted on the future, the people have voted to leave the EU. Many of the citizens of the European Union are opposed to an increase in supranationality and the way in which the Union is dealing with the deep economic crises in several Member States. The EU's focus on allowing citizens to bear the costs of bank speculation and saving themselves from the crisis has fundamentally failed. The EU's crisis policy has not only destroyed welfare and security systems in a number of EU countries. Unemployment persists, economic disparities are increasing and, in the wake of the crisis, xenophobia and racism are increasing. The EU has failed to deal with the refugee crisis in the Mediterranean. The refugee agreement with Turkey shows that the Union's priority is to stop refugees from standing up for fundamental human rights, in particular the right to asylum. The negotiations between the EU and the US on a new free trade agreement, TTIP, have created concerns and protests in large parts of the Union. The negotiations have been characterised by secrecy. The Commission prioritises business interests over the environment, food safety, welfare and citizens' influence. We believe that as long as Sweden is a member of the European Union, Sweden should work towards transferring power back to the Member States and that Sweden should receive a binding derogation from EMU and from the common agricultural policy. Basically, it is a question of reforming the Union, so that decision-making moves closer to the citizens, that decisions are taken in democratically elected assemblies and that citizens are given a real opportunity to influence and be included in the decisions taken. Another important area is foreign and security policy. Mr President, I would like to Since Sweden became a member of the European Union, Swedish military alliance freedom has been increasingly eroded. Today, Sweden is in fact involved and contributes to the militarisation of the EU. Swedish cooperation with NATO is strengthened, and there are increasingly questions about the international efforts that Sweden participates in. The Left Party is strongly opposed to this development. We protect the UN system and international law. In recent years, Sweden has focused increasingly on NATO and EU-led operations and on participation in EU combat groups. Instead, we want Sweden to give a clear priority to participation in UN-led international efforts. We believe that Sweden should suspend all cooperation that contributes to the militarisation of the EU. Mr President, I would like to The EU Member States account for almost 60% of the world's total aid and are the largest trading partners of many developing countries. The EU's development policy is lacking on a number of points, and it faces several challenges. The main problem is that few EU Member States are living up to their commitments in terms of aid. The share of EU aid going to the least developed countries is falling. At the same time, a number of EU countries chose to use their aid budgets to finance activities at home that can hardly be considered as aid, such as interest costs, refugee reception in the EU, foreign students at EU colleges and debt restructuring. Another major challenge in the EU's development policy is that a small number of Member States, with Hungary and Poland at the forefront, have been able to block work on sexual and reproductive health and rights. Issues concerning women's right to decide over their bodies and the situation of LGBT people have received minimal attention, due to the fact that a number of conservative Member States are actively opposed to the EU working on issues related to sexual rights or gender identity in its development cooperation. Now that a number of EU countries and the President of the United States are blocking and stopping work on SRHR issues, Sweden must push for EU development policy to help strengthen women's and LGBTQ people's rights in the EU and worldwide. Another important and talked about issue is the refugee agreement with Turkey. It is not new, but it is important to consider. The Left Party is very critical of the agreement between the EU and Turkey on refugees. Turkey is not the rule of law for its own citizens. Human rights, freedom of expression and democracy are under constant attack. HDP leaders and 5 000 other politicians from this party are in prison today. Over 40 000 citizens, including opponents, Kurds, socialists, journalists and Members of Parliament, are imprisoned. A country like Turkey should not have agreements with the EU and Sweden. It violates the right of asylum and legitimises President Erdo's restriction of freedom of the press and abuse of the Kurdish population. Turkey does not grant refugee status to non-European refugees, and most reports testify to substandard asylum processes and to the return of refugees to the war in Syria and other countries. The reports of gross violations of human rights, restrictions on freedom of expression and the growing repression of the Kurds are averting each other daily in the country of Turkey. We believe that Sweden, as an individual country and as a member of the European Union, should work to ensure that Turkey meets its international commitments to protect freedom of the press and to accelerate the transformation of the Turkish legal system into a system based on the rule of law and human rights. The government and Sweden should work towards terminating the agreement between the EU and Turkey. Mr President, I would like to There are many important issues that cannot be ignored just because the time has passed, so to speak. An important issue is working life and health. In many countries, companies and governments violate ILO core conventions, including those they have chosen to ratify. With a globally recognised right to international sympathy, workers all over the world could put pressure on employers to meet the human rights requirement at work. This would, for example, allow trade unions in Sweden to take sympathy measures to support workers who are victims of violations of their human rights in the workplace wherever this happens in the world. The Left Party believes that Sweden within the EU should push for the right to cross-border sympathies in the EU. Like the Swedish LO, we believe that the four freedoms within the EU's internal market – the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital – are not enough to achieve a level playing field for workers in Europe. Sweden should push within the EU for the right of trade unions to operate across borders to be introduced as a fifth freedom. Finally, I would like to emphasise that I support all our reservations. However, for time to come, I only support reservation 7 in the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report 10 under paragraph 3.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-64	Mr President, I would like to When I listened to Amineh Kakabaveh, I perceived that it was a rather negative note when it came to Europe in general. My picture is that it was a vote to leave the European Union that we heard from the speaker's seat. Is it the case that the Left Party is once again pushing the demand to leave the EU? I heard: as long as Sweden is still a member. It would be helpful to clarify how you stand on this issue and whether you are going to lift the requirement to leave the European Union again. I have one more question. You could take a lot of pieces. I could discuss how we secure our security when actors threaten. It is about Russia and Russia's risk behaviour in our immediate environment. The Left Party obviously does not see any concerns about this, but only hopes that everything will work out differently. But I was actually going to raise the issue of your criticism regarding the financing of refugee costs. I heard a strong criticism from the Left Party representative in the debate. But, Mr President, is it not the case that the Left Party supports the budget that exists in Sweden and is behind the calculations that Sweden has made for refugee costs? Is it not the policy of the Left Party that the representative of the Left Party has just criticised in the pulpit, Mr President?
i-2642284f8e5ba394-67	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren, for your questions! The Left Party maintains the same criticism and the same position on the EU. We think it is the Swedish people who should choose whether or not to stay in the EU. It is not an individual party that should do so. However, the Left Party has thought and said all along and all the way that we know that the Union is in crisis. It has not created more democracy and human rights, but rather the opposite. One looks at the UK, which has voted. Concerns are awakened throughout Europe. It is about xenophobia and everything else that is growing because of anxiety, unemployment and exclusion. It is about the non-democratic tools that exist and that save the banks and the finances. This takes precedence over human rights and the citizens of the Member States. Of course, we stand by our views. As far as funding is concerned, and if we support this, we will of course do so to the extent that we have agreements with the government. However, on refugee issues and aid, we in the Left Party have always held our own positions. We simply did not agree that it is okay to use the money at home. We have always thought so, and it is also stated in our reservations about motives and so on, in addition to the agreements we have with the government. Although one has a budget with the government, one should be able to highlight specific areas, and the development area is one of these areas. This applies in particular to the SRHR issues.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-71	Mr President, I would like to When I listen to Amineh Kakabaveh, I hear someone who generally wants to paint with a black brush throughout the EU. It has not contributed to democracy," says Amineh Kakabaveh. But, Mr President, is that not exactly what we have seen? We have seen how we have been able to unite. Where the battlefields previously ruled, we have joined forces and found solutions to be able to agree politically. We have also been able to agree on the rule of law because we have a court case. Instead of going out fighting on the battlefields, which have been the curse of history for Europe, we have found a way forward. It is a path that people have dreamed of and that people still dream of. You yourself write in your reservation that those who wish to join the European Union should be allowed to join. And wish do many – in the Western Balkans and in the Eastern Partnership area. That has been the case, and that is why we in the European Union have become 28 Member States. Now one's on his way out. Why is Britain on its way out? Well, Mr President, because they also think they should be allowed to decide more for themselves. I heard Theresa May say that if there is legislation that prevents people being sent away – human rights legislation – you should change that. That is what Britain wants, just like Putin and just like some others – we are talking about Hungary and Poland – want. They go the way that Amineh Kakabaveh points out to fight again, but not on the basis of the principles of the rule of law. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party is behind the budget. That's it. And the budget contains settlements for refugees – settlements from aid. That's it. Amineh Kakabaveh clearly criticises himself here.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-76	Mr President, I would like to Here's the thing, Kerstin Lundgren: Of course there are both advantages and disadvantages, but the disadvantages have become much bigger. Do not the bourgeois, Kerstin Lundgren, see what crisis has been created in many countries? People are still on their knees in Greece, for example. Still, money is being borrowed to simply save the banks. This does not apply to ordinary citizens. Do you really not see that Europe has also created the salvation, militarisation and supranationality of big banks? For the Left Party, the aspects of democracy are important. We must simply be able to criticise, and as long as Sweden is in the European Union, we must, of course, influence. We need to have a voice. This does not mean that we think that we should exclude other countries just because you have Russian phobia or think it is about Muslim countries. The countries that meet the criteria for human rights must, of course, be allowed to participate. Unfortunately, however, there are a handful of countries, as I have pointed out – Hungary, Poland and many other countries – which do not respect their citizens when it comes to LGBT people, abortion rights and Roma rights, for example. It is also about the rights of other minorities. It is obviously important to point this out, and we cannot be blind to the militarisation of the European Union. Just because the Russians are there, we are going to join the European Union and undermine our freedom of alliance, you seem to think. As far as budgetary issues are concerned, the Left Party has always had its reservations on all issues relating to refugees, asylum and aid. And we will continue to pursue our questions.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-80	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by calling for the approval of Amendments Nos 13 and 14. We are, of course, in favour of the other liberal and alliance reservations. Today we are debating the activities of the EU in 2016, but also the White Paper. As we all know, the White Paper is the more forward-looking perspective. That is also where I will take my stand in today's speech. As we heard from the previous speaker, it is easy to yell at Europe. It is easy to promote something else. But what is the EU? The EU is a body of laws and regulations. It's agreements and rules. It is a complex device that is often slow and time-consuming and costs money. And certainly we have problems to deal with within the European Union. But ultimately, Europe is a dream. It is a dream of peace and freedom that is born of two world wars that devastated a continent and separated families and nations from one another. Europe is the dream of doing something better. It is the dream of bringing about a more peaceful and richer life together. Who, then, is the European Union, as some people constantly say? Europe is us – 27 or 28 nations, depending on whether we still include Britain. We form the European Union together, and the European Union can never be better than its members. Therefore, Sweden, especially in these times, has a huge responsibility to be the better member of this Union. We have a responsibility to be the Member State that does not forget to convey why the EU was formed and to be the one standing up for borderless free trade, for free movement, for democracy and for human rights. There are those who call me dreamers or European huggers. I'd love to, and I wish there were a lot more of us. Only when we have this dream together can we become a strong Union and create a better life for all our citizens. What do we have if we do not have this Union? It's easy to yell at, but what if we hadn't had it? We'd have boundaries. We had walls. We would still have dictatorships. We would also have had a regulatory problem. If today you think it is difficult with the European Union, you could have tried to commute between Malmö and Copenhagen until a few weeks ago. You could have tried to do business when Sweden was not in the EU. You could try to travel through Europe. Then you can remember what it was like when we did not have Europe. The rule issue today is a vest fan against what it was before. I understand that nationalists, communists and right-wing extremists are against Europe, because it is contrary to everything they believe in. The EU is freedom, liberalism and democracy. The EU is the equal rights of all people. Mr President, I would like to I've been studying and working in London for years. It is clear to me that Britain will always be part of the European continent, despite the small channel that separates us. We share culture, values and history. It is nothing more than a tragedy for the British to leave EU cooperation. We optimists hope that this will not last forever. This means that we need to think seriously about how to make it clear that Europe is an added value and how that added value will benefit everyone. Work will soon begin on the EU's long-term budget. Brexit, of course, means that the EU budget is significantly reduced in the long term. The negotiations are a perfect opportunity to make strong re-priorities and to make a clear impact assessment. I don't mind paying as long as the money goes to the right things and as long as they grow old. To say, as other parties, that the EU budget should be reduced is not constructive all the time. If the money is better spent through joint investments, it is better for everyone. The budget should therefore, in the next period, focus on areas with clear European added value. We have research, infrastructure, law enforcement, foreign policy, migration and aid on the agenda. We must work to prevent adverse climate effects, to strengthen the Union's competitiveness, to cope jointly with humane and humane reception of refugees and to make it more difficult for crime and terror to grow. For cross-border crime to be stopped, judicial cooperation within the EU needs to be strengthened. A strong Europe that fights terrorism creates security for us, whether we walk on Drottninggatan, Champs-Élysées or Unter Linden Linden. Smuggled weapons end up in the hands of criminals all over Europe. Drug sales that fatten the criminals take the road through Europe and also up to Sweden. In the area by area, the EU is the answer to our security questions. Terrorists, traffickers and drug dealers know no bounds. That's why the Liberals have been pushing for a long time to set up a European FBI. We also say that Europol needs to be expanded and given operational powers. In addition, the Liberals have repeatedly pointed to the need for an EU prosecutor to investigate and combat cross-border crime. A majority of EU countries are now moving forward on the issue of creating a joint prosecutor's office. In this House, however, only the Liberals raise this issue. Whatever the motives, Mr President, the line of the other parties is as unsolidable as it is unacceptable. It is not only in the area of justice that other parties are slowing down. A few weeks ago, the Liberals went out and supported the social pillar in Europe. As you know, the European Commission has proposed cooperation – not legislation – on a minimum standard of social rights in EU countries. These are fair working conditions, safe workplaces, health care and the inclusion of people with disabilities. We are not talking about transferring more power to Europe, if that is what you are afraid of. We are not talking about more resources for Europe, if that is what you are afraid of. We are talking about minimum social standards for European citizens. That's taking moral responsibility. We who identify ourselves as liberals know that globalisation creates prosperity, but we do not close our eyes to the fact that some also lose out on that development. This could be a case of whole industries moving. The economic crisis in Europe led to widespread unemployment and to Euroscepticism. Mr President, I would like to When we see people begging on the street, as happens on a daily basis, it is largely the absence of social safety nets in parts of Europe that we see. It also leads to Euroscepticism. The betrayal of Romania and Bulgaria by its citizens creates human suffering. It is untenable for European cooperation in the long run. Free movement and free trade must be safeguarded, but this also applies to social security. That is how we liberals believe that we are dealing with Euroscepticism. As a liberal, I am clear that competitiveness and growth will increase. It is clear that contributions are not the solution. The labour force must be changed when industries disappear and jobs replaced by new ones. But we cannot turn a blind eye to the responsibility of society. For Sweden, social reforms were required in the early 20th century, and the same applies now to a number of EU countries. We have a major task ahead of us. Perhaps, above all, we must, together with like-minded countries, counter the populist forces that are working for greater protectionism and for closed borders. Although my speaking time is running out, I would like to highlight the Eastern Partnership as an example of the EU's great benefit. By doing so, the European Union and our closest neighbours can draw closer together. We can create a counterweight to Russia. We can make an offer for a better world. It is therefore extremely important that this government, like the previous one, continues to fight for more countries to join this Union, which we as Liberals wholeheartedly support. Mr President, I would like to I have already called for reservations. However, I would like to conclude by saying, as we usually say from the Liberal side: together in Europe, we are becoming safer, richer and freer. And freedom, Mr President, is always worth defending.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-110	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are debating the activities of the European Union in 2016 – a year in which European cooperation was undeniably faced with great trials. It was a question of increasing instability and concern in the world around us, of new terrorist attacks and of unresolved migration challenges. It can also be added that the UK voted to leave the Union. Today's debate is about this, but it is also about the direction we want to see European cooperation take. President Juncker has described the current situation as an existential crisis for the EU. We Christian Democrats want this crisis to result in a European Union that is prepared to change to better cope with major cross-border challenges, but which is also prepared to let go of policies that are better suited to decision-making at political levels closer to the citizens. We believe that it is only in this way that the European Union can regain legitimacy. Mr President, I would like to During its first 60 years, the EU has developed into the world's largest single market, the world's largest trading partner and the world's largest donor of development aid. As a result, the EU also has the opportunity to influence developments in the world through a variety of channels. The Christian Democrats want to see a more active, coherent and effective European foreign policy, with the promotion of democracy and greater respect for human rights and freedoms as an absolute priority. This is perhaps more important today than ever. Unfortunately, however, the signals from some of the EU Member States indicate something else. The voice standing up for human rights has weakened. We have seen clear signs of this when it comes to EU policy towards countries such as Cuba, Belarus and Eritrea, where issues and demands of democracy and human rights have clearly been put back. Furthermore, Mr President, Russia is once again a player with great ambitions on the international stage. At the same time, unfortunately, we have to say that Russian interest has rarely been ours. The annexation of Crimea and the involvement in Syria, with the bombing of Aleppo, can never be accepted. However, Mr Putin's firm action shows that we cannot ignore Russia. A coherent and wise policy from EU countries is required here, and it is not good for an individual Swedish municipality to make decisions in violation of national security. Nord Stream 2 will increase Europe's dependence on Russian gas and reduce the number of suppliers able to supply European countries with energy. This is unfortunate on the basis of the security policy situation in Europe and with a Russia which, through the aggression against Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea, clearly shows that it does not respect the borders of other countries. With this as a background, we believe that it is the responsibility of Sweden and ultimately the Swedish Government to act in the ways that are available to stop the construction of Nord Stream 2. Mr President, I would like to The issue of defence has been raised in the EU context. The fact that the UK, which has traditionally opposed deepening European defence cooperation, is leaving the EU is one reason for the debate, clear signals from the new US administration that a de-escalation of its security commitments in Europe is another. With a troubled world, it is reasonable and also positive that the EU should strengthen its commitment in the field of defence policy. However, it is not reasonable for federalist forces to use the ongoing debate to advance their positions. Proposals for joint combat forces and a pure EU army have been launched by both the majority of the European Parliament and Commission President Juncker. So far, however, the governments of the Member States have been repulsive, many with the real objection that there has already been an effective and well-functioning military structure for Western democracies, namely NATO, for a long time. However, enhanced cooperation between the EU and NATO is of great importance. We in the Christian Democrats are also in favour of a common European defence fund and the development of a permanent command capacity for military operations abroad. There is no doubt that the EU without its own army has an important role to play in the field of defence and security policy. In addition to joint efforts and sharing of research and material development costs, the EU can contribute to political stability and reduced vulnerability through cooperation within the Energy Union. The Christian Democrats also want a review of the EU's fighting forces, known as battle groups, who are in constant readiness to take part in a rapid and limited effort. However, the battle groups as such have never been deployed, and as a result the uncertainty surrounding the concept has increased. At the same time, considerable resources have been used to equip, train and maintain forces in the various Member States. Here the Christian Democrats believe that a decision must be made on the future of these battle groups. Mr President, I would like to Enlargement remains one of the Union's key tools for security and stability. In line with the ‘more-for-more' principle, there should be a clear perspective of membership for the partner countries geographically located in Europe, implementing political and economic reforms. Such an approach presupposes that the EU's commitment to reform is long-term and that the EU offers comprehensive support to partner countries wishing to move closer to the Union. All countries wishing to join the EU must, of course, respect the so-called Copenhagen criteria. In fact, no accession negotiations are in progress with Turkey. Developments in Turkey are moving in a worrying direction, to say the least, with regard to human rights and respect for the principles of the rule of law. However, it is important for the EU to find ways of supporting the democratic forces that operate in the country under great pressure. As far as the southern neighbourhood is concerned, the hope that was sparked in North Africa and the Middle East in the Arab Spring, as we all know, has turned into uncertainty and concern. Tunisia is the best country to emerge from the turmoil, which has made democratic changes and now has a democratic constitution. But terrorism threatens the security and development of the country, and Tunisia is in great need of support. A key element of the Southern Neighbourhood Policy is that the EU continues to play an active role as a political and economic partner of Tunisia, but also that Tunisia is strongly supported by the Union in strengthening its anti-terrorism strategy with a focus on anti-radicalisation. It must also be noted, unfortunately, that the Islamic State has built its new base in Europe's absolute neighbourhood. Europe showed decisiveness when Gaddafi was to be overthrown, but then the power seemed to run out and we left the Libyans to their fate. The fall in Libya shows what happens when there is no long-term roadmap. There was no interest in remaining and supporting a construction process, and today, unfortunately, we are seeing the consequences of that. It is important that the EU has now resumed its involvement in the country. Support for the fight against terrorism and democratic development is crucial. Sweden must be a clear voice here. Mr President, I would like to With a new President of the White House, Europe needs to pull itself together and become a force to be reckoned with. The Christian Democrats do not think it is the right priority to focus on creating a more social Europe. The planned Gothenburg Summit should be about how the EU should take responsibility and behave globally, rather than having a dialogue between the social partners. On 1 April, the Commission proposed a social programme statement for the EU, which will initially not be binding. However, it seems to be the Commission's intention to follow up with legislation. The Work-life-balance Directive, which was presented at the same time and which is strong legislation, includes, for example, mandatory rules on parental leave. The Christian Democrats believe that decisions on who should be on parental leave should not be made in Brussels. We do not believe that Europe is built strongly through detailed regulation of people's lives. On the contrary, excessive regulations from Brussels could risk weakening the legitimacy of the EU. This is particularly true at a time when the EU has problems with its core tasks. It is clear that the EU countries must return to the drawing board. The five future scenarios can provide a good basis for different actors to be able to position themselves in the debate on the future development of the EU. The EU will continue to be tested. But a strong and cohesive Europe remains in Sweden's interest. For the EU to be strong and cohesive, however, it needs the EU to focus and find solutions to what is needed and leave other things to the other political levels to deal with. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to endorse reservation 8 of the UU10 report. We are, of course, behind our other reservations and alliance reservations, but we are content with this motion.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-143	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal on both the European letter and the European White Paper and call for all reservations to be rejected. Mr President, I would like to The EU was founded 60 years ago. Over the 60 years, European cooperation has contributed to security, growth and peace in Europe. In 60 years, the EU has become the largest trading power and the world's leading donor, and a unique single market exists between Member States. There are many good examples of the EU acting for peace and conflict prevention. One example is the peace negotiations in the Western Balkans, Colombia and Mali. In this respect, there is increasing support for Macedonia, which has a new government after years of political struggle against the corruption, nepotism and lack of human rights follow-up. Here, both the EU and the US have contributed to better democratic transparency and a step closer to the EU community. Of course, support for Ukraine's struggle for freedom should also be mentioned in Russia, as well as its efforts to achieve transparent and fair legislation in accordance with the Copenhagen criteria. There are, of course, significant challenges to be addressed in the neighbourhood policy both in the Western Balkans and in the Southern Caucasus. Many often forget that the EU is basically a peace project, and with a little perspective back in time there has been no war between EU countries since the EU was formed. When the war in Yugoslavia ended, it was also obvious that the EU would do much to bring the former enemies together in peace and also to move closer to the EU. Croatia and Slovenia are members. Serbia and Montenegro are candidate countries. Nevertheless, there is a truth behind accession and also association with the European Union. Countries wishing to start membership and association processes must meet important democratic criteria, carry out economic reforms, uphold and comply with the rule of law. Of course, it is not entirely straightforward. Many of the countries really lack long-standing democratic traditions and cultures. When recession occurs, it is easy to resort to corrupt shortcuts instead of keeping a focus on long-term economic reforms. Governments are being replaced, and new ones are taking office. Therefore, it is crucial for many of the countries that are striving for EU proximity that the EU really does what is regulated in agreements and agreements– follow-up and carry out clear audits of success as well as declines. There must be no mistakes. Countries wishing to join the EU family should also do their own thing in accordance with all the criteria to be met for membership and association. It is an obligation – and also a right – for the EU to be clear and firm about this. Mr President, I would like to The common foreign and security policy must, in the future, be a cornerstone of the European Union. I can partly agree with Mr Jean-Claude that the EU must also work more together on defence issues, but not by creating a common EU army or, for that matter, a common defence headquarters. Given the current world situation and Trump as President of the United States, it is not certain that the EU can count on the support of the United States in a situation where there is a risk of warlike conflict with foreign powers outside the EU. Of course, we shall fulfil our commitments in accordance with the solidarity clause in Article 51. Mr President, I would like to Development cooperation within the EU will aim to achieve and implement the 2030 Agenda. Sweden will act ambitiously, both bilaterally and multilaterally. Sweden has actively pushed for democracy to be a key concept when introducing country strategies with a focus on human rights at local level. Sweden has also successfully pushed for the abolition of export subsidies to agricultural products. The previous government did, and so does the present government. This makes it easier for developing countries. At the same time, the EU has agreed on facilitations to be introduced for the least developed countries so that they too can get their agricultural production going. Mr President, I would like to It is urgent for the EU to maintain sanctions against Russia as long as it does not honour its commitments in the Minsk Agreement and closes the war activities in Ukraine. The peace process in the Middle East must also get started seriously; it is untenable that the positions are so locked. France, with the support of Sweden among others, has tried to revive the dialogue in order to create a two-state solution between Israel and Palestine. Here it is particularly important that the EU continues to work methodically to get the parties to the negotiating table. I have little hope that the Trump administration will make more than symbolic marks over the next few years. It is good that the EU stands by the principle of Syria. There is no other solution to the war than a political one. This political solution must be based on respect for the territorial integrity of Syria and the cohesion and independence of Syria. There will be no war to such strong positions that either of the warring parties can make the influence call itself victory power, as in World War II, for example. Syria is a complete humanitarian disaster, and all forces must be deployed to put a final stop to this hell on earth. It is also good that the EU adopted a Syria strategy on 4 April this year. It shall, inter alia, address humanitarian needs, strengthen civil society, demand responsibility for war crimes and provide support to the Syrian population. Mr President, I would like to In view of Brexit, it is now time for the EU to take a new, modern step in the decision on and introduction of the next long-term budget. The focus shall be on promoting European added value and economic renewal. There will, of course, be changes when the UK leaves, including within the budgetary framework. It is important that Sweden has a clear position and that we do not end up in a worse position than the other Member States. The EU's migration policy is constantly in focus. People who are in danger of life on the Mediterranean or end up in transit camps at the EU's external borders touch and remind us that all EU countries must take joint and several responsibility for the reception of asylum seekers to the EU. It is important that, as soon as possible, a well-functioning redistributive mechanism among EU countries meets high standards of legal certainty and safeguards the right to asylum. Mr President, I would like to It is also good that the Commission has highlighted the issue of the introduction of a pillar of social rights. The aim is to achieve a better balance between economic and social Europe. It is therefore important that the distribution of competences between Member States, national systems and the EU be respected. The EU, and Sweden as a Member State, have played a very active role in the negotiations in order to finally bring forward the signed Paris Agreement. It is crucial for global climate challenges. The role of the EU will now become even more important in view of Trumps's faltering and now clearly communicated attitude that the US wants to leave the agreement. Here we know that, among other things, the Swedish government has made contact with the progressive forces and companies in the United States that want to continue the positive climate work that is going on in many states. I think possibly that Trumps's outmoded play will awaken some of his core voters, but developments in the United States cannot be stopped. California, for example, has the world's toughest environmental requirements for the automotive industry. Mr President, I would like to In 1994, the Swedish people voted to join the EU. The Swedish Parliament took the formal decision to join the EU on 15 December 1994. Sweden has been a progressive, proactive and reliable Member State during these more than two decades of membership. EU membership has served us well. We have our main exports to the EU Member States, and freedom of movement has given us completely new perspectives and opportunities in terms of travel, experience and work. We have helped new Member States in the Community to achieve better welfare and economic conditions. We have also contributed to the fact that Europe is the world's largest economy. The EU as a peace project has put an end to all these centuries of war on the European continent. I very much believe in the European Union. Although there are many challenges, I am sure that the EU will go stronger into the future. There, Sweden will continue to be a Member State that is progressive, proactive and reliable. Finally, Mr President, I will say something about the White Paper. It contains five scenarios: The EU is continuing with the current approach, as it stands today. The EU is limited to the single market. There will be deeper integration on a voluntary basis. There will be fewer areas of cooperation and increased focus on efficiency. There will be an in-depth integration in all areas. The Commission will drive forward a proposal for conclusions at the European Council in December 2017. We have also had a hearing in Parliament on this. It will thus be a new round for Parliament to take a position on this autumn. With this, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal on both the European letter and the White Paper. I call for all reservations to be rejected.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-170	Mr President, I would like to I visited Albania a few weeks ago. It is a country in southern Europe where there are many challenges and where the people see membership of the European Union as helping to modernise and democratise society. One sees it as helping away from the paralysing corruption that has taken over after the harsh dictatorship that existed in the country until the 90s. It is seen as an aid to the exchange of ideas and goods, but also to overcome environmental pollution from industrial spills, dubious conditions and primitive management of garbage and sewage. During my trip, I was given lectures at a university of science and medicine in Elbasan, a city in the middle of the country where the population is really strongly affected by the large emissions into air and water. Diseases, not least in children, clearly show that the problems are serious, and the city is addressed as a particular focus in the EU expert groups that have now facilitated the preparatory discussions. Albania itself, in particular, has wanted talks on membership negotiations to start in the next few years. I believe that the dormant judicial reform, with the purges of corrupt officials in the judiciary, is an important piece of the puzzle along the way. In fact, it is also the most important piece of the puzzle to deal with pollution. Mr President, I would like to Today, the European Union plays many roles in world politics and as a pooling force in Europe. Since Sweden became a member over 20 years ago, not least the enlargement to a more or less pan-European Union has both changed the political dynamics and greatly increased the opportunities for more people in Europe to exchange knowledge and ideas and to study, travel, work or fall in love beyond the country where they were born and started their lives. However, membership of the EU is of course voluntary, and while several countries – including the Western Balkans, such as Albania – want to join, the UK has decided to leave. This will lead to a partly new political dynamic in Europe. The fact that the UK is leaving also makes it more difficult for Sweden to gain access in several policy areas, as the UK has been an important partner in several areas. That is why it is important, and during the year when we discussed how the EU's activities have looked like from the Swedish side, it has been a key component for Sweden and the government to find and broaden cooperation with several other important countries. This applies not least to the Nordic EU countries and also to Germany, and it is about strategically ensuring that Swedish EU work can become even more effective and stronger in the future – even though the UK leaves. In the aftermath of Brexit, it is easy for the debate on the EU to slip away to the fact that there is a choice between more being run by the EU or nothing at all being run by the EU. It is a debate between those who love the Union and those who hate it. I believe that this gives an incorrect picture and an impossible situation for us politicians to deal with. I think it is more credible to focus on what has actually happened in recent decades and see that it is much less dramatic. More countries have chosen to work together to meet today's challenges while neither nation states nor local communities have given up their primary role for citizens. The debate should therefore move towards building an EU that effectively cooperates on issues that individual countries cannot manage on their own. With this, the EU will neither be hated nor loved, but may risk being seen as an uncontroversial political organisation but important as a complement to and support for good development in countries and local communities. On the part of the Green Party, we are clear that we do not want European cooperation in which you get an EU army, common taxes or a Union formation that leads to supranationality in a number of areas. But we see that there are many challenges where Sweden and other EU countries – Albania is such an example – and also the local community needs help and support and needs to cooperate better in the world we live in and with the challenges we face. Not least at European level, we are seeing migration challenges where we need to operate in our world with open eyes on the brutal abuse that is taking place and which leads to many people fleeing. We need to work to ensure that there is humanism in the reception of asylum, not only towards those who have managed to get far up in northern Europe, but that Europe as a whole takes responsibility. Here it is important to see that legal approaches to asylum allow the number of decent journeys, not least for women and children across the Mediterranean, to be reduced. We also see that it is extremely important that in the new areas that are directly cross-border, steps can also be taken towards joint and powerful work. I would also like to remind you that in this Parliament it is clear in the everyday work of the European Union that there are a number of and quite a number of issues where we do not want to see an increase in the number of weaknesses, as we are happy to say in the Swedish debate on European policy. Here I think it is important to be clear on which issues we can see potential cooperation in the European Union. Environmental issues are, in my view, one of the most obvious examples of why Europe is needed both in its own neighbourhood and internationally and globally. The benefits are obvious, because when cross-border air pollution or soil pollution but also, of course, the threatening climate change appears to be global threats, more countries need to get on the train in the global debate. Europe can stand up for an economic model and a future-oriented model of society based on how we solve one of the core problems, that is, we are still dependent on fossil energy. We pump carbon dioxide out after the combustion of fossil energy, and we need to come around and come up with another solution for that. The solutions are now technically available, but they need to be scaled up and done quickly. There are parts of the EU where this can be demonstrated. We see that there are other countries – including the United States, which have been mentioned here in the debate – which have a more polarised debate on this. The important thing in this work is, of course, that it is possible to scale up, and that is where the strength and volume of EU cooperation are needed. The EU ETS has been important not least in 2016 and remains important as the issue for the future emissions period from 2021 onwards has not been resolved. In this respect, countries need to be prepared to tighten up the rules and to reduce fairly the free allocation of allowances. In this work, Sweden needs to be there. Without developed environmental cooperation in the EU, many of the greatest environmental problems of our time would be considerably more difficult to solve. EU environmental cooperation has been built up for many years, spanning biodiversity and industrial emissions as well as chemicals in goods. Many rules could, of course, be even more far-reaching and better at achieving environmental objectives from my perspective and from the perspective of the Green Party, as well as giving countries and local communities the opportunity to design their specific solutions. However, I believe that the parties that today want Sweden to renegotiate its relations with the EU find it very difficult to see how this would affect the environment. At the very least, the situation of children in Albania will benefit. Mr President, I would like to Before I finish here, I would like to allow myself to reflect on the debate on the future. The White Paper, which is being dealt with in this debate, is not really just any white paper, although I understand that the Committee on Foreign Affairs in Parliament would have liked to have treated it as a regular white paper, that is, with a regular report and a regular debate. Now we have the Minister for the European Union on the ground, and that is very good, and the Commissioner has made a speech and received questions in the Chamber of the Second Chamber, but any real debate on the future is not created by the fact that we are putting another report on the table, Mr President. Looking squarely at the forms that have been done by, for example, wanting to point out that the EU Board does not have the right to add an opinion to this White Paper does not give it weight in the European debate that we would need. If EU policies are to be understood and accepted by the Member States, the Parliamentary Assembly and the parties must also contribute to their debate. Peoples' education in all honour, but when the parties do not do the job and develop new EU policies, it does not get stuck in the debate either. Mr President, we should take responsibility for this in Parliament as well, and I hope that the parliamentary inquiry that is set up will dare to raise its eyes and see that in the new Europe, the Europe that has emerged and formed, the parties and national parliaments also have an important role to play in strengthening dialogue with other parliaments and dialogue on European policy and not looking as bureaucraticly and squarely at the rules that have always applied in this House. With this, Mr President, the Green Party calls for approval of the reports of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Yearbook and on the White Paper and rejection of all reservations.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-189	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that it feels good to be back here and have the opportunity to discuss Europe. When I was a new minister a year ago, I came to the debate and had lost my voice. I could then just sit and listen to all the wisdom but could not speak myself, and it was probably as good as that. Today, we will deal with the government's letter on EU activities in 2016 and the European Commission's White Paper on the future of Europe. 2016 was in many ways a turbulent political year. We have a completely different political landscape today than when I took office a year ago. That is why I will focus on the challenges and opportunities of the future rather than what has happened. There is no doubt that Europe is facing major challenges. Of course, the most obvious is Brexit. Almost exactly a year ago we woke up to the news that Britain had chosen to leave the EU. We in the remaining Member States are ready to start the Brexit negotiations. The government is well prepared and will stand up for all the Swedes who live in the UK, fight for our trade interests and protect the Swedish EU fee. There is another challenge that is particularly engaging me. At a time of insecurity and increasing authoritarian forces, the EU is playing an increasingly important role. One of the EU's main strengths is the common values on which cooperation is based: democracy, the principles of the rule of law and the fundamental rights that we have agreed. This is the real core of European cooperation. It needs constant protection, protection and promotion by all Member States. It may sound obvious, but it is not always, and then we must act. Failure to respect the fundamental values of the European Union must have consequences. Despite the major challenges, the recent elections in Europe have shown stronger support for the EU rather than the other way round. More and more people are recognising the need for cooperation. Here in Sweden the tone is increasingly positive. According to new figures from SCB, support for Sweden's EU membership increases and resistance decreases. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is doing well. The Swedish model delivers. And Europe is a major contributor to our success. We are a small, export-dependent country. Seven out of ten goods exported go to the EU internal market. The fact is that our dependence on the outside world is increasing, and it is becoming increasingly important for companies to act with the whole world as a market. The results are clear. Since we became part of the EU's internal market in 1995, Sweden's trade in goods with the EU has doubled. And the trade in services has even tripled. During the same period of time, the number of jobs generated by our foreign trade has increased by just over 400 000. Direct investment from the EU to Sweden has increased nine times since 1997. So there is no doubt that Europe is important to us. That is why we must take the major challenges seriously. The most important thing is that the EU can deliver results, both in the big and in the small. It must be demonstrated that Europe creates value for all citizens. Then change is required. The most important EU debate is on the content of the policy. Many of today's opportunities and challenges go beyond national boundaries and can only be addressed through joint efforts. Above all, the EU should focus on the issues that need common solutions and create value for citizens. The Government has three main priorities in the EU's work during 2017. Firstly, we must have a Europe of jobs and inclusive growth. Secondly, we must have an ambitious climate, energy and environmental policy. Thirdly, we must have a solidarity-based refugee and migration policy and a secure environment. Today, I'm going to focus on the jobs. But first let me say something quickly about the need for an offensive climate policy. Donald Trump has announced that the United States will withdraw from the Paris Agreement. Climate and migration challenges are examples where EU cooperation is needed, especially now. When others get off, we'll have to step forward. It is basically about the future of our entire planet. So to the jobs. I want a Europe where growth and social progress are mutually reinforcing. Thanks to the EU, the Swedish economy is linked not only to other EU countries but to the whole world economy. Trade within the internal market is crucial for Sweden. And we are fighting to simplify trade even more. More Swedish companies can grow if it becomes easier to sell and buy services across borders. And we can get more Swedish companies like Skype, Klarna and Spotify if the EU simplifies digitalisation. I also know that there is a need for fair conditions in the internal market. EU citizens should be able to trust that their social rights are protected and not have to worry about wage dumping. Social protection systems, labour market policies and education policies are essentially national concerns and will continue to be so in the future. At the same time, we have much to gain from comparing and learning from each other and coordinating our national systems in a way that promotes the mobility of European citizens, workers and self-employed people. In the spring, the Commission has presented a package for what is called the social area in the EU. It contains, among other things, a pillar of social rights. The government sees the pillar as an opportunity for a common political commitment that can contribute to positive developments across the EU, not least in Member States with weak social safety nets. It is therefore gratifying that the Liberals have also taken a stand in favour of this pillar. As part of the work to raise the importance of the social dimension at all levels, Prime Minister Löfven and Commission President Juncker are hosting a summit on fair jobs and growth in Gothenburg on 17 November. The summit will be an opportunity to discuss at the highest level how we can have a Europe in which a well-functioning internal market, free movement and fair jobs contribute to high levels of employment and growth, and where, by learning from each other, we are equipping ourselves for the challenges of the future. That is how we meet our citizens' expectations and deliver in their daily lives. Through discussion and dialogue, the meeting will contribute to promoting the discussion on the future development of the EU. Mr President, I would like to Europe must have a policy that helps to change people's everyday lives for the better. And Europe must get closer to the citizens so that they can influence politics. The issue of increased participation in EU work is close to my heart. The government has a great responsibility. However, in order to improve participation for real, it is also necessary for other actors to contribute. That is why I have started work on so-called EU handshake. In the EU Hand Act, the Government, together with key stakeholders, has committed itself to taking measures to strengthen participation, knowledge and engagement in EU-related issues. At the end of last year, I signed the first two EU hand teams with the social partners, including SKL, and with the offices of the European Commission and the European Parliament in Sweden. Afterwards, I have entered into handshake with Europaforum Norra Sverige, with LSU – Sweden's youth organisations, with Sweden's Students' Unions, with Region Östergötland and the municipalities in Norrköping, Motala and Linköping. It is truly gratifying that there is such a great interest in contributing to the work. LSU presented three pages full of commitments in the hands. Even when I was in Norrköping on 23 May, I was impressed by the commitment I met. Prior to the hand battle, the region and municipalities had discussed what they could do, based on their respective roles, to strengthen participation in EU-related issues and then take decisions on measures in the municipal and regional boards. Already the day after the handshake, they were seen at a meeting to discuss how they can now take the work further. I have many handshake planned for autumn around Sweden. An important commitment of the government in the EU handshake has been to establish an approach with EU Councils, which I have just mentioned. The social partners, civil society and business have long asked for better and more structured dialogues on EU issues. By inviting relevant stakeholders to EU Councils at an early stage of the legislative process, the Government can gain a deeper basis for decision-making on substantive issues and better understanding of the societal debate on these issues. On the basis of the need for a discussion on how to develop the EU and the government's efforts to increase participation, the European Commission's White Paper on the future of the EU is welcome. As you know, the White Paper presents five different scenarios to stimulate discussion across the Member States. Of course, it should not be interpreted as if there are only five predetermined alternatives, but are precisely scenarios. We need to work together on how we want Europe to develop in order to meet the most important political issues. As part of the debate on the future, the European Commission also presents five thematic papers: the social dimension, globalisation, EMU, defence and the EU's future finances. I am pleased that the Commission wants to strengthen its involvement in the discussion on the design of the future of Europe. There is indeed much to discuss. In order to ensure that the White Paper is managed in a way that promotes participation, the Government will invite relevant EU Councils on the respective discussion papers. We then plan to organise a comprehensive EU Council on the future of the EU. Mr President, I would like to There are many challenges, but there are also great opportunities for the future. With improved dialogue and participation, we shall and can develop the European Union in order to achieve concrete results.
i-UKNxpx9jrH8DPSiAstgFNx	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for participating in the debate. I agree with many of the points raised by Ann Linde in her speech. Our view of the European Union is very much in agreement. However, there are some areas that do not have a common understanding. I would like to make three points today. The first is the social pillar, where we disagree. We do not think it is up to the European Union to deal with family law, to determine the amount of child benefit and other things. The second is a long-term plan. The Minister spoke warmly for EU handshake and EU Councils here in Sweden. But what is the government's strategic plan for building alliances and finding like-minded people on various priority issues? This is the only way we can have an impact on all the extremely important processes that are now going on. The third is about Nordstream 2. Here the government must become more active, especially in the EU area, but I do not have a pro-activity. In international law, it is difficult for Sweden to say no and stop Nordstream 2. On the other hand, there is an opportunity, via the European Commission, to point out the conflict of objectives between the EU Energy Union and the construction of Nordstream 2. This is the opportunity for more EU countries and the Commission to work in this direction. The construction of Nordstream 2 would seriously affect the security policy situation in our area.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-222	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Mr Enström, for the questions. I am pleased that much of the EU's cooperation is characterised by a common understanding – I very much agree with that. I will begin with the question of the social pillar. It is a very comprehensive package that the Commission has presented. It is a question of strengthening minimum social standards. This is not about increased supranationality. The Gothenburg Summit will address several of the issues contained in the package, but it will also have a broader agenda. What is important here is that national decision-making powers are not taken over in social matters, and that is not the purpose of the pillar either, but that is to ensure that the situation in many countries is lifted, not least in countries such as Romania and Bulgaria where populations have had reason to move to other countries in order to get better. As far as Nordstream 2 is concerned, it is not realistic that Sweden alone could stop that project. Currently, the company's application to outsource management in the Swedish economic zone is being examined. This examination is carried out in accordance with both Swedish and international law. On the other hand, the government, together with Denmark, has successfully worked towards a thorough discussion at EU level on the compatibility of the project with the EU acquis and energy policy objectives. That discussion will begin soon. The Commission has just presented a proposal for a mandate which will form the basis for negotiations with Russia on a legal framework for the project. We will have reason to return to Parliament on this issue.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-227	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your comments. The whole project Nordstream 2 is a typical example of where Sweden cannot act alone. We need to find allies and like-minded people to build strategic partnerships with in order to get our way. I feel like the government's been slow. You've been waiting and waiting. It did not take the opportunity to be co-signatories of a letter sent already in March 2016 about the concerns that existed in several Member States about what the construction of Nordstream 2 would mean. I would like to hear what the government's strategy is in addition to talking to Denmark. Have people also talked to other countries to try to stop Nordstream 2? The same applies to other crucial issues for the future, ranging from how we, as non-euro area countries, can be involved in taking decisions on all matters concerning the 27 countries of the EU to how the EU will develop in the future. Here, Sweden must find like-minded countries and find partners. What is the long-term strategy? Are there plans for a corresponding EU handshake also with other Member States? How does the Government view this?
i-2642284f8e5ba394-232	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the question. This is a very important issue, not least for our relationship with Britain. Basically on all issues – except for social and labour market issues – we have been able to rely on cooperation and on us voting equally in almost 98% of cases. Now we asked Sieps, the Swedish Institute for European Policy Studies, to look at how we can strengthen the alliances after Brexit. Then it turned out that there is no country that can jump in and take over Britain's place. Instead, we have to look at every issue: which countries can we have a special alliance with to get our views through? On another matter, there may be other countries. Of course, we see Germany as an important ally. At the same time, Sweden and Germany do not at all share the same view on some issues that are very important to Sweden. It is a question of trying to find countries with which we agree. I, the Prime Minister and other ministers have engaged us very much here. For example, I have been at a meeting with French and German European ministers to see how we can work together on environmental, climate and labour market issues. I have initiated cooperation with the nine most digitised EU countries called D9, Digital Frontrunners. The Digital Single Market is crucial for our digital business development and so on. Karin Enström's finger is on this question. It is one of the most important issues for the future.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-238	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for participating in the debate and a speech with which we in the Center Party agree in several respects, although we have different views on the social pillar, for example! But I was going to raise the issue of Europe as a global player in the future. How does the Government see the conditions for the EU to find a common vision of Russia's actions? On 31 July, sanctions will end on Ukraine if an extension is not decided. How does the Government estimate that work will succeed in the future with regard to sanctions policy? There is also reason to highlight how the Government sees Mr Surkov's recent Vladislav in South Ossetia, where Mr Surkov spoke clearly about the future of South Ossetia and the rapprochement that he wants to see to Russia. It almost sounded like a new annexation was approaching. The sanctions concern Ukraine. But it is important not to forget what is happening in Georgia. There the Russian presence is still clear, and it affects the territorial integrity of Georgia. I would like to hear how the Government assesses the EU's ability to stand up as a global player against Russia and assert the right of small states to choose their own way forward.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-244	Mr President, I would like to Member Kerstin Lundgren! J ag also feels that it feels good that we have a consensus on many issues, although of course we see things differently. The sanctions against Russia will continue. The EU has introduced three different sanctions regimes in response to Russia's actions in Ukraine. All three regimes are linked to respect for Ukraine's internationally recognised borders. Two of the sanctions regimes are in response to Russia's undermining of the territorial integrity of Ukraine through the illegal annexation of the Crimean Peninsula. We expect there to be agreement within the EU to extend these two sanctions regimes in the summer and early autumn of 2017. The third sanction regime is a response to Russia's destabilisation in eastern Ukraine, targeting sectors of the Russian economy. The sanctions are linked to the implementation of the so-called Minsk Agreement, where one of the criteria and conditions is that Ukraine should regain control of its national borders in the conflict zone. The Minsk Agreement is still not implemented. We therefore expect there to be agreement within the EU to extend the so-called sectoral sanctions for another six months.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-249	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. It sounds good if there is a consensus to prolong. Is the government also pushing to tighten sanctions to make them more effective? Several others are pushing this issue. The question of Georgia and what is happening in South Ossetia is important to include in that discussion. Because if the EU is not able to be clear when Russia so clearly marks forward positions, contrary to what we have agreed on in terms of territorial integrity in Europe – the EU is not clear there – it risks opening up to further Russian steps in our eastern neighbourhood. I would therefore still like to have an answer as to whether the government is prepared to act and also to raise Georgia and discuss what is happening there in the talks that are expected in view of the European Council's decision to extend sanctions. Mr President, I would like to I have one more question. It's about the climate. The climate agreement is extremely vital to us and to the whole globe, our globe, and to our children and grandchildren. When I hear the Prime Minister say that Europe must step forward, I agree fundamentally. It is important and right that the European Union should assume its responsibilities and live up to its commitments. However, we have still not found out how the EU is going to solve its own task and how the EU countries are going to allocate burdens. What strategy does the government have to move forward there? We have heard recently that the leaders of Poland think Trump was right. What is the government's plan for the EU to really step forward on climate issues?
i-2642284f8e5ba394-253	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with Kerstin Lundgren on how important it is to stand by the sanctions against Russia and not to waver. The government has no reason whatsoever to change its view on sanctions. We also do not believe that the other countries are beginning to waver on this issue, but have all been united in the response to Russia's actions in Ukraine since 2014. We believe that all sanctions regimes should be extended as long as the Minsk agreement has not been implemented. As far as Georgia is concerned, I can pass the matter on to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because it is rather within her area. As far as the climate agreement is concerned, it has become a bit like after Brexit. Interest in seeing the positive aspects has increased. After Trump decided to leave the Paris Agreement, several countries have stepped forward and said that we in the European Union must take greater responsibility. This has not been the case before. Some of the countries have shown greater commitment, and several countries have said that the issue does not have the same political weight. I certainly see the possibility that the EU's commitment can be strengthened rather than weakened by President Trumps's decision – although I had naturally hoped that the US would remain in the Paris Agreement.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-257	Mr President, I would like to Today's debate can be seen as a summary of the EU. D e electricity is a matter of activity in 2016, with a look back and a look forwards when it comes to the White Paper on the future of the European Union. History and the future are important to know where we want Europe to go. Mr President, I would like to Let me raise an issue that I think is extremely important to mention, namely what Europe has actually meant for Europe. What opportunities have we had? I am so old that I was there when Sweden was not a member of the EU. I remember how it was basically impossible for students to go out in Europe to study. Those who could go abroad were people who had contacts or a large wallet. Today, students can study abroad via Erasmus. This is fantastic, Mr President. See what opportunities this has opened up for young people and what positive effects it has brought to EU countries! I would also like to mention health care. In fact, it is possible for EU citizens to seek medical care in other countries. This, too, is amazing. It is possible to turn to healthcare elsewhere and not only within Sweden and its own county council, but within all EU countries. Let me then address the issue of Schengen and the possibility of travelling around without a passport. This is also incredible. I remember how positive I thought it was as a young person to be able to travel between Malmö and Copenhagen without showing the passport. Now there is the opportunity to travel like that throughout Europe, and this is incredible and great. It deserves to be said again – especially when there is so much talk about whether we should really be in the European Union. Of course we will. Look at all the positive things we have got and see all the possibilities! The EU is also a major global player. We have the Eastern Partnership, to which Sweden, together with Poland, took the initiative. Countries were in line to join the Eastern Partnership. It is important to see what positive effects this has had in the countries that are included. It has contributed to increased democracy, economic growth and trade, both for the EU and for neighbouring countries. Do we really want to stop this? I ask a rhetorical question to those parties here in the Swedish Parliament who express doubts about the EU. Look at the possibilities, grab them and use them! As Kerstin Lundgren of the Center Party said earlier, the EU has meant a great deal. That means a lot in Ukraine and Georgia, but also in Moldova, Mr President. As regards the situation in Transnistria, the EU is an actor to be reckoned with when it comes to peace, democracy and economic growth. Let me also mention that there are still countries knocking on the door and very much want to join the European Union. One of these countries is Montenegro. One issue that was included in the 2016 election campaign was to join the European Union, and the Montenegrins said yes to this.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-266	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that of course I support all the reservations of the Swedish Democrats, but for the time to come, I only support reservations 23 and 31 in the UU10 and reservations in the UU18. The debate has been rather long, which is quite natural because such a large subject is being dealt with. I have heard a lot of things said that have caused me to react. There has been talk of what Europe is, what it is not, what it should be and what it might be. It has been mentioned that Europe is a dream and a guarantor of freedom, and there has been talk of cooperation. The last time we spoke about all the opportunities we have had thanks to the European Union, as if it were the only way to conclude agreements with other countries and as if a supranational Union is the only way to cooperate across national borders. Mr President, I would like to I will not stand here and deny that some of the agreements that form part of the whole concept that the EU has become have been and are good for Sweden. The Swedish democrats see, of course, benefits from free trade agreements, international cooperation against crime, tackling problems in the climate area and seeing the various problems that are horizontal and that need to be tackled together with others. Mr President, I would like to Indeed, European cooperation is not just these positive things. It is not just a cooperation where we get things that benefit us, but it has also led to a lot of backsides and to the fact that we have lost much power over our own country. If I conclude an agreement with another person or party, no matter what area it is, I do not want it to mean that I commit myself to thousands of other agreements and to future renegotiations of this agreement, no matter what it means. For my part, it is quite obvious that I shall have the opportunity to take a position on each individual agreement that I enter into, there and now and on my own terms. It becomes even more complicated, of course, if there are a lot more people in these agreements and it is not just between me and another person but it is all of a sudden 10, 20 or 27 parties that will unite in each individual part. This is where much of the EU's problems lie. Over the years we have seen mocking examples where it is lifted up what shape it should be on vegetables and so on, but I think everyone can agree that they have tried to get away from. But we have seen, not least in recent years, how the policy is moving towards an increasing number of areas which it would not initially deal with at all and which it agrees on are really national matters. We are seeing how, at the moment, we are desperately trying to find some sort of solution to migration policy, in which countries will no longer be allowed to control themselves who resides in their countries and on their territory, but this will be governed by agreements within a Union that has so far failed to keep track of its external borders and guarantee security. We see in the White Paper how the EU talks about future scenarios where the EU still has a place, despite the fact that more and more voices are saying that it does not work and that they will want to leave. An increasing number of important areas have been stalled, and this, Mr President, is something to take very seriously and to be very concerned about. Those in power down in Brussels do not realize that they are gaping for far too much and that they are destroying an entire continent in their work.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-276	Mr President, I would like to We go from one area to another – they are not completely disconnected, however. I would like to begin by calling for the Swedish Democrats' reservation in the SfU25 report to be accepted in a coherent manner with a fixed-term residence permit. As we all know, Sweden faced an exceptional challenge or crisis in autumn 2015, when more people than ever before in a shorter time than ever before made their way to our area and chose to apply for asylum in our country. This, of course, put the whole of society to great trials. As a result, the government parties and certain other parties in this House also finally realised that we really need to limit the regulatory framework and ensure that it is complied with in our country. In practice, Sweden cannot have almost open borders with very generous rules for those who go to our area to apply for asylum, whether they have asylum reasons or not. As a result, temporary legislation was put in place to try to control the situation. Today we are dealing with a report as a result of the nature of this temporary legislation. It has been concluded that with more people now being granted temporary residence permits rather than permanent residence permits, there are certain consequences. Different grants and support given to people who have a residence permit in our country risk – if you now choose to use that expression – no longer being valid for those who have a residence permit that has expired. Whether or not these contributions should exist is a matter for itself, as we have discussed in many other cases and reports. What the Swedish Democrats think there is, I believe, common knowledge: Swedish welfare systems are primarily for Swedish citizens and, secondly, for those who work their way into our society and contribute to the systems themselves. Having said that, I would like to point out that the proposal on the table is very strange. Efforts have been made to make it clear that we in Sweden should have control, we should have rules that are complied with and we should be at a minimum level in the European Union. It should not be particularly beneficial to get here compared to other countries, because it is simply not a sustainable system, nor does it help those who need it most. At least we see that these may be some of the main reasons. Despite this, the government, with the support of the alliance parties, is now choosing to make it possible to get a lot of support and subsidies even if you do not have a residence permit in the country. The legislation is designed so that only you can submit an application for renewal as late as the last day you have a valid residence permit, you must have continued access to all the systems you have entered. In my world, this is completely unthinkable for a number of reasons. This became clear not least when we visited the Migration Board last week in Gothenburg. They talked about how they are now beginning to prepare for the renewal processes and the first temporary residence permits. The shortest limits have been 13 months, and the first renewals will come this summer. They talked about how long they themselves expect to need to go through a renewal application. It's about one to two months. Therefore, if they choose to apply for renewal, they send out letters to all those who have temporary residence permits and ask them to submit documents. On one question from me, it was mentioned that it will simply give priority to the applications that fall within the last few months so that no one will have to be left out of the system. The legislation now proposed will mean that there is no longer any reason to give priority to applications from persons who have a residence permit at risk. Instead, there is a risk of further extension of times. More people who are in our country for a long time without a valid residence permit will have access to a lot of different systems, support and grants. Madam President, I would like There has also been talk in recent days of the new laws coming into force. We have a new system of start-up aid, which is aimed in many ways at people who are in our country and who lack education, perhaps precisely because they have not grown up in that country. They should be able to apply for additional, specific and targeted grants to get started with their training. This may sound good and positive. Of course, it is easier to contribute to the Swedish system as a whole and to Swedish society if you are educated for it. But the problem is that this takes no account whatsoever of where our country is, who is in our country and why, and how our country and our welfare system should stay together. This is one of the grants that will now be available even if you do not have a residence permit, because you simply submit your renewal application on the last day you have a valid residence permit. The report specifically focuses on student aid as a whole. It is mentioned that it is something that has actually been aimed at those who have permanent residence permits and are expected to be here for other reasons and that one expects to stay in the country. They have not come to Sweden primarily to study. It doesn't matter whether it's the primary reason or not on paper. For a country that claims to have recognised the importance of being at EU minimum levels and of reducing the pull effects of inappropriate asylum applications in our country, it is not sustainable to provide access to more and more parts of our welfare system. This applies as soon as they are in our territory, have applied for asylum and have received some form of application granted. It should definitely not apply if they do not even request to have their application renewed in time to be processed before the expiry of their residence permit. Madam President, I would like In my world, it's very simple. The Swedish welfare system is for Swedish citizens. It is also for those who contribute to our society and work their way into our systems. It is certainly not for those who are on our territory without a valid permit.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-293	Madam President, I would like The proposal we are debating today means that people whose temporary residence permits have expired no longer return to the reception system and to be regarded as asylum seekers during the period during which their application for a new residence permit is being processed, with some exceptions. This means that, while the new application is being examined, they are still entitled to certain measures, social security and other benefits such as asylum seekers are denied. These are good and important changes. The Left Party welcomes the proposal in general because it corrects some of the problems created by the law on temporary restrictions on the possibility of obtaining a residence permit in Sweden, which is called the Temporary Act. At the same time, it cannot be ignored that all these are the consequences of the very temporary law and that the changes are necessary precisely because of that. The Left Party, as everyone knows, is very critical of the temporary law because it creates great suffering and uncertainty for people seeking asylum in Sweden. We believe that it should be withdrawn. Although the Left Party welcomes the Government's ambition to improve the reception of asylum seekers in Sweden, there are several shortcomings in the proposal. It is such that the application for a new residence permit must be made on the same basis as the previous residence permit or under any provision of the Temporary Act and that the application for a renewed residence permit must be made before the expiry of the previous residence permit. It is also the case that EU citizens seeking asylum are exempted from the LMA Act unless there are exceptional reasons – we propose specific reasons – and that decisions on Dublin transfer are treated in the same way as decisions on expulsion. On these points, the Left Party has proposals that reduce the risk of people getting caught in an unnecessarily harsh and harsh system. These are proposals that facilitate inclusion and establishment in society. When a residence permit expires, the individual must apply for a new residence permit in order to retain the right to reside in Sweden. In other countries, such as Germany, there is another regime where temporary residence permits are renewed more automatically unless something specific has happened in the individual case. Such a system reduces the burden on both the individual and the asylum system. It is also likely to provide greater security for asylum seekers. The Left Party believes that the possibility of introducing such a solution with an automatic renewal of residence permits should be explored. Madam President, I would like With this, I support the Left Party's reservation No 2.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-297	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Social Security Committee's report 25 A coherent reception of temporary residence permits and, therefore, the rejection of all reservations. This report contains a number of elements in which the key words are precisely a coherent reception. Based on the Act on temporary restrictions on the possibility of obtaining a residence permit in Sweden, it needs to be adjusted in other areas in order to achieve a coherent reception here in Sweden. The report therefore proposes that persons applying for a residence permit extension before it expires should not be subject to the law on the reception of asylum seekers again. It is in order to avoid the negative consequences that may arise for the individual in the event of a return to the receiving system or in the event of confusion as to the regulatory framework to be applied. It is simply a matter of ensuring that those who are granted residence permits that are limited in time can receive just one single reception. As a consequence of that proposal and a coherent reception, the proposal that those who are registered in Sweden and have applied for a residence permit – it is those who have a fixed-term residence permit and have applied for renewal – will also not go back and be covered by the Act on Health Care for Asylum Seekers. In order to obtain a good coherent reception, it is also proposed that the Social Security Code, the Study Support Act and the Start-up Support Act be amended so that residence-based social security benefits and student assistance, student funding and start-up support can be paid even if the temporary residence permit has expired but the person concerned has submitted an application for a residence permit extension before the previous one has expired. For us Social Democrats, it is important to get a coherent reception with establishment in Sweden. As long as the person in question resides legally in Sweden, we believe that the possibility of receiving benefits should remain. It is good if, for example, people who have applied for a renewed residence permit continue to study. Otherwise, what we risk doing on the part of the state is rolling over costs and administration above all to the municipalities. This is where most will turn while their renewed application is being processed. It is not reasonable for us to act in this way on the part of the state. The next proposal in the report concerns the alignment with the EU Treaty of the Asylum Protocol on asylum for citizens of EU Member States. It states that asylum applications from nationals of other EU countries may be examined in three specific cases, and they are all three exceptional situations. For this reason, it is proposed that EU citizens should only be covered by the Act on the Reception of Asylum Seekers and Others. if there are particular reasons. The last proposal in the report is that a transfer decision under the Dublin Regulation should be regarded as a decision on expulsion for the purposes of the law on the reception of asylum seekers and others. The Dublin Regulation allows a person applying for asylum in Sweden to be transferred to another Member State if that State is considered to be responsible for examining the application under the Regulation. Here, the Act on the Reception of Asylum Seekers needs to be adapted to enable effective transfers from Sweden to other EU countries. The Administrative Court of Appeal has examined this and concluded that there is no legal support to equate transfer decisions with expulsion decisions. What we are doing now is amending the law and thus facilitating the enforcement of transfer decisions.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-304	Madam President, I would like I will not prolong the debate too much. But I feel that I still have to ask the question: how do you think when you don't set any time limit for when a person should have submitted an application for renewal in order to have continued access? I understand that it believes that it wants a coherent reception according to the premises it advocates as a whole for reception. However, it would still be reasonable to demand that anyone who wants to stay longer in our country and believes that they have reasons to do so should submit an application on time. This applies not least given that the Migration Agency sends out reminders that it is now time and that it would make it very much easier for the Migration Agency to manage the administration. You know when the applications will expire, and you know when they will need to be renewed. This also applies with regard to the fact that the Migration Agency, which is heavily burdened, now knows that it wants to prioritise the applications that are about renewal in order to have time for them so that there are no gaps. What is now at risk with the proposal, where it is enough to have submitted an application for renewal at all, is for people to stay here much longer. They may risk having another two years' time waiting for the new application to be processed because there are such long queues at the Migration Agency. This leads to new uncertainty for the individual who has applied for renewal – hardly a good basis for the coherent reception they claim to protect with their own starting points. This also leads to increased chaos at the Migration Agency, and it leads to people who do not have a valid residence permit in Sweden getting access to large parts of our welfare system. It definitely undermines support for the policy that the government wants to pursue. I don't mind, of course, but I honestly don't understand how you think.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-309	Madam President, I would like The most important thing is to submit an application for an extension of the permit before the old one has expired. Those are the rules that apply. We do not believe that the Migration Agency will suddenly do a worse job because this possibility exists, but we believe that it will do exactly what it says: prioritise applications for the extension of residence permits. We stand by the fact that the temporary law with essentially fixed-term residence permits that we now have should not result in individuals being punished for not having time to deal with their new applications before the end of time. The most important thing is that they stay legally here in Sweden.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-312	Madam President, I would like That is precisely what the Migration Agency is, as we all know, regardless of our position in the rest of the world, extremely overloaded. There are a lot of applications and very long queues. The Migration Agency's administrators themselves have said that with the law looking like it is right now, at the moment, priority will be given to those who risk falling outside the systems and getting a renewed process because they do not want any gaps to arise. However, this change will mean that a person who submits his/her application on the last day no longer needs to be given priority. It may seem more important to give priority to someone who has waited for a long time. That person is already inside the systems. That person already has access to very much of what one might have shared opinions about whether or not to have access to but which in some cases motivates the person to stay in this country and get access to a lot of what we jointly fund without having ensured whether it is right or not. The whole background to the fact that we have temporary residence permits at the moment was to establish a need for those who receive the permit and lay us at a minimum level. This is totally eroded by this legislation, as it is enough that you have received a temporary residence permit once and submit an application on the last day it is valid for you to end up last in the Migration Agency's system and be able to continue here, perhaps for several years, without a valid residence permit during that time because you no longer need priority. It's a policy that doesn't make sense. It is a policy that creates new holes, creates uncertainty and does far more harm than good. I ask the question once again: what would be so difficult to set a deadline of one or two months before the application expires? If you have submitted it in time before then you can then blame the Migration Agency. Then it is the Migration Agency that has not done its job. But if you wait until the last day, if you don't care to apply on time and yet will have access to a lot of things, it's actually your own responsibility. That possibility should not exist.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-317	Madam President, I would like Then I will once again reply to Paula Bieler that the purpose of this legislation is not to penalise individuals. What you are doing with your proposals is risking the punishment of individuals. You also risk rolling over costs to the municipalities. We do not want to contribute to that. That is why these proposals lie. We do not think – I repeat – that the Migration Board will suddenly do a worse job because this possibility exists, because individuals are not punished. We believe that the Migration Agency will do the job that has been said to do.
i-FMfVaSxQmThcB3qxWSrPH9	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Government's proposal for a coherent reception with temporary residence permits. The proposal contains proposals aimed at improving the establishment of those who now receive temporary residence permits rather than permanent ones. During a three-year period, Sweden now has a limited-term law that involves a more restrictive policy than before. One of the differences is that the need for protection is now granted temporary residence permits even for long-term protection needs when they are unlikely to be able to return. If the ordinary Aliens Act were to apply now, they would be granted permanent residence permits immediately. Instead, the permits will now be temporary – 13 months or 3 years – and renewed. In order to ensure that persons who are obliged to have their temporary residence permits re-examined do not get caught up in any way, the Government presents these changes in order to ensure a coherent reception and better establishment. Persons who renew their temporary residence permits shall not lose their rights when they have temporary residence permits. They should not be considered as asylum seekers again and thus go back to the Migration Agency's reception system. The establishment shall not be interrupted and the individual shall continue to have access to residence-based benefits. Anything else would be unreasonable. This would make it much more difficult to set up and would mean more administrative and administrative burdens for authorities and municipalities. An important part of this is that the Government proposes that the person who has been granted a residence permit that has been limited in time under the Temporary Act or granted a residence permit under the Temporary Act should have the same right to study aid as persons who have been granted a permanent residence permit. The Government proposes to introduce an explicit rule on this in the Student Support Act. In addition, the right to study aid shall remain when a temporary residence permit expires – provided that an application for a continued permit on the same basis or a new permit under any provision of the Temporary Act has been submitted to the Finnish Immigration Service before the previous permit has expired. Restrictions on access to LMA are also proposed for EU citizens and Dublin transfers. I support the proposal in the report.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-326	Madam President, I would like I will see if I can get a clearer and more thought-out response from the representatives of the other government party. My question is basically the same as the one I just asked: does the Green Party and the Government see any problem at all with the fact that the proposal they are now putting forward risks extending the renewal process extra much and getting people to stay in the country without a valid residence permit for an extra long time rather than having a fast and effective renewal process because the applicant has limited time to submit his application, during which time the Migration Board is expected to deal with it so that gaps do not arise? That is, of course, the result of this legislation, no matter how you turn it around and turn it around. If applicants are allowed to maintain access to various welfare and establishment systems as it is now designed only by submitting their application on the last day the residence permit is valid, the applicant will reside in the country without a valid residence permit. Then there is no reason for the Migration Agency to prioritise these applications because the applicants are already in the system. If, instead, there is a system that requires the application to be submitted in good time before the expiry of the residence permit, there is also reason for the Migration Agency to prioritise these applications to ensure that those who are in the country have a valid residence permit and that the grounds for the temporary law actually remain and are complied with. There is no point in having a temporary law on temporary residence permits if it does not matter, if you still have access to welfare systems for all eternity only if you submit a paper on a certain date without there being any limitation on when it should have been processed. Is this problem seen in the first place by the government?
i-2642284f8e5ba394-332	Madam President, I would like No, I don't see such a problem. I do not see that people would deliberately pull it out into the last and submit the application on the last day. I don't think that's how people will act. They want the security that it means to have a residence permit, and I think that people do not want to end up in the situation of asylum seekers again. But I think that will happen anyway because of long processing times. Even if the kind of restrictions proposed by Paula Bieler were to be imposed, I certainly believe that there is a risk that the Migration Agency would not be able to deal with matters. We don't know how much case management you have. They handle many different types of cases and currently have very long queues. I think the risk is far too great for people to fall outside. What would happen then is that they would go back to being considered asylum seekers, have to move back into asylum homes, have to interrupt their education and have other rules regarding health care and the like. I see this as a much bigger problem than the need to speed up the process and try to get people to submit applications a month earlier, because people who would be affected would be hit extremely hard. I don't see that as reasonable at all. In this situation, where we will have a great many people with long-term protection needs who need to renew their permits, we need to ensure that they can resolve this successfully that does not impair their establishment. Basically, it is about the individual's ability to both establish and start their start here in Sweden. It is also about Sweden having to make sure that the people who come here are as well equipped as possible to become part of society and be able to contribute and develop. Sweden does not do this with the proposal put forward by the Swedish Democrats.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-337	Madam President, I would like It is quite funny to stand here and listen, because much of what is said would be counteracted by having a deadline that makes it clear that if you have submitted your application in time, you have done your job, and if it does not have time to process it in time, it is the Migration Agency's responsibility. For exceptional reasons or at a time limit – how one chooses to design it now – it may be the responsibility of the state to continue to pay for a lot of things. But with the government system, there is no incentive whatsoever to submit your application on time. There is also no incentive whatsoever for the Migration Agency to prioritise and fast-track the matters related to renewal. The people involved can safely move back to the back of the queue again and return to uncertainty and to being asylum seekers again. The Migration Agency's handlers themselves said when we visited there last week that they will prioritise renewals so that people will not fall between the chairs. However, with this proposal there is no such reason; the Migration Agency's administrator will give priority to new applications. There is no reason whatsoever for them to give priority to renewal applications. There is no reason whatsoever to see the temporary residence permit law as valid, because it is completely deleted from the current system. Do you not see the problem of not securing the point of having a time limit undermining the legislation in place? People are relegated to the far back with long processing times. It would have been easy to work around this by specifying when it is the responsibility of the Migration Agency and the state that has fallen into too long processing times and when it is the individual himself who has not applied in time.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-343	Madam President, I would like If such a deadline were to be introduced as proposed by the Swedish Democrats, a carrot would be given to the Migration Agency to deal with these matters more quickly. But even if it were the responsibility of the Migration Agency not to deal with a matter, it would be unreasonably hard for the individual. Even if we say from the political point of view that it is the responsibility of the Migration Agency, the individual will be affected because the person in question would not be able to stay on his or her residence, remain in his or her class or do other things that are part of an initial establishment. In addition, unlike now, when you feel obliged to deal with extensions or applications for a review of residence permits, this would mean that people who have applied for asylum at a later stage would rather have significantly longer processing times and be asylum seekers for longer than today. I am not sure that it is better, but I think that the Government's proposal is the best thing to ensure that people are not caught up, that they can continue at their schools, in their internships and in their accommodations and that they can better get into society. I believe that the consequences of the Swedish Democrats' proposals would be dangerous to the people affected. It would also be worse for Sweden because we would have a worse establishment, which is always bad for both the state and the individual.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-348	Madam President, I would like In recent years there have been a number of reports that have changed the state of knowledge about health insurance, not least as regards the need for time limits and incentives for different actors in health insurance. The report from the Swedish National Audit Office that we are now discussing is part of this development of knowledge. In short, it shows that a strict assessment of the right to sickness benefit gives rise to positive effects at both individual and social levels. The costs of health insurance are lower, and the individual's work supply is increasing – and this does not result in adverse side effects in terms of impaired health or increased costs of ill health. When the Swedish National Audit Office notes this, it also provides support for a previous report from the Expert Group for Studies in Public Economy that stated: A longer time limit in health insurance is seen as central to achieving a long-term stable sick absence. In the past, the Social Insurance Agency and a wide range of other authorities have also discussed the same issue, namely the importance of having a shorter time limit in health insurance. It is also interesting that a strict assessment favours equal contributions from health insurance. This is because women are relatively more sick than men and are therefore more affected by a strict assessment. In addition, a strict assessment of the right to compensation contributes to reducing economic inequality. This is because health insurance is relatively more often used by people with lower incomes and a refusal of sickness benefit increases the income of the individual. Unfortunately, during the term of office, the government has consistently refused to take on board this state of knowledge. Contrary to what has been pointed out by several expert authorities, it has instead chosen to abolish the longer time limit in health insurance. Unfortunately, when we come together for this debate, we can also note that long periods of sick leave are increasing significantly, not least as a result of the abolition of the time limit. Of course, it is gratifying that the number of sick cases started has decreased, but it does not diminish the fact that the length of sick leave is increasing. Madam President, I would like It is important that future reforms of health insurance are designed in accordance with the knowledge we have and the new information we have received. Therefore, the Moderates have chosen to exercise on something that should be a matter of course but which apparently needs to be emphasized. As has been said, it is gratifying that absenteeism is no longer increasing, but the future is still uncertain. The costs appear to have been parked at a high level. The cost of sickness benefit and rehabilitation is forecast to be over SEK 39 billion this year, and in three years' time the cost is expected to be the same. In four years' time, the cost is expected to be even higher, about SEK 40 billion. This compares with what it looked like in 2010, when the corresponding cost was SEK 20.5 billion. In practice, it is a matter of doubling costs in just ten years. The expert authorities' reports on the need for time limits and controls in order to achieve a long-term stable and sustainable level of sick leave deserve to be taken seriously by the government and lead to reflection and analysis rather than reflexive rejection because they do not comply with the government's political wishes. We believe that the Government should take measures that follow the conclusions highlighted by the Swedish National Audit Office and ensure that proposals in the area of health insurance in the future are based on factual knowledge. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-363	Madam President, I would like Health insurance covers financial security and rehabilitation back to work for people affected by illness. A well-functioning health insurance is of paramount importance to both the individual and society at large. Sickness benefit is part of the general health insurance. It has never been designed to cure or heal, but its purpose is to be a loss of income insurance when illness prevents people from working. Like the government, the committee is concerned about the high rates of illness in the country. The government has prioritised a battery of measures to reduce sick leave. This applies not least to preventive work, where employers take greater responsibility for preventing ill health in workplaces. The importance of occupational health care has been highlighted, and the Swedish Work Environment Authority's review of systematic work environment work has proven to be an important factor in preventing stress, injuries and illness due to work. But people do not get sick by work alone, and not all diseases can be prevented. When you have become ill, it is important that health care and other actors support rehabilitation for return to work as soon as possible. Long passive sick leave without intervention has never been good for the individual, as rehabilitation takes much longer and it becomes more difficult to return to previous work. This is why the current government has strengthened the resources of health care and the Social Insurance Agency, so that rehabilitation back to work will go faster. Audit by the Swedish National Audit Office Is sick leave good for health? has been made on the basis of data from 5,000 cases in 2009 – 2012 sickness cases that were refused sickness benefit application. Applications for extensions which have been rejected are also included in the dossier. The reviewer considers that the result shows that a strict assessment of the right to sickness benefit has positive effects on both the individual and the community level. The costs are reduced as a result of reduced payments of sickness benefits as well as sickness and activity benefits. The individual's work supply is increasing and the risk of exclusion from the labour market is reduced. This occurs without adverse side effects arising in the form of impaired health and increased costs of ill health. The latter has been established by the examiner on the basis that no one has died, had more hospitalisations or received increased medicines that are subsidised. The reviewer of the Swedish National Audit Office concludes that the result suggests that a strict assessment of health insurance leads to a more equal collection of health insurance. This is because women are on sick leave more than men and because, in the event of a refusal of sickness benefit, they reduce their future sick leave more than men. Madam President, I would like You don't have to be Einstein to understand that denying people sickness benefit reduces the cost of health insurance for society. But that it would be good for health with stricter assessment in health insurance has been strongly questioned by among others three researchers from Lund, who in a debate article believe that the Swedish National Audit Office suggests that sick leave is harmful to health and that a more strict application of law would help people. They believe that it cannot be said to be a serious research and reporting effort. They write in their article that one of the conclusions drawn in the summary analysis is that a strict assessment benefits equality. The reason is that women are more sick than men and are therefore more affected when more and more applications are rejected. At the same time, the study shows that women denied sickness benefit do not increase their income to the same extent as men denied sickness benefit. This means that women who are denied sickness benefit are not able to return to work but become poorer or increase their dependence on their spouse's or cohabiting partner's income. The three researchers consider it absurd to talk about gender equality in this context. They also consider that it is not appropriate to define health in the way the report does – as an absence of mortality within three years and an unchanged withdrawal of subsidised medicines and healthcare. They consider it amazing that the Swedish National Audit Office uses such rough measures to measure concepts that at both individual and social levels contain so many dimensions. Madam President, I would like These differences of opinion indicate that the issue is not as simple as it seems. It is essential to remember that health insurance is an insurance for loss of income in the event of illness or injury. It is the preventive work and interventions of the health care system and the rehabilitation that supports the individual back to work that can reduce sickness absence. This is one of our major challenges, and the government has taken on this challenge with a large package of measures. The fact that the audit does not have any recommendations as a result of the audit is probably because the government has already taken a series of measures to break the rising sickness absence. The Government has already commissioned Försäkringskassan to identify and analyse employment and livelihoods among those denied sickness benefit. Between 180 and 380 days in the rehabilitation chain this will be reviewed. Försäkringskassan shall study whether the individual moves to work after the Social Insurance Agency has refused continued sickness benefit and whether the individual returns to the same profession or industry as before the period of sick leave. The Social Insurance Agency shall also examine whether those denied sickness benefit receive other benefits from social security, unemployment insurance or support from social services, or whether they have other sources of supply. The assignment shall be presented by 13 October 2017. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal and reject the motion.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-375	Madam President, I would like I wasn't really going to ask for a line here, but I was a little curious about what Phia Andersson said. She said you don't have to be Einstein to understand that denied compensation reduces government costs. But one must probably almost be Einstein to understand what Phia Andersson thinks about the National Auditor's report. She made a very long reference to what three researchers from Lund had to say, but the question is: What view do Phia Andersson and the Social Democrats have on this issue? These were very strong words that were said about the Swedish National Audit Office. I could, for example, note the concept of unserious research. I think that is quite strong from a government party to an expert authority. Is that really the opinion of the Social Democrats on this report? Then it probably takes a little more grounded analysis instead of just referring to what someone else thinks. These reports may not always fit in when you are in government. I have some experience of this myself. But my overall judgment is that these reports are always very well-founded and quality assured. It is not essays that are being released, but it is something that should be taken very seriously. That you then call this unserious and that it is not research but to present for yourself what is unserious is something that I think raises some question marks, which I would be grateful if Phia Andersson could straighten out.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-379	Madam President, I would like I did not say that was the opinion of the Social Democrats. I said that's what the article says, because it does. With this, I want to show that the Swedish National Audit Office's review has caused quite a lot of external reactions, perhaps precisely because the issue is very complex and because you have to see it from very many different dimensions in order to get right. The increase in sick leave began in 2010. It was four years when a great deal of effort could have been made by the current government. It has been a matter of talking to the social partners. The increased stress in the workplace means that people get sick leave. What can we do to deal with it? What can we do to strengthen occupational health care in this? We know that it is an important factor. We have also said that you cannot have a long passive sick leave, be insured in the far parentheses and then come to Arbetsförmedlingen and again become a sick case after a while. That's exactly what happened earlier. Therefore, a lot of measures have been taken and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has been strengthened in order to be able to carry out these checks at 180 days and so on in order to be able to provide the right support at the right moment. A follow-up of this is also under way.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-383	Madam President, I would like Well, then we have it clarified: it was clearly not the view of the Social Democracy. But the question still remains: What is the view of the government parties on the substance of the matter? Nevertheless, you have chosen to reject this motion. Then I guess there's an analysis of its own and a basis for it. It is not just a matter of referring to what others think. These are important questions. I know that the government is very pleased that sick leave is now decreasing and that the increase is not continuing. So am I. But I would like to point out that this is still a very worrying development. Sick leave remains at a very high level. The costs have doubled in just ten years. There is a long line of things that should happen. Then perhaps I think that a little more time should be spent on this type of report, which not only confirms what you already think or want to hear, but which actually twists and turns things in a very competent way. I would like to repeat: my experience is that the Swedish National Audit Office always comes with well-founded reports. I do not always share the conclusions. However, I think that the conclusions deserve to be taken much more seriously than the government has done in this case. This applies not least to the importance of having effective control mechanisms and time limits in health insurance, which not only the Swedish National Audit Office has emphasised, but also the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, the Swedish Employment Service and the Social Insurance Inspection. I think it would be nice if this insight could also reach the Social Democrats on this issue.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-386	Madam President, I would like The legislation in this area, with 90 days, 180 days and so on, is exactly the legislation that the citizens themselves put forward in 2008. The only thing that's changed is that the distant parentheses have been removed. It did not have that effect. Rather, it had the effect of allowing people to go into a long passive period of sick leave, for it was known that they were insured e. It was known that people still disappeared from insurance at a certain date. What happened was they went to Arbetsförmedlingen. Then they came back into health insurance as a new matter. So they were hidden. Now they're visible. We think that's a good thing. This national audit report makes no recommendations. And exactly what it says, that the deadlines are important, this government has focused on. What the Moderates write in their motion is actually breaking open doors. There's so many open doors there's going to be rough moves. This has already been done. The Swedish National Audit Office is probably of the opinion that these measures are good, since no recommendations have been made.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-388	Madam President, I would like Today, we are dealing with the Social Security Committee's report 22, which deals with the government's letter as a result of the audit carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office. I would like to begin by calling for the rejection of all supplementary motions and therefore for our reservation 1. Before we go into the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the reform carried out in 2008 in the area of labour immigration, I think we should approach the issue itself, that is, labour immigration itself. As a starting point, we must remember that labour migration is good and positive for Sweden. Our country needs a labour immigration system that meets the needs of recruiting skills abroad. It is good that companies that find it difficult to find skills can recruit staff from other countries. It is good for our age structure that people of working age come here. And it is good for Sweden and the country's economy. In short, well-functioning labour migration contributes to growth and prosperity. That is the starting point for us Social Democrats. Labour immigration also has a long history in Sweden. Already in the Middle Ages we had a labour migration of Hansa Germans. Erikskrönikan says that Magnus Ladulås favored foreign men, in this case Germans, in order to make our business life more efficient. During the 17th century we attracted poplons from today's Belgium to gain expertise in mining and iron ore management. Already Karl IX built a city on Hisingen intended for immigrants from today's Netherlands. At the end of the 16th century and in parts of the 17th century, Finns from Savo settled in different parts of the country. This meant that the finns in northern Sweden received a large immigration from Savolax finns, and this meant that knowledge of svedjebruk was spread. Large parts of Central Sweden, not least the forest areas in the west, would have looked in a completely different way if it had not been for the scorched finns, who came here in the 1600s. Other immigrants were attracted to Sweden for military reasons. German, Scottish and French officials, mercenaries and adventurers were employed in the Swedish army or agencies. Sweden has also benefited from French artists, philosophers and intellectuals during the 1700s as well as Italians who could make stucco when the 19th century stone towns were built. The period of prosperity of labour immigration was, of course, in the 1960s and 1970s, when tens of thousands of people from Turkey, Greece, Italy and Yugoslavia came to Sweden. In short, Sweden has been characterised by labour migration. It has benefited Sweden, and it has led to growth and prosperity. At the same time, it is important that our system works, that the rules are balanced and that third-country workers have good conditions of employment. Labour immigration rules must not lead to wage dumping or make it easier for rogue employers to cheat on conditions and exploit foreign labour. In short, we must not be naive. There are problems in the area of labour migration. For us Social Democrats, it is important that people are not exploited in these systems and that this does not undermine the Swedish model. There must therefore be order and order in the Swedish labour market. What does the Swedish National Audit Office say? Well, the Swedish National Audit Office notes, Madam President, that between 5 and 10 per cent of labour migration is in occupational groups with medium or low qualification requirements, where it is not obvious why these people are recruited from third countries by Swedish employers. In that group, there are probably people who have applied but not received asylum and whose permission is not based on a serious job offer. About 10 per cent of those paid in 2014 did not meet the criterion of having a monthly salary of SEK 13 000. However, the Swedish National Audit Office's report continues to show that, in some professions, the problems remain considerable: among beauty care workers, cleaners, butchers, bakers, shopkeepers and cashiers, kitchen assistants and newspaper distributors, wages have fallen below the supply requirement for more than 20 per cent of labour immigrants in the profession, even after the special sector control was introduced in January 2012. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like We must not turn a blind eye to these problems. That's why the government set up an investigation on this very subject. In December last year, the report SOU 2016:91 Strengthened the position of labour migrants in the labour market. The inquiry made proposals in this particular area. The proposals from the investigation are currently being handled by the Government Office. Among other things, they are working on a proposal to give the Migration Agency access to relevant data from the Swedish Tax Agency, which is also proposed in this report from the Swedish National Audit Office. In addition, the Government has already commissioned the Agency to shorten its processing times in the Migration Agency's regulation letter, which is also one of the conclusions of the audit report. For us Social Democrats, two things are important. On the one hand, a simple and well-functioning labour immigration system is needed. On the other hand, we will remedy the shortcomings and ensure that our labour market is in order. There must be a stop to people being exploited by rogue employers. We also know that the legislation introduced by the Alliance Government in 2008 in this area has shortcomings. The system has been developed on several occasions to reduce the cheating and exploitation of people. A judgment from the Migration Court in 2015 meant that practices were clearly changed in a way that, in my view, is difficult to find support for in the preparatory work. Today, labour immigrants are also expelled in the event of minor deviations or deviations that have long been resolved. My view is that this was not the legislator's intention, and, for example, the Bar Association's Anne Ramberg has stated that the Migration Court of Appeal, through its rulings, is clearly unable to apply the current legislation effectively and reasonably, and therefore this legislation needs to be changed. We already know that the government is working on a bill with the possibility for employers to correct shortcomings in the conditions before the Migration Agency has checked the matter. The government believes that the possibility of correction must exist because otherwise it will have far-reaching consequences for labour immigrants. This is important and welcome. In addition, there is a need to investigate an opportunity to correct minor, non-intentional mistakes after the Migration Board has pointed out shortcomings. However, this must be done wisely, and this is not the time to be an opportunist. The legislation that is being introduced must also last over time, which it clearly does not do from 2008. The Alliance wants to make an announcement in this area, and when I read it, I perceive it to be opportunist. Indeed, it is the Alliance's legislation that is currently in force and which today has obvious problems. Now we want to reschedule legislation that is in danger of having new shortcomings. Madam President, I would like We need both labour immigration and order and the labour market. These are our starting points as Social Democrats, and that is why the government's letter is balanced. That is why I am in favour of our reservation; as I said, there are strong reasons for this. Firstly, we think that labour migration is a positive thing. Secondly, we need a system where people are not exploited. Thirdly, we need order and order in the labour market. For those who think all three are important, there is only one way to vote, and that is in favour of the reservation.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-411	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for our reservation 2 in the report to be approved. Very wisely has just been said from this speaker's seat, I have to admit. Of course, labour migration throughout the ages has been very positive to our country and is doing so even today. A well-functioning system of labour immigration benefits both our country, the country from which people come, and not least the people themselves and the companies that can receive labour from other countries. As has just been pointed out, the current system unfortunately contains shortcomings. Once again, as has just been said, the report shows that, even if it is not a majority, a large proportion of those who are granted a residence permit for reasons of employment receive it in low-skilled occupations where there is no shortage of labour. It also emerges that there are problems with supervision and the exploitation of people. There have been examples of the use of labour immigration as a means of circumventing the rules we have on asylum immigration, the so-called 'change of tracks', which is otherwise encouraged by most of the other parties in this House and, to some extent, by the Social Democrats as well. It is therefore a little strange to have just heard this speech from a representative of that party. It is therefore common for people to have sloppy, inadequate employment contracts in order to stay in the country, although they have never really intended to come here as labour immigrants, but have taken the chance and applied for asylum here without having the right to do so. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are a party that has been advocating for a long time a view of labour immigration that ensures that there is actually some kind of need for the labour force that comes to our country. Basically, each country should strive to maintain a reasonable balance. Migration cannot be seen as the solution to imbalances. This is in no way contrary to the fact that one can, of course, also learn from one another and have fruitful exchanges. In a global world in which we live today, we will always trade and exchange skills with other countries. But basically, each country should strive for a balance. That is our starting point. Our starting point is that people should not be seen as some kind of production unit to be moved across the globe between different countries and continents in order to keep some kind of production going. Instead, you should have as much opportunity as you can to live most of your life in the country you want to call your home country. One should not be induced or forced to migrate solely for economic reasons. Having said that, in this report we have a reservation which is precisely that the Migration Agency, as the situation is right now, should at least try to ensure that priority is given to cases where people apply for work permits in relation to shortage professions, where we need staff and where we know that those who come to our country and apply for work permits also have skills that are missing and where an exchange is justified, at least at the moment. In the long term, of course, we want a transition to more controlled, needs-tested labour migration at all, with better access to education systems in our country, with good foresight in terms of what we need and good opportunities for exchanges when justified. Madam President, I would like A few weeks ago, in this House, the committee examined the main report on labour immigration. On that occasion, my party and I received some criticism that we did not support the alliance parties' reservations about ensuring the possibility of obtaining a work permit where today it may unfortunately be rejected for incorrect and inappropriate reasons. I said then that I hoped that with more reasonable wording it would be possible for us to reach a consensus. This has also happened today. As we have just heard, there is a reservation from the government parties, along with the Left Party, which today criticises the fact that the committee is once again pointing out that the government is acting far too slowly, including in terms of ensuring a well-functioning control system, such as access to data from the Tax Agency. After all, there have been proposals that have been made for a long time, but you choose to drag it out unnecessarily. It is also about the very fact that today we have a system where people can be expelled because they have got their job through the wrong call place or because of mistakes that a previous employer has made and that one may not even have had a proper opportunity to check. That is, of course, an unreasonable position, and it is, of course, completely unreasonable for the committee to point this out time and again to the government without anything happening. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats may not always and fully share the Alliance's position on this. We didn't support it before. We do not think that it should generally be as simple as possible for everyone to come here and work, regardless of what lies behind it. We do not support demands for changes of track. We think there are good reasons for demanding control over who comes here. Nevertheless, there is reason to criticise the government for failing to act. Madam President, I would like There's really not much to add. I request the approval of reservation 2. There is a call for the Migration Agency to prioritise the labour force that has reason to come to our country and where Sweden has a need for these people here. Hopefully, the main text of the report will be an invitation to the Migration Agency to give priority to cases other than expelling persons who have received their position via Linkedin rather than through the Employment Service. There is a clear signal here and now from the committee as a whole.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-428	Madam President, I would like The lack of competence is one of the biggest obstacles for companies in Sweden to develop, expand and remain competitive. International matching of labour increases the conditions for companies to find the specific skills needed for them to grow and develop their businesses. In addition to matching problems, the demographic challenge also means that there is a great need for labour migration in the coming decades. Deteriorated conditions and conditions for labour immigrants, such as long processing times at the Migration Agency or increased risk of having their residence permit revoked due to minor mistakes by employers, reduces Sweden's attractiveness and risks hindering the necessary skills migration. A well-functioning labour migration contributes to increased prosperity and growth in the country and enables individuals to develop and create a better life situation. In two reports, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has examined the importance of labour migration for Swedish companies and their contribution to production and welfare. In one report, data from the Finnish Immigration Service and SCB have been analysed for approximately 7,000 companies which together recruited nearly 52,000 persons from outside the EU/EEA during the period 2009-2013. The report notes that labour migration has a positive impact on the development of enterprises in a wide range of sectors. Companies recruiting labour immigrants are relatively large, produce large socio-economic values and are often in growth stages. As both recipients and control companies differ on several points from average companies, the results cannot be generalised to all Swedish companies. The results do not mean that an average Swedish company will increase its productive capacity simply by recruiting labour immigrants, but rather that labour migration brings very large added value for companies in development phases with a need for specific skills to develop and create growth. Companies themselves describe that recruitment of equivalent skills was not possible if they had not been able to recruit people on the international labour market to the same extent as in the current system. This applies to companies in different sectors and with both high and low knowledge intensity as the labour force in demand is not available on the Swedish labour market. This may involve software companies with a need for specialists with limited programming skills, seasonal or physically demanding jobs that do not attract individuals in a Swedish labour market, or chefs with specific knowledge of food originating in countries other than Sweden. Specialist skills, diversity and international experience are factors that have brought great added value to companies. In the second report, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has examined to what extent labour immigrants contribute to socio-economic development by adding production and tax revenue. It has been concluded that the annual contribution of labour immigrants to Swedish production amounts to approximately SEK 10 billion. The direct effects, which include the value of labour immigrants' labour force, amount to SEK 7.4 billion. A further 3 billion are added in the form of indirect spill-over effects in the economy. The contribution of labour immigrants to tax revenue amounts to approximately SEK 4.2 billion annually, of which SEK 3 billion in direct effects and SEK 1.2 billion in indirect taxes. If labour migration were to fall by 10 per cent, the contribution to the Swedish production level would fall by the equivalent of 1 billion. Tax revenues would fall by almost half a billion. Since 2008, Sweden has had a demand-driven framework for labour immigration, which the Green Party, together with the then bourgeois government, was involved in introducing. Individual employers' assessment of labour needs is a starting point. However, in order to be granted a work permit, two basic conditions must be met. First, employment must enable the employee to make a living. According to practice, this means that the gross salary must be at least SEK 13 000. The second condition is that the salary, insurance cover and other conditions of employment should not be worse than those resulting from Swedish collective agreements or practices in the industry. During the last term of office, the Green Party and the then bourgeois government made a few changes to the legislation. Data had come to light on the abuse of the acquis by rogue employers. One change that was made was to allow work permits to be revoked if it turns out that the conditions for the permit are not fulfilled. It also introduced a criminalised obligation to provide information on employment conditions for employers. The Finnish Immigration Service was given the opportunity to carry out so-called post-controls. The transition period, i.e. the period for seeking a new job after a job has ceased, was extended from three to four months. The time limit that needs to have had a job in order to qualify for a change of track for labour migration was also reduced from six to four months for asylum seekers. Changes were also made which made it easier to obtain permanent residence permits for migrant workers. Since the legislative changes came into force and a judgment has clarified how strict the laws are to be applied, several decisions on the withdrawal of residence permits and decisions to refuse the extension of residence permits have been brought to the attention of the media. This, in turn, has caused great concern among labour immigrants and in companies dependent on foreign labour. The Centre for Justice has reviewed 450 expulsion cases for the period 2015-2016, most of which relate to the extension of work permits. The survey shows that the grounds for expulsion can be divided into three types. The first case is conditional deviations, i.e. more or less minor deviations from the terms of employment required by the Finnish Immigration Service. They are often unintentional and compensated by the employer afterwards. In 303 of the 450 cases examined by the Centre for Justice, the labour immigrants were expelled because the terms of employment of the Act were not considered to be fulfilled. It may be that the person has earned a few cents too little in salary in relation to the applicable collective agreements, or that the employer has failed to pay an insurance policy. The second case is advertising errors, i.e. that the employment has not been advertised correctly according to the Migration Agency. In 82 of the 450 cases the service had not been advertised correctly. According to the law, the employment must be advertised for ten days. The third case is the late application, i.e. the authorisation has not been extended because the extension application is not deemed to have arrived on time or when other formal requirements have not been met. There is no legal support to expel someone on this basis, and the Migration Agency has therefore changed its practice in September 2015. The persons who have been granted a residence permit to work in Sweden have applied according to certain rules. However, if, after four years of working with a temporary residence permit, they apply for a permanent residence permit, their application is re-examined and can then be rejected on the basis of requirements that did not apply when they were first granted a residence permit. These requirements have been added as we have made subsequent changes. This means that the same application that has previously granted a residence permit may, when re-examined, lead to a refusal due to changes in regulations or procedures. The predictability of the individual is very poor. It is difficult for employers to know what conditions are required because collective agreements, which are not public documents, are difficult to obtain and in many cases difficult to understand. In several cases, applications have been rejected because the employer has missed an amendment to a collective agreement. Continued long processing times and complicated administrative processes for new applications for work permits and for extension applications also have a negative impact on the conditions for recruiting international workers. The Government has already taken several measures in response to the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendation to both shorten the Migration Agency's processing times during permit testing and streamline control. The report Strengthened the position of labour immigrants in the labour market proposes, in addition to proposals to give the Finnish Immigration Service direct access to certain tasks such as the Swedish Tax Agency and strengthening control, also provisions on fake employment and on criminal liability for employers who deliberately do not meet the requirements of pay and insurance. The study also proposes that serious employers should be given the opportunity to correct shortcomings in the conditions so that workers can be granted an extension of their work permit. According to the report, no minor mistakes should lead to the expulsion of the migrant labour force and thus to the loss of the necessary skills by employers. A proposal for self-healing will therefore be implemented. Within the Government Office another possibility of self-healing is now being investigated, which concerns the correction of minor, not intentional mistakes after the Migration Board has pointed out shortcomings in the conditions during previous permit periods. The proposal for direct access by the Finnish Immigration Service to certain tasks of, among others, the Swedish Tax Agency is also currently being prepared. This shows how the government is actively working to address the problems that have arisen as a result of the legislation introduced during the last term of office. I look forward to even more proposals improving labour immigration legislation being implemented in Sweden. This is an important issue for the individuals concerned, for companies and for Sweden's development. I request the approval of the S, MP and V reservations.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-452	Madam President, I would like We are debating today's report from the Swedish National Audit Office, which, on the basis of a review of the labour immigration system, has made a number of suggestions for improvements. In April 2017, the Finnish Immigration Service submitted a strategy for efficient accessibility and service and an action plan for implementation. At the same time, as we have heard in previous speeches, the study on measures to strengthen the position of labour migrants in the labour market has made several important proposals in its report in December 2016. The government recently decided on a legislative referral on the possibility to waive the withdrawal of a residence permit for work when the employer has self-managed shortcomings in working conditions. However, it is clear that much remains to be done to ensure, above all, the safety of the worker in the labour market. We have legislation that was introduced in 2008 in cooperation between the Alliance and the Green Party, and we have had to correct it repeatedly in Parliament. I think that this should be reason enough to realise that what needs to be done now is to take a holistic approach so that we actually get to the power shift needed to ensure that it is not only the worker who gets to take the full risk and then also the whole blow in cases where something goes wrong – consciously or unconsciously. Labour migration has historically been positive for Sweden and has contributed to our country's development. A well-functioning labour migration can continue to bring much for the individual who comes here to work as well as for the Swedish economy and labour market and to facilitate the management of labour shortages in different sectors and occupations. People who come here contribute with new knowledge, and new contact areas are created. If labour migration is to continue to make a positive contribution for the employee, employer and society as a whole, there must be guarantees that they as immigrants are not exploited and that they are not used to dump pay and working conditions on the Swedish labour market. We in the Left want to see fair and legally secure rules for labour migration from outside the EU and the EEA. Unfortunately, the rules introduced in 2008 do not match our wishes at all. The current regulatory framework still places the worker in a difficult sub-dependence situation and opens up for exploitation. The power relationship between employers and employees is simply out of balance, to the absolute advantage of the employer. Work and competition must be on equal terms. Everyone who works in Sweden must be entitled to the salaries and conditions regulated by our laws and collective agreements, regardless of where you are born or living. The exploitation of foreign labour and the dumping of wages and working conditions on the Swedish labour market must be stopped. The arguments for the rules introduced in 2008 were that it would be easier to recruit people with specialist knowledge outside Sweden and the EU and the EEA. But in fact, with the exception of IT specialists and some other specialists, it is primarily for jobs without the need for specific vocational training in low-wage sectors that people have been recruited from other continents. Applications for work permits have been received and granted to restaurant assistants, dishwashers and cleaners. Thus, it is hardly due to skills shortages in the country that employers recruit restaurant assistants, dishwashers and cleaners from Asia and North Africa. On the contrary, most suggest that it is possible to acquire labour for wages far below the levels and conditions that apply under Swedish collective agreements that attract employers to recruit abroad. There is plenty of documentation on how foreign workers have been lured here under false premises and exploited in the most shameful way. Both individual trade unions and the media have reported major maladministration in a number of sectors. The problem is also confirmed by the Migration Agency, which believes that the abuse of the current regulations is widespread. In 2016, Aftonbladet showed extensive trade in work permits and also made visible the misery and exploitation that follow in its wake. This is not the first time the situation for labour immigrants has been put in lightning. The hotel and restaurant union has repeatedly told us about the abuses they encounter in the workplace: people who work ten to twelve hours a day every day of the week to appallingly low wages under disgusting conditions and an eternal threat from the employer to lose their job if the conditions do not fit. Furthermore, as we have heard, we now see a series of hair-traveling examples where small errors committed by the employer or conditions such as illness or other things over which the employee has not been able to control himself, such as how the work has been advertised, lead to expulsion for workers who have worked hard in the Swedish labour market for several years, where the rules have changed in the meantime. These are people who also have their families and their whole lives here. It is clear that this is an example of the excessive imbalance of power between employers and employees, where the employee takes the full risk and also takes the full blow. The Left Party is in favour of the demand from the Work Permit Holders Association, among other things, to get an overall assessment of the matter so that this kind of injustice can be avoided. We believe that this is one of the things that the government needs to resolve by putting proposals on the table of Parliament at a later stage. It should be an overall solution that corrects the imbalance of power that exists. From the perspective of the Left Party, what needs to be done to protect overseas workers from exploitation is actually quite simple. First, the employer must be obliged to attach a binding contract of employment to an application for a work permit. That way we will avoid situations where labour is lured here under false pretences, and it will be possible for unions to act in the event of a breach of contract. Secondly, employees who come forward and expose irregularities in the employer should be allowed to stay in Sweden for the permit period out so that they are not linked only to the individual employer. This would cause workers to dare to tell us about misdemeanours without themselves being punished. Thirdly, employers who exploit undocumented workers or people with permits must be liable for damages. The current sanctions are not at all proportionate to the profits that employers can actually make by systematically exploiting labour. Fourthly, careful checks on employers must be carried out both before and after authorisation. Some good changes and progress have been made, but it is important that the relevant authorities have both the resources and the means to follow up such control. There is still much to be done, as pointed out in the Swedish National Audit Office's report. But, on the whole, it has to be done in a whole. It must be done carefully, so that we do not have to make these constant changes, which ultimately affect workers once again, so that they are in an even more difficult situation in the Swedish labour market. It's not supposed to be like that. With this, Madam President, I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 1.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-472	Madam President, I would like As I have said earlier in this speaker's chair in a similar debate on labour immigration, there is no lack of problems and challenges in Swedish migration policy. It is about shadow societies that are growing, processing times that are far too long, costs that have run out in recent years and a situation where unaccompanied children are mixed up in housing together with adult men. But what is not a problem is that people come to Sweden who enter the labour market, have arranged terms of employment and pay taxes. On the contrary, all of this makes Sweden a richer and better country to live in. During the first term of office, the Alliance carried out an important reform to strengthen the conditions for labour migration. It has benefited Sweden. It made it easier for people to come here to Sweden and work, just as Finns, Yugoslavians and Greeks for many decades had done. You can continue with even more historical anecdotes about this, but it has already been done here, so I wasn't going to do it. However, looking at the situation today, it is clear that labour migration is important not least in many of the sectors that are very important for our country's competitiveness. I am thinking, for example, of the Swedish gaming envy and the music service Spotify, which is a world success, but also of many smaller startups, companies whose name we may not have remembered today but which will be tomorrow's great Swedish success. If you back up the band for a little bit you can see that it is really fantastic that our country, which is quite isolated at the top of Europe and has very many winter days, has such a strong appeal to people who can choose the whole world as their field of work. They still choose to knock down their bopostes in Stockholm, Gothenburg or elsewhere in Sweden instead of in Los Angeles or New York. The other side of the coin is that there should of course be order and order in the labour market. It should not be High Chaparall, but of course it should be demanded that it be done in a reasonable and orderly manner. No man thinks I want to see other people exploited or harmed. Having said that, Madam President, there is a major problem here. For it is the case that all the regulations must be maintained, and what we have today does not work in the way that it was intended. We have a situation in which highly educated, coveted and well-behaved workers who have worked here for a long time and pay taxes are still expelled, in many cases only because of minor errors that have occurred a long time ago. It is not worthy of a modern knowledge nation like ours. Here we stand now with a situation that goes straight across with the ambition to make Sweden a modern knowledge nation open to new ideas and growth. One noted case is the programmer Tayyab Shabab from Pakistan, but there are many more who, like him, have been faced with expulsion decisions. And it has continued – during last autumn, throughout the spring and now during the early summer. The Alliance has taken several initiatives to bring about a change in the regulatory framework. Already in autumn 2014, the Alliance exercised to guard labour migration to Sweden and shorten the processing times that have grown even more since then. The following year, a joint motion was presented that aimed at the Government's eagerness to put unnecessary hassle on the conditions for labour migration. Unfortunately, it was rejected. Last autumn, a new alliance motion for a 30-day guarantee was presented at the complete application. It was also highlighted that the regulatory framework should be such that a labour immigrants are not expelled because of rigid and bureaucratic rules, such as having been employed through a recruitment channel of a certain size and scope. But that motion was also rejected. Nothing happened for a long time. At the same time, the problems grew more and more. That is why the Alliance took a fourth initiative in the östen, a committee initiative, in order to get the government to do what should have already been done, namely to find a solution to the problem. The initiative won a very broad majority. In fact, the whole committee supported it, and it was of course very gratifying to have a consensus on such an important issue. At the same time, expectations were created. But in practice, very little happened. The proposals presented by an inquiry before Christmas were completely inadequate. While the government in practice ignored the announcement, the problems have continued to grow – day by day, week by week. Written questions and numerous interpellation debates also seem to have had little effect. This national audit report gave a new opportunity to exercise on this important issue. It is gratifying that there is a majority in the committee to make it easy to work and do the right thing in Sweden. This requires that neither rigid rules nor unnecessary villages hinder it. Instead, what we in the Alliance call an overall assessment is needed, that is to say that minor mistakes should not automatically lead to expulsion. There must be some flexibility. Madam President, I would like This formulation of overall assessment is the key to bringing about a real change. That is what is now needed to save the many people, not least in the IT sector, who are still under threat of expulsion. It is now only to be hoped that the government will take on board this fifth motion in order, which indicates that a change must be made. Nevertheless, I can only regret that the Social Democrats and the Green Party, together with the Left Party, have once again chosen to reject the motion. I ask the same question now as I did last time in this debate: how many more valued and hardworking taxpayers will have to be expelled from Sweden before you realise that there is an urgent need to find a solution to the problem?
i-2642284f8e5ba394-486	Madam President, I would like Usman has lived in Sweden for a little over seven years. During the first year he studied at the University of Borås, where he took a master's degree in computer science. Before that he had graduated from a university in Pakistan and worked for several years as an IT technician. After his master's degree he quickly got a job as a newspaper messenger, a job he did on a part-time basis while learning better Swedish and at the same time looking for a job based on his skills. After a little less than a year, he also got such a job. He is now head of an IT company headquartered here in Stockholm. His wife just finished her high school education, and his two children go to school here. The family speaks fluently Swedish and is happy in the apartment that it recently moved into. In the past year, Usman has followed a number of friends and acquaintances in their struggle to stay in Sweden, people who, like himself, have built their lives here in the country. He has spent time trying to understand what is happening, and for every new expulsion decision his concern has grown. A few weeks ago, Usman himself submitted his application for a renewed residence permit to the Finnish Immigration Service. But he does not know what the miscalculation that his employer made when working as a newspaper messenger will lead to for him and his family. He does not know whether the Migration Board will accept the compensation he received when it was discovered. And he does not know if he too will receive a letter saying: You will be given a four-week deadline to leave the country. I've met so many people lately who are in the same situation as Usman. It is very easy to feel with them. But this is essentially not a matter of compassion. Sweden needs these people as much, if not more, than they need Sweden. This is what it is all about. I have been sitting with managers who have described how they have had to close down businesses and dismiss employees, because key people have been expelled. It has been about chefs, software developers, sellers and importers. Others have described how people with highly sought-after skills, who have travelled around the world to find, manage to attract and then get here, have now received expulsion decisions or have already had to leave the country. They do not know whether the company will be able to do this, whether the company will survive at all. Many testify to the increasing difficulty of recruiting skills abroad, as rumours of this have begun to spread throughout the world. It can't go on. Sweden cannot afford this. Changes that end the excessive expulsions must be implemented. People who support themselves should not be expelled because of small mistakes. This cannot continue. A halting law must be introduced quickly to protect the labour immigrants who already exist in Sweden. In addition, the conditions for Swedish labour migration must generally be improved. Employers should be able to employ easily the workforce they need. Last autumn, a united parliament called on the government to review and improve labour immigration rules. I thought this announcement was quite clear. It is now over six months ago, and the government has barely lifted a finger. The inability to deal quickly with this issue is directly harmful. The proposal that has been talked about here and that is now before the Law Council, that minor mistakes should not have to lead to expulsion if the employer has corrected it before it reaches the Migration Board, is far from sufficient. It is insufficient because the rules are so complicated that without the Migration Agency it is quite difficult to figure out what is actually right and wrong. It is also insufficient because many things simply cannot be compensated afterwards. It may be that you have had the wrong insurance, that you have worked during the holiday or that you have changed employers before the error was discovered, which is very common. There are many more examples. What is really needed is an opportunity for the Migration Agency to make an overall assessment. In this way, for example, administrators could decide that 32 crowns too little a single month would not have to lead to expulsion if everything else in the case looked right. It is therefore gratifying that we now have a majority in the Parliament that supports this proposal. That's great. We have had majorities in Parliament in the past who have made decisions on this, but the government has not listened. From our side, therefore, we assume that the government is now responding to Parliament's request and that this proposal for an overall assessment will be added to the bill that has been promised soon. It would probably be sufficient for the law to change the order that the expulsion should be carried out. However, if the government refuses to comply with the majority decision, we in the Center Party will press for such a change of law to be prepared here in Parliament. We are prepared to take this step. There is no time to wait on this issue. This is not about a few individuals, it is about the future of Sweden as a whole. Several large and important growth companies are now beginning to review the opportunities to move their businesses to other countries with better conditions. That's what it looks like. We can't let that happen. Openness to labour migration is a strong asset for Sweden, and we must ensure that it is protected. I support the committee's proposal and refer to the special opinion of the Centre Party.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-496	Madam President, I would like In fact, one might ask whether what we are discussing is essentially a question of migration policy. The fact that people come to Sweden and work should also be seen in the light of industrial policy. This is about our companies being able to find competent staff. If this staff is not available in Sweden, you can recruit employees from other countries. We are part of the globalised reality in which we live. Sweden is not an isolated island in the world in which we live now. Besides, we've never been. But when we are even more connected, as it is called these days, it is clear that the possibility of finding skilled outside workers is greater than before. It is also more important than before, as competition is tougher now. Madam President, I would like Moreover, this is, of course, an important issue for the individual. If you are good at a particular job and want to go to another country and work there and take advantage of the opportunities available in today's global labour market, it is clear that it is important that the possibility of labour immigrants exists. Of course, people should not be exploited. It is clear that if people come to Sweden to work and get fake jobs or rogue employers, it is of course completely unreasonable. Madam President, I would like What this issue is now about is the fact that we have legislation that does not really follow, it seems. The legislation is designed in such a way that the starting point of the legislator's desire to get to cheaters and rogue employers almost gets a list, which means that individuals who have come to Sweden to work here – skilled people not least within our start-up companies, technology companies and IT companies – are at risk of being expelled because of rather trivial misdemeanours that employers, when they find out about it, want to correct. It may even be that a previous employer has made the mistake. It is not reasonable that we have companies that recruit outside workers and then, when they are going to extend work permits, discover some minor error to which they correct, they are still in danger of being expelled. Now there is once again a majority in Parliament to press the government on this issue. But the government does too little, and it takes too long. This is worrying, because it means that we lose competitiveness and that important and talented companies in Sweden cannot really rely on how our authorities work. These are very long processing times, you do not know whether residence permits and work permits can be renewed and so on. This is very problematic. From our side in the Alliance we have been crystal clear all the time: We think that labour migration is important for Sweden and that there should be an overall assessment and a proportionality assessment in these cases. The cases that we have seen highlighted in the media show very clearly that it is clear that this was not the intention of the legislation that we now have. Then you have to look at how the law can be changed. The alternative is that this can be changed through practice, but we have not seen that that has happened. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say one more thing about this. If we have legislation in Sweden that aims to strengthen our growth and give people the opportunity to come to Sweden to work, it is very surprising that the government is so slow in creating a reasonable framework for labour immigration. At the same time, it is very quick to change the rules, so that people who have received rejection decisions from Sweden should still be able to stay in the country and, for example, go to upper secondary school here, even though they are well over 20 years old. Madam President, I would like I really must question this order of priority on the part of the government. This is something that affects Sweden's economy and growth to a great extent. This affects our companies, especially our very talented technology companies, who are at the forefront of digitalisation but feel that they cannot get competent staff here and that the staff they get here are expelled. When they really are screaming for some kind of change to take place, one is extremely slow on the part of the government, which I very much regret. You can also note that I have not spent all my registered speaking time.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-507	Madam President, I would like Today we have been able to read in Dagens Nyheter about how the number of areas that police rate as particularly vulnerable has increased significantly over the past two years. We also read all too often about the recent decline in the number of offences solved by the police and how far too many police officers choose to end up in the police profession. All these are major problems facing Swedish society. Other major problems that Swedish politics has to deal with right now are the long-term negative development of knowledge among students in Swedish schools, that the municipal tax rates are too high and risk, or are expected, to be increased quite sharply in the future and that our defence capabilities are too poor in the restless world situation. In the area of migration and integration policy, too, we face major problems. These include, for example, the excessive length of processing times, asylum seekers who feel threatened and insecure in their asylum homes, large differences in value between people from other parts of the world and how we live in Sweden and, not least, the fact that the average time of establishment in the Swedish labour market is far too long. These are examples of the major problems that Swedish society is facing today, where political momentum is needed in order for development to be guided in the right direction. What cannot, however, be counted among the same categories of social problems is that we have too much access to highly skilled labour, that we have too many skilled programmers or that we have too many innovative companies growing. But despite this: The government does not want to or does not come to the fore when it comes to enabling serious people from other countries with jobs in Sweden, and who pay taxes in Sweden, to stay here and contribute both to jobs and entrepreneurship as well as to the development of Swedish welfare. Madam President, I would like In recent years we have had to follow too many tragic cases in the media, where often highly educated people from other parts of the world who have worked and worked in Sweden have been denied extension of their work permits due to minor errors committed or sheer absurdities. We have heard about several of these cases earlier in the debate. Of course, this has to stop. Despite several calls from the Alliance's parties, the government has delayed and only proposed measures that are insufficient to meet the problems. The Alliance has therefore re-tabled a joint motion which calls for the introduction of an overall assessment rule. The aim is that small mistakes of serious companies and employers should not lead to the expulsion of people who work, support themselves and pay taxes in Sweden. A majority in Parliament's Social Security Committee has also supported the motion, and we assume that the government will now comply with this call and produce the necessary legislation – reasonably those that can enter into force before the end of this year. Sweden needs more companies that start, grow and hire. That our well-being should be able to remain strong in the longer term is also conditional upon this very thing. At the same time, we know that the international competitiveness of our country is based on the success of our companies in recruiting and retaining adequate labour. From this point of view, the current system is quite unreasonable. We have heard here in the debate from the representatives of the government parties that there is a lot of focus on abuse of the labour immigration acquis. There is no disagreement between the government side and the Alliance. However, when it comes to rigid rules and unnecessary bureaucracy that hinders labour immigration, this must be brought to an end. I therefore support the committee's position and hope that it will win the approval of Parliament on Wednesday. Now this issue needs to be resolved so that the government and all of us can focus on the major societal problems facing Sweden.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-518	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Aron Modig, for a good speech. I was just going to say at the end of the debate that there is not only agreement on the need to tackle the exploitation of people who are migrant workers, but I think there is also agreement that we need to have a system that works. People should not be rejected because of small shortcomings and errors and mistakes made by employers, often a long time ago. I feel it is important to remind you that the regulatory framework with which we now have problems and which leads to people being rejected because of small errors, which we all think are unreasonable reasons here, was developed by the previous alliance government together with the Green Party. So it was your party, your parties and my party that did it. We now all need to see together how we can deal with this. The reason that legislation takes time is not that there is no ambition on the part of the government to create a regulatory framework in which we ensure that people are not rejected because of mere absurdities. The reason is that legislation takes quite a long time. However, I think it is positive that everyone here is pushing for us to get to grips with this. I also think it is a statement of strength at all for the system we have for labour immigration in Sweden that it is something that engages and that there is a relatively large consensus in terms of how it should work – and this in a way that I do not think existed five years ago.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-522	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Ferm, for comments! With regard to the introduction of the acquis, it is no secret which parties pushed this through here in Parliament. That is not what we are discussing today either. Even on the side of the Christian Democrats and the Alliance parties, we see that this has clearly gone mad or been applied in a way that would not have been envisaged. The question we are facing here today and for too long is that we need to correct this. Now it is the case that since September October 2014 it is not the alliance parties that are in the government, but it is Maria Ferms's party, the Environmental Party, and the Social Democrats. It is these two parties that must have the task of remedying this. We in the Alliance have pushed for this. I do not know how many motions this is about; we heard about five earlier in the debate. So we have proposed measures to correct minor errors afterwards. We want to see an overall assessment. But we are now in mid-June 2017, and we are still far from a solution to the situation. I, too, would like us not to have this debate, but now the situation is as it is. Then we'll work on it. As I said in my speech, I hope that the government will now take on board the supposed announcement by the Social Security Committee and the Parliament and will correct this properly.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-527	Madam President, I would like We know that legislative work takes time. We have been in agreement many times on these issues. Last time, the whole committee agreed that changes were needed. It was last autumn when we had a united social security committee, including the government parties, who said that we need to look at this and make changes. But it is clear that legislation is something that often takes time. It can be particularly frustrating when you do not directly work with legislation, but also when you do. I just think it's important that it gets in place as soon as possible. I also think it is positive that you are addressing the issues in this way and that you are pushing. I think that's good. The debate in the last parliamentary term was far too one-sided on problems and abuses within the system. It was too little about the people affected and who are being exploited and about the opportunities offered by labour immigration. I believe that the debate that took place at that time may be one reason why the measures were too one-sided and affected individuals. As always when issues of migration are discussed, it is important that the debate does not run in any direction. You should go through it and see which systems you can find that last over time – systems that are good for the individuals and that actually work. It is positive that you are pushing for an open labour migration. This is something that is important for the Green Party and something that we have constantly protected, so I hope that we can continue in that way.
i-2642284f8e5ba394-532	Madam President, I would like I note that in this debate we have not heard any of the government parties take up the alliance parties' proposals to introduce an overall assessment. Nor have we heard the government parties report on the implementation of such an overall assessment. There are many words coming from the government parties – it has been in several debates now – but it remains to be seen what results come out of this. Like Maria Ferm, I am well aware that legislative work takes time. That is precisely why we need to be out in good time and to the greatest extent possible the situations that arise. We have heard nothing today about overall assessment or about such an application of the rules. The question is how long we have to wait to get this in place, if it is the case that the government parties support it, which it has not seemed as in this debate.
