i-80557fd71d428056-1	Mr President, I would like to Jeff Ahl has asked me what I and the government intend to do to remedy the developments that we see in Swedish healthcare. I assume Jeff Ahl refers to the information from an article published by the hospital doctor. I would like to begin by emphasising that the article does not deal with a quarter of all deaths in healthcare. The medical doctor's examination of the lex Maria reported deaths that came to the Health and Care Inspection last year shows that the lack of a place of care, staff shortages or extreme workload represented a quarter of the lex Maria reported deaths, i.e. 13 deaths. However, any death that could have been avoided if adequate care measures were taken is very serious. It is essential that the course of events is investigated in accordance with what is stated in the Patient Safety Act in order to minimise the risk of the same thing happening again. At the same time, there is no evidence of an increase in the number of serious health injuries. Harmful effects decreased at national level between 2013 and 2016. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has launched in 2017 a comprehensive support for healthcare in the area of patient safety, which the agency has had the Government's mission to develop. There is comprehensive information on the prevention of health injuries. The total support has been developed in collaboration with several authorities and Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils. Lack of access to important occupational groups, especially specialist nurses, and other skills supply problems in health care make a strong contribution to closed care places. The Government has taken a number of measures linked to the provision of health care skills. A special professional billion has been set aside, of which 300 million has been earmarked for 2017 in order to give more nurses the opportunity to become specialist nurses. In addition to this, the number of training places for nurses, specialist nurses and midwives has been increased, the resources for validation of foreign health education at the National Board of Health has been greatly strengthened and a number of government assignments have been given in this area. In 2017, for example, the Government has given the National Board of Health and Welfare a mandate on skills provision and patient safety. The Authority shall carry out a mapping, current situation and analysis of how shortcomings in skills provision and staffing may affect the risk of health injuries in healthcare. The Government has also announced an annual investment of SEK 2 billion in health care personnel, which may be used, among other things, to offer skills development, increase staffing and develop ways of working for healthcare professionals to remain in work. Employers have an important responsibility for ensuring that the health care work environment and working conditions make it attractive for staff to become employees and remain in care. Gradually addressing skills supply problems in healthcare also creates the conditions for fewer care places to be closed. It is also important that a patient be discharged from the closed care as soon as possible after the treating doctor has determined that the patient is ready to discharge. Today, a large number of care places are maintained by clear-cut patients. A new law on cooperation in the discharge from closed healthcare will enter into force on 1 January 2018. Among other things, the Act provides for a clearer process of discharge, including rules on early planning prior to discharge and on collaboration between county councils and municipalities. The new law is deemed to provide good conditions for reducing the amount of care places occupied by clear patients. In addition, the Government has increased the general state grants for the county councils by billions from 2017, which provides the conditions for the county councils to prioritise resources to which they estimate the needs to be greatest. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that the operational responsibility for healthcare – and for solving emergency care situations – rests with the county councils. I believe that the government is taking strong measures to increase the conditions for county councils to achieve improved skills provision and more open care places where it is needed.
i-80557fd71d428056-14	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats are the party that wants to restore the secure folk home – a folk home where everyone regardless of financial conditions is guaranteed a good welfare and a health care that works. Today we have a publicly funded healthcare system that is increasingly overloaded. Those who work in our hospitals are making a huge contribution, I would like to point out. Without their toil, it would have been even worse. However, fewer and fewer of these everyday heroes can remain in health care. That responsibility falls on the current government and previous governments. The reason we have the situation we have is quite simple. Political and economic priorities have been directed towards mass immigration and towards the EU, while welfare and health care have been held back. The ideological and political struggle is not today, as before in Sweden, between an economic right and an economic left. The ideological and political battle is today between nationalists, who want to put the country's resources on their own population, and globalists, who want to spend resources on overpaid EU bureaucrats and on adult men who have come here to use our generous benefit systems. Our feminist government would rather spend money and effort on helping adult men without grounds of asylum than helping our old grandmother or grandmother who has been involved in building this country. If our grandmother or grandmother goes to health care today, she risks dying as a result of the overload we see. Mr President, I would like to Of the 55 lex Maria cases that the hospital doctor has been through, one in four deaths, as the minister has mentioned, result from the overloading of health care. This means that we have at least one death – there are probably more than the reported – per month that could have been avoided if the healthcare system had received the necessary resources. Health care places have declined dramatically in Sweden throughout the 1990s and 2000s, and both bourgeois and social democratic governments are to blame for the breakdown that we see taking place before our eyes. The government finally added a budget that in some parts approaches the Swedish Democrats' budget, namely a budget that prioritises health care. Unlike the government, the Swedish Democrats have invested both the previous term and the current term in health care. The Social Democrats have therefore panicked. They put forward a budget in which they throw in some welcome efforts, because the policy of the Swedish Democrats has been superior to the government for a long time. Only long-term and stable funding can remedy the health crisis. Only the Swedish Democrats have been consistent in this regard. We have consistently wanted to invest in strengthening welfare, especially health care, while the sossies only do so once the choice approaches. If the Swedish Democrats had ruled by their own majority since 2014, the healthcare sector would have had tens of billions to move around to remedy the runaway crisis. Our budgets have constantly been somewhere between 10 and 20 billion above your spending in the specific area of expenditure for four years. In the previous budget we made, among other things, a targeted salary and health and safety effort for health workers of an additional 22 billion over four years. If the Swedish Democrats had ruled, we would have avoided the migration policy crisis in 2015, which overloaded the systems. To conclude, I want to know whether the government is serious about the bets they are making now or whether it is just bets to win the election 2018.
i-80557fd71d428056-24	Mr President, I would like to Deaths in health care are an important issue. Actually, it's not supposed to happen, because health care is supposed to save lives and improve quality of life. There are no excuses, especially when death can be linked to a shortage of care places, a shortage of staff and a shortage of staff. I think everyone agrees that as far as possible we must avoid deaths in healthcare. The interesting question then is: What do we do about the problem? In many parts of the country, health care is underfunded. Health care is the county council's main responsibility. It is the county councils that charge county tax to fund health care, and it is important that they charge enough tax. The state can help, and the government is now doing so by raising billions in several budgets in a row. You do what you can to help the county councils, but ultimately it is the county councils' mission. In some parts of the country, you probably need to think about it and realize that you need to raise taxes to get more money. Of course, it is also important to organise care properly with the resources available. Unfortunately, there are bad examples, such as when a year ago they procured support stockings for SEK 6,000 each. New examples have now emerged, such as a door change of 1.2 million. These sums may not be so large in themselves, but if you put together the procurements that have not worked, they are the resources that flow out of health care. Instead, you should invest money in the staff. They are the health care's most important resource. There must be enough and the right skills. Wages and the working environment are also crucial. The government does not interfere in wage formation, but by raising billions there are opportunities to hire more and give good wages. Training efforts are also very important, because we have a shortcoming. For a long time there has been a shortage of doctors, but now there is also a shortage of specialist nurses and even nurses. It will be very difficult to meet the needs of care if we do not have the skills we need. Staff also need support to cope with their work situation. The government's efforts are absolutely right to address skills shortages and job shortages. However, it does not happen overnight; we are not turning things around so quickly. But we have to start somewhere, and the government is now starting with strong funding. Of course, there is no excuse for the deaths, but now we have to think constructively. What do we do to avoid more deaths? What do we do to keep the staff from being burned out? We must support the staff and ensure that they have more colleagues. That is why the government has the right direction. I wish that in politics we could agree on certain points. We will not agree on everything; I understand that after the previous speech. But the basis for health care is that there are resources. In the discussion we have about the police and the judiciary, there is a greater consensus that more resources and more staff are needed. It's exactly the same in medical care. The basis for making the business work is that sufficient resources are provided and that they are used in the absolute best way.
i-80557fd71d428056-38	Mr President, I would like to I should like to add to the previous speech that we also need a little seriosity in the debate. I'm being perplexed by the post Jeff Ahl just squeezed out. There wasn't much fact in the post you just did, Jeff Ahl, but you poured out quite a lot of gut feeling. In reality, your party, Jeff Ahl, wants to see a moderate Prime Minister and a moderate-led government with a right-wing budget – just the kind of budget that it had during the last parliamentary term when taxes were reduced by 140 billion, which you were just barking at. The previous government is certainly complicit in the fact that we have a very strained situation in the Swedish health care system. During these years you supported the government, and we had an increasingly alarming staffing crisis that was growing. In addition, it was an almost chronic lack of interest in staff issues in the previous government. It was more about creating financial incentives to do some quick fix in healthcare. What this government has done since day one is to give priority to the structural, necessary changes in health care. Since we took office, for example, we have increased the number of training places in nursing, specialist nursing and midwives training courses by 1 500. The first 250 new midwives go out at the turn of the year. From next year on, we will begin the extension of medical education, which will result in 440 new full-year students in medical education, precisely to take up the gap we see in health care. It is alarming that a Member of Parliament in the Swedish Parliament is engaged in a total and completely unneeded black-painting of the Swedish health care system. Yes, we have problems in Swedish healthcare. We have problems with accessibility and staffing, but few healthcare systems are perfect. Only last week came one of the biggest studies that have been done recently. It was published in The Lancet and shows that Sweden in terms of health outcomes in a variety of categories is number four in the world. This is to be taken into account by healthcare professionals. Despite a partly old-fashioned healthcare system, a low level of primary care and often a tough staff situation, the Swedish healthcare staff deliver world-class results. We should at least be able to say this in this Chamber and take on board some facts. In addition to the SEK 5.5 billion that we will deliver next year and which is the biggest investment in Swedish healthcare in modern times, we have delivered additional resources in the multi-billion-dollar healthcare class. We have increased the general state subsidies by nearly 3 billion so far, plus we have made a lot of specific investments. Of course, you should not have to die of unnecessary health injuries in the Swedish health care system. In fact, over the last three years, 2013 – 2016, the number of healthcare injuries in Sweden has decreased. It would be nice if we could stick to the facts in the debate, Jeff Ahl!
i-80557fd71d428056-50	Mr President, I would like to If the Minister is interested in the facts, I suggest that the Minister read the reports of the National Board of Health and Welfare, which show that care places are decreasing and overcrowding is increasing. It'd be nice. Let's get on with some facts. Last year, your funding for migration was 19.4 billion. Last year, you increased it to 32.5 billion. Last year, the amount allocated to health care was 69.2 billion. The following year, when you increased the funding for migration by 13 billion, you reduced the funding for health care. This is from your own budget, so do not shake your head, Minister! Here are your facts, Annika Strandhäll! But I know that this government is relatively factually resistant, so I guess there is some great explanation. We can take other things. Those who stay illegally in the country receive dental treatment for 50 crowns. It was the previous government that concluded a political agreement with the Green Party that this government then followed up. Which poor pensioners receive dental treatment for SEK 50 in total over a year? Childbirth care does not seem to be needed in Sweden. In several socially controlled counties, health care is reduced. This was seen not least in Sollefteå when BB was closed down. The money in the municipal equalization system, which is mainly intended to support the rural areas that are in need of money for healthcare, among other things, goes to Malmö City – a metropolitan region. Every year, billions go to support the multicultural project in Malmö. During this financial year, Sweden will pay a 39.5 billion to the EU – 39.5 billion to a Europe that is barely functioning, which is actively making it difficult for our farmers and which contributes to wage dumping on the Swedish labour market. I do not understand how these priorities can be chosen, but these are government priorities. In my previous speech, I raised and commended the staff. As the Minister mentioned, quality is good – absolutely – and that is the merit of the staff. That is quite right, but how can the Minister think it is good if we have deaths due to stress and overload? These are two very different things. We'll be very happy about the skills we have. With regard to the migration policy crisis we had, MSB returned with reports of congestion in Swedish healthcare as a result of not taking responsibility. This has repercussions even today. Just look at the billions you have to send to the municipalities to keep their noses above water. This is what the priorities are like. I can only go to my own social democratic council, where the health and care sector has been severely cut. This is the priority of the Social Democrats, the Moderates and everyone else in common. You choose to spend your money on very different things than on the core tasks of the state, county councils and municipalities. We will never cooperate with a party without demanding anything back, and we have been very clear about that. Health care is one of the absolute top priorities for us.
i-80557fd71d428056-62	Mr President, I would like to As Annika Strandhäll said, the Swedish Democrats want a moderate-led government. We saw that there were 140 billion in tax cuts, and that is hardly something that benefits health care. It is also the same at county council level. In Region Skåne, from which I come, we have a government together with the Green Party, but we do not have a majority. The Swedish Democrats are wave champions and choose to stop the necessary tax increases. We have huge problems in healthcare in Skåne, much because it is underfunded. We inherited a deficit from the former bourgeois government, and we find it difficult to overcome it because we cannot raise the tax. We have the lowest county tax in Sweden but not the smallest needs, but we have huge needs. It is a densely populated county council with many people who need care. Yet the Swedish democrats stop the tax increase. Unfortunately, in the long run, this runs the risk of having to lay off staff if it is not possible to resolve it in any way. In the end it is not possible, and then we have raised the tariffs in public transport, which we absolutely do not want. We want people to be able to travel by public transport and choose it as an alternative to car. But it is not possible when you at the same time see that the care is as under pressure as it is. That is why the very difficult priority has had to be given to transferring money from public transport to health care, but that is not enough. Management is now struggling in every way to protect care, especially cancer care, maternity care and those parts, but these are becoming extremely difficult priorities. Therefore, I would have liked the Swedish Democrats not only to have talked about migration all the time. There are, in fact, other issues that are also important. Now there is one specific question: we need more money for health care. I hope we do, for the sake of care.
i-80557fd71d428056-68	Mr President, I would like to It is symptomatic for the Swedish Democrats: it does not matter what important, serious societal challenge they want to discuss with you, but everything lands back in hatred of migration and immigration. It may be important for you to know, Jeff Ahl, if you are interested in welfare issues, that about 25 percent of those who work in the Swedish elderly care today, who take care of our parents and who make sure that our elderly have it good from the start have come to Sweden as a migrant labor force. They have built a life here, educated here, taken a job here, paid taxes here and made personal contributions to Swedish welfare. Much the same is true of the entire health care system. The reality is, Jeff Ahl, that we will not be able to meet our commitments in welfare, school, care and health care in the future unless we are also able to take advantage of the migrants who have come to Sweden. They have come here on the run from terrible wars around the world, where we currently have the largest refugee flows since World War II. Instead of reaching out, working together and trying to find solutions with other countries, Jeff Ahl wants to close the door and that we should isolate ourselves in small Sweden – a country that is totally dependent on exports and free trade with others. Let's get out of the EU. How do you plan to solve the economy then, Jeff Ahl? How do you plan to solve investments in welfare? How do you plan to take care of our old ones and deliver pensions to them, if we smash the entire Swedish economy because we want to deny that we are living in a globalised world? It is not a serious discussion that we stand for here today. I think it's very boring. These are important problems that had merited serious discussion. The healthcare staff had earned a serious debate. During this entire term of office, the Government has invested heavily in the Swedish health care system. We have also talked about our intention to continue making this kind of investment during the next parliamentary term. But you in the Swedish Democrats once again show that you are not a serious option to discuss with. When it comes to talking about your fictitious own budgets, at some point I have stood and debated with your party leader and stated that you would remove more billions than you would add. You would add 8 billion and remove 10 billion. In my head it will be minus 2 billion – not a span to the healthcare staff or to the development of the Swedish healthcare system. No, Jeff Ahl, Sweden's citizens and those who want to contribute to Sweden in the future deserve a serious debate on these issues, but you don't seem to have the ability to deliver that. With regard to maternity care, which you stood here arguing about just now, during this term the government has made the greatest effort on maternity care in modern times. We shot at 650 million last year, and we are shooting at another 1 billion in the next year, which will also have to go to staff, to open up care places, to develop aftercare and to create security for the parents who are going to give birth in Swedish maternity care. I know we have challenges, but a little nuance in the debate is what I think many Swedes would like to see today – a little seriosity and not only screaming about crisis and disaster all the time, but also discussing with seriosity what the solutions look like to the societal problems that we as politicians have a responsibility to address.
i-80557fd71d428056-78	Mr President, I would like to Many people who work in health care are of foreign origin. That is quite right, but many Swedes who work in healthcare have moved away from this country because their wages and working environment have been too bad. They've chosen to move out of here. I know very well that there are many people with immigrant backgrounds in healthcare. Many of them are members of the party in which I am a member and which is called the Swedish Democrats. I often meet them at different party events. They have exactly the same idea of what it looks like in Swedish healthcare as I do, so I do not really understand where the Minister wants to come up with that discussion. You say that I am only talking about migration, Annika Strandhäll, but now I have taken the EU as another example. Billions are being poured into overpaid foreign EU bureaucrats instead of investing in them where they are needed, namely in Swedish health care and what you also mentioned: defence, the rule of law and so on. In essence, you have been in charge of this country since the 1990s and 2000s, and yet it has become consistently worse. You avoided the fact that you cut down on health care in your own state budget. I just showed you the numbers, but you didn't even comment on that. It's quite interesting. You can either increase the tax a great deal, or you make sure you save where you can – for example, in the areas of migration, the EU and other things. If you want, you can do it. Then you can also spend money on health care, on defence and on the rule of law without overestimating the countryside as this government does. In addition to cutting back on rural health care, where many Social Democrats rule, this government will also impose penalties on all those living in rural areas if they drive. Many people who live there depend on a car, as there is no public transport. It was also mentioned here in the discussion. You've been in charge, and we've seen the results. 2018 is a new choice. The Swedish Democrats have always been the party that has budgeted the most for welfare in general and for health care in particular.
i-80557fd71d428056-84	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that Jeff Ahl was not particularly interested in discussing the challenges of Swedish healthcare, but Jeff Ahl was interested in discussing migration, infrastructure, defence policy or various other things that fall into the populist agenda of the Swedish Democrats. Ideally it should happen without facts, because it is difficult when discussing facts. If you are to have a serious discussion on the basis of facts, a great many of the arguments that Jeff Ahl stands here and lists. We have, together with several other parties in the Swedish Parliament, made a huge effort on the defence during this term of office to strengthen the defence in a new era with new challenges. Only last week, we presented the biggest investment in health care in modern times, in addition to the efforts we have already made in the health care sector to increase general government grants. Healthcare faces major and important challenges. It is a big transition from a rather hospital-heavy primary care to a time where there are more and more elderly in Sweden and where there are more and more chronologists. We have a technological development that goes in one direction, and we have a drug development that goes in one direction. This will impose new demands on the Swedish health care system. That is why we have been working on this challenge throughout this term together with our primary health investigator, who has laid out a map of how Swedish healthcare needs and needs to be changed and what will be required in the form of investment by serious politicians in order to be able to respond to citizens' needs in the future. As far as European bureaucrats are concerned, Jeff Ahl, I am, frankly, just tired because this is all about pure populism. Sweden today lives very much on free trade and exports, and it is absolutely essential that we maintain our membership of the European Union.
i-80557fd71d428056-89	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the quality of the assessments underlying sickness benefit is clarified and improved. When I took office as Minister of Social Security in autumn 2014, my absence from work had risen sharply since 2010. One important factor behind this development was that the quality of the Social Insurance Agency's assessments at the various time limits in the so-called rehabilitation chain had been allowed to fall. The broad programme of measures decided by the Government in September 2015 therefore included strengthening Försäkringskassan's management. The Government also contributed SEK 250 million to Försäkringskassan for this work. We can now see that Försäkringskassan's handling has improved. More assessments are made at the right time. The rise in sick leave has also been broken and is now beginning to decrease as a result of the action programme. As can be seen from the report from the Social Insurance Inspection, referred to by Lotta Finstorp, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency needs to improve its handling further. This applies mainly to the possibility of returning to work with ordinary employers at day 91 in the rehabilitation chain. In its response to the report, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has stated that the agency is systematically working to develop its investigations and assessments. I am particularly concerned that sick people should not be left alone but receive good support in order to be able to return to health and work. The Government has therefore invested in rehabilitation coordinators within the healthcare sector, but also in several measures to increase support for the individual. These include proposals to clarify employers' responsibility for rehabilitation. Försäkringskassan also has an important role in providing support to the individual in the sick leave process by coordinating its various actors and identifying needs for rehabilitation. I will continue to follow the work of the Social Insurance Agency on this issue.
i-80557fd71d428056-94	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. Social security is an important part of Swedish welfare, not least because one third of the state's budget consists of health insurance. For the individual and for the employer, insurance must be legitimate, reliable and predictable. The levels of sickness insurance must be balanced so that incentives for the work line are maintained while the sick person receives a safe sickness benefit. It is desirable that the structure of health insurance has long-term sustainability over time, regardless of who has the political responsibility in Sweden. Long-term sustainable and reliable insurance over time was the mission that we received in the parliamentary social security inquiry. I would like to hear a little bit about what is happening to the proposals that are there, the proposals that are, so to speak, still there. I welcome the fact that the government has set a target for the sickness benefit rate. That is a good thing, and it gives a clear signal to authorities, employers and others to steer towards a set goal. When I look at the statistics I also see that the sickness benefit rate decreases in all counties and among men and women. But there are counties that stand out– there are actually quite a few – and that have a very long journey left to achieve this goal. The curve of the proportion of cases of illness that is longer than a year shows an unbroken trend. It is worrying that they remain in the sickness benefit system. The rehabilitation chain was introduced in 2008. According to it, Försäkringskassan must assess the right to sickness benefit after 90 and 180 days of sick leave. The purpose of introducing this rehabilitation chain in health insurance was to remedy the inaction that characterised the sick leave process before 2008. These fixed deadlines require active management, good investigations, planning, but also participation of all those involved. It is, of course, about the individual but also about the employer in the case that you have a job that you can go back to. It is also about Försäkringskassan, Arbetsförmedlingen and health care. I have read a report from the ISF, which has reviewed the sick leave process in many reports. In particular, this report was interesting as the sick leave process was reviewed in 2011 by ISF. This examination showed, for example, shortcomings in the procedure. What caused me great concern was that many of these shortcomings remain. However, it is six years ago that the report was produced before the last one, and it has not been solved, for example, with quality problems. It is very important that you have a legally secure process and that the individual can also make demands at the different time limits, so that you get the right rehabilitation. The fact that these deadlines exist in rehabilitation also means that, as an individual, you can expect to have all the expertise available to get well and to be able to get back to work. Contact with the employer is extremely important. In ISF's report, it appears that the Social Insurance Agency is in contact with the employer in only 50% of the cases that have been looked at, i.e. from day 181. Försäkringskassan has not contacted Arbetsförmedlingen in any of the matters they have looked at. The assessment to be made is whether the insured person has a capacity to work in relation to normal jobs in the labour market. Therefore, in my view, a contact with the Employment Service should be self-evident.
i-80557fd71d428056-101	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lotta Finstorp for this interpellation. I am so pleased that we see that we are in control of sick leave. To some extent, inflows into health insurance are also decreasing. More trials are carried out at the 90- and 180-day limits than were carried out in 2010-2014. At the same time, I would like to admit that I am concerned, for the reasons also stated in the ISF report. I usually say that the really big remaining problem to create security and a good and legally secure flow through the rehabilitation chain is collaboration between the different actors. It has to work much better. I would like to raise a number of points, and then I will be happy to come back to that in later speeches. Among other things, this is about the first occasion when a person is at risk of sick leave or getting sick leave – that they receive active support right from the start. For example, it is about getting help from a rehab coordinator, which is something we have taken further after the previous government and is now implementing throughout primary care in Sweden. It is a support for the individual, but also for the doctors and the Social Insurance Agency, in creating the dialogue. I am also concerned about signals at the 90-day limit that there are employers who feel that they are not involved in the way they would like. As a result, the possibilities for returning to work in the existing workplace may not be exhausted. I would like to say that I – and we have highlighted this in the regulatory letter to Försäkringskassan, for example, this year – are concerned about the handover that sometimes needs to take place at the 180-day limit between, for example, Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen. There I get many signals that there are people falling between the chairs, and that is simply not acceptable. This was also the reason why the Government clarified the assignment to both Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen in the regulatory letters at the end of the year. The authorities will return to the government with how they intend to improve the interaction, and we also have that issue alive in the government dialogues we have. I usually make it clear that the absolute best thing is if you can prevent people from getting sick from their work, but if people get sick they should get quick action. That is why we are strengthening the legislation from next year on. If a sick leave is expected to exceed 30 days, employers and employees will jointly, within that period of time, develop a plan for a possible return to work – precisely because we know that anyone entering a longer period of sick leave risks being stuck for a longer period of time. I would therefore like to come back to this in later speeches, but I would like to say that Lotta Finstorp – just like ISF – has put her finger on something that we need to develop further.
i-80557fd71d428056-108	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister. It feels good that we have a common understanding of the problem and share the concern. However, even though it does not seem hopeless, it is rather troubling that, still after six years, this has not been resolved. I think that the quality deficiencies and the lack of direct and immediate interaction with the authorities, employers and so on are the major problem. The quality deficiencies mentioned in the ISF report also concern the way in which investigations are carried out. There are quality deficiencies in this. The individual is left out when there is no cooperation and the investigations are not of good quality. Many people both contact the Minister and us MPs that they feel left out when they are not heard or not getting right from the situation they are in. The long sick leave has increased considerably, and I think that Försäkringskassan's short analyses are good to take on board. 2017:2 shows that the longer the time you are away the chance to get back to work decreases. It is quite obvious; the threshold is getting higher. If you have also felt bad for a long time, it will be tough to come back when you have been away for a long time. I don't want to say what we said! But that was exactly the fear we had when the government removed the longer deadline. We thought that the deadline was needed, above all, from an individual perspective, in order for the individual to be able to make demands through that deadline to get the help he is actually entitled to. What we are seeing now is that the really long cases of illness are increasing worryingly. I would like to hear a little bit about how the Minister views and analyses the reason why the long sick leave has increased. The number of cases of illness longer than a year is almost 7,000 more than at the same time last year – 7 000 more people. I'd like to hear a little bit about how the minister views it. There is, of course, a programme of measures designed to achieve the objective, but with the long sick leave, perhaps it is something that surprises you or that concerns you. After all, a well-functioning sick leave process requires all the actors involved to assume their responsibilities and that everyone is involved and given the right information, for example. Many times employers say that medical certificates are, as someone put it, anorexic. There is so little information in a medical certificate that the employer does not know how to help Lisa or Kalle. Perhaps it is a smaller employer who is not used to dealing with this. It's not always you can even understand a medical certificate, and if there's too little information it gets even harder. If you do not have support from Försäkringskassan, for example, to read between the lines what it really means, it becomes even more difficult. The conditions for taking responsibility must be provided. The Minister's reply contains a proposal to clarify the responsibility of employers for rehabilitation, but employers must be given the opportunity to take that responsibility.
i-80557fd71d428056-114	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the post, Lotta Finstorp! In part we do the same analyses, and in part we may not do the same analyses. We had a situation in autumn 2014 where sick leave had increased quite substantially between 2010 and 2014. During the same time period, nearly one hundred thousand had come into contact with the distant time limit and were secured. Then there were people who came back into the insurance again – for both the second and the third time. That's not a good order. It was not a good order to have an insurance policy where sick leave increases, where costs increase and where people spin around in a system, comes in as new cases of illness and thus makes statistics and follow-up to the needs of these people in a way more difficult. Between 2010 and 2014, there was also a decline of almost 50% in the number of trials at 90- and 180-day limits. In the Government's autumn 2015 action programme, an important part for the government was firstly to improve the quality of assessments and secondly that more people would have an assessment. We also paid 250 million for this to Försäkringskassan, and more are being tested today. However, I would like to say that what is happening many times today is that the right to compensation is being examined to a greater extent than is being tested for the possibility of a return to work. I think that the ISF makes an excellent point about this in its report and that it is still a shortcoming. It is also an issue to which I am drawn attention, that is to say that we need to further develop the quality of the Social Insurance Agency's coordination responsibility at the 90-day limit. I share Lotta Finstorp's input that Försäkringskassan needs to be aware that you have continued quality deficiencies, and even Försäkringskassan sees and says this when we have government dialogue. A lot of resources are also being invested in addressing these quality deficiencies, and this is long-term work. In this situation, when the test of entitlement to compensation is being tightened up, the lack of presence in the dialogue with the employer may have worsened to a greater extent. We need to fix that. This also applies to the dialogue between Försäkringskassan and health care. Among other things, I see that the rather powerful expansion of rehabilitation coordinators in primary care has a very important role to play. I visited Hässelby health centre quite recently and met with the rehabilitation coordinator and management, who told me that 43 out of 50 health centres in Stockholm now have a rehabilitation coordinator. This is a very good sign that things can happen earlier in the illness. I fully understand, on the basis of my responsibility, that further measures may be needed to strengthen the quality of the rehabilitation chain, and I am prepared to take these measures. I think it might work even better. I'm convinced of that. In particular, it is important for the benefit of the individual to strengthen the individual's right to influence in this process in order to receive support for returning to work. What I am talking about when it comes to the employer's rehabilitation responsibility is the legislative change that will come into effect next year. There, we provide funds to the employer to enable the employer to take in expertise and, together with the employee, be able to draw up a plan early on and design support for the employee to come back again.
i-80557fd71d428056-120	Mr President, I would like to The fact that the individual sits down physically at the same table as the employer, Försäkringskassan, the health care service and perhaps the Employment Service – if you are at that stage – I think is extremely important. Long-term sick leave must also be linked to queues in health care. I saw statistics showing that sick leave can be prolonged because there is no doctor who can investigate whether the individual has the capacity to work. This applies not only to one case, but to quite a few people. It's all connected. I think it is extremely important to support employers. I'm also a little proud of the rehab coordinators. This began as a Finsam project in Sörmland and was very successful. It's very interesting that it's now all over the country. It is absolutely right to work in this way. The individual really gets into the center, and you meet physically, so I'm actually a little proud of this. As far as the queues in health care are concerned, everything is connected. If you are to be able to shorten the long periods of sick leave, you must have a very close personal contact, and then it is the Social Insurance Agency that is responsible for the coordination. ISF identifies a number of improvement areas. Work on basic investigations needs to be developed. If you do not have good quality in the investigation from the beginning, this will follow if the illness is prolonged. ISF showed itself in a previous report that it is doubtful whether early intervention is good or not, but I believe that sick leave periods can be shortened by early intervention and high quality of investigations.
i-80557fd71d428056-125	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for your post! It was very exciting to hear that the rehab coordinators started as a Finsam project. I'm also something of a buzzer for Finsam when it comes to finding new, smart solutions to certain societal problems, so it was fun to hear this. Right now, work is under way at the Ministry of Social Affairs. This has developed rapidly. This is the case when it comes to a measure that everyone sees the benefits of and that really works– then things happen. What we are doing now is looking at the long-term prospects for rehabilitation coordinators as a permanent occupational group within health care. What training basis should you be on? What are the time requirements? This is a work that is currently going on internally at the Ministry of Social Affairs and which hopefully will strengthen quality even more. As we stand and talk about these things, I will think of several things. I know that in connection with a lot of diagnoses we have a situation with fairly long queues in healthcare. You wait for an operation, and the deadlines are ticking. This is something we need to think more about, because the aim of this is that people should come back to health and, not least, to work. Then time limits must not become an obstacle. I do not have a ready-made solution to this, but I have been made aware of it. The natural solution is of course to get the queues down in the care, but it cannot be done overnight. Another thing that I think about when we talk about this is that it is easy for our authorities to reinforce the drainpipes when you focus a lot on their missions. The signal I want to send out clearly is that authorities, health care and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency must understand that it does not work with drain pipes if we are to meet these challenges around the individual in the future. You have to work with the gutter, or you won't solve it for the individual. Thank you for a good debate!
i-80557fd71d428056-132	Mr President, I would like to Maria Stockhaus has asked me what happens to pupils' choice and the quality of their schooling. The question arises because the Government and the Left Party agree that a bill should be presented on the limitation of profits in schools and care and that an investigation should be set up to review various solutions to ensure that tax funds are used for what they are intended for also in health care. The intention is to present a proposal in March 2018. It shall be based on the proposal of the Welfare Investigation, but the details may wait until the legislative referral is presented. The reason why we intend to go forward with the proposal is simple: profit as an incentive does not belong in the welfare sector. The resources that taxpayers provide for the school system should be allocated to children and students. Something is wrong in a system where a listed school company can receive state aid for equivalence on the one hand and, on the other hand, give priority to dividends over strengthening education and improving conditions for teachers. At the same time as the prize hunt is to be stopped, we will safeguard freedom of choice and diversity in welfare. The bourgeois opposition and the Swedish Democrats seem to assume that it is an equation that cannot be reconciled. They believe that school companies will shut down if a profit limit becomes a reality. But I know that this is not the main driving force for all independent schools. The idea-based sector is an important part of Swedish school and has taken a great responsibility where others have failed. For example, when the school group JB Education went bankrupt, Stockholm Stadsmission entered and took over some of their schools. The genuine commitment to a good school is, of course, not only in the purely idea-based sphere – it is broader than that. According to a survey conducted by the Swedish Free Schools Association among its members in 2014, the most important driving forces were to be able to contribute to people's development and learning, to be able to offer education of the highest quality and to be able to work independently according to their own ideas. No one replied that they did so in order to earn a lot of money, which contradicts the interpellant's thesis that independent schools would be shut down if profit restrictions were imposed. Those who want to access the arteries without limiting the possibility of making profits risk having to engage in lengthy detailed regulations. It means more bureaucracy and thereby also less trust in the profession. I do not think that is the way forward for Swedish school. Quality cannot be checked in detail.
i-80557fd71d428056-139	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer. I sometimes wonder if the government itself understands what the proposal that Ilmar Reepalu has come up with really is. The Prime Minister has given the impression that he does not really understand, and when the Minister for Education talks in his reply about making profits, I wonder whether it is the case that the Minister for Education has also misunderstood what the proposal is actually about. There is no party that wants rogue actors who endanger quality for their own economic gain in Swedish welfare, and this also applies, of course, to schools and preschools. Better control of applicants is needed. We also need better control of quality and good follow-up through the School Inspectorate. The proposal now on the table is a manslaughter battle against independent activities and a manslaughter battle against freedom of choice. If 80 per cent of free schools and independent preschools are at risk of closure, what is left to choose from? In Stockholm County's municipalities, we have a larger proportion of students in independent activities. We also have a population increase which means that most municipalities in Stockholm County are struggling hard to find places to meet the needs of the population increase. This proposal, according to the consultation bodies, carries the risk that 80% of these activities will have to be closed down. A small overlap means that it is about 100 000 places in Stockholm County. In fact, I find it hard to understand how the municipalities are going to be able to do this. I myself know from my own experience what it's like to sit in a municipality and try to puzzle with getting school places. It is in itself nice when there are many families with children who want to move to the municipality, absolutely, but all children should also get a school place. The proposal that may now be put on the table of Parliament has been severely criticised by a great many consultation bodies. The fact that the Left Party pays tribute to the proposal is due to the fact that they do not think that there should be independent activities within welfare. But I find the Green Party willing to agree to it strange. This party was at least previously in favour of freedom of choice and diversity within the school. Mr President, I would like to The profit limit proposal is wrong. The audit firm Pricewaterhousecoopers has done an analysis of it. Now I risk becoming a little technical, but the limitation of how much surplus the business may be allowed to join should be counted according to a certain percentage of the operating capital. It is not about how much money the owners have collected, but about how much surplus you get in relation to the operating capital. The problem is that the vast majority of welfare businesses have very little operational capital if they do not own the property, which very few independent businesses do. This means that approximately 90 per cent of independent preschools and 88 per cent of independent schools are at risk of reaching a permissible operating margin below 2 per cent. According to Pricewaterhousecoopers, this means that a business simply cannot survive. You can't handle unforeseen expenses. It is not possible for someone to get long-term sick leave in a small business, for example. I wonder whether, despite all the criticism of the proposal and its construction, the Minister for Education really thinks that this is a reasonable way to remove rogue actors in the field of education. I have also not been able to get an answer from the Minister for Education to the question in my interpellation about how the municipalities in Stockholm County will manage their mission to develop the school and have school places for all students who move into our municipalities or are born here if 100 000 places currently exist disappear.
i-80557fd71d428056-148	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank Maria Stockhaus for raising this important debate. It would, of course, be a killing battle for Sweden's schoolchildren and for the independent activities that exist if we were to impose a profit ban. When I listen to the minister, my thoughts go to some SSU Congress or Young Left Congress. You talk about bad venture capitalists, and you talk about a win hunt. I don't know if the Minister for Education has been travelling in Sweden and met Jan Nordin in Sundsvall, for example, who started an independent school with ten colleagues a number of years ago. He has written a desperately open letter telling him what was his incentive when he started his business. Let us note that in this open letter he does not mention the pursuit of profit. He does not mention that he started the business in order to make profits, so the Minister is of course right in that sense. But he also says in the same column, Mr President, that the proposal that the government is likely to put forward could not have been started. In my hometown of Gävle, there is a fantastically skilled female entrepreneur who has a personal assistance company. She has also written an open letter to the government and Stefan Löfven describing the consequences for her company. She describes that she had not been able to start the business with this proposal and that she will most likely have to close it. She expresses the same thing: they did not start the business to make big profits, but because they wanted to improve welfare. But, of course, the consequence of the profit proposal is that you have to stop. We can also read an open letter from Skellefteå, where an entrepreneur working in the welfare sector describes the same thing. It's an unpleasant rhetoric. I think the government should appreciate all the thousands of small businesses who have put houses and homes in pledges to improve welfare. What if the government instead spent the same time, the same energy and the same energy on improving, for example, the municipal school? Approximately 85 per cent of comprehensive school pupils attend municipal school. That's where we're gonna put the time, isn't it? We will put the effort and commitment to improve school performance in Sweden, Minister, and not to attack the activities of the other 15% that actually work. It is an unpleasant and non-realist rhetoric that I find unworthy of Swedish debate. I think it is unworthy to point out Pernilla in Gävle and Jan in Sundsvall for them to engage in profit hunting, when their ambition is, of course, to improve their business and improve their freedom of choice. Like Maria Stockhaus, I am surprised that the Green Party, which has historically stood on the side of freedom of choice, has now struck an arm hook with the Left Party. The Left Party has never stood up for freedom of choice in Sweden, has it? Why do you let the Left Party, an extreme party here in the Swedish Parliament, decide that we should remove the freedom of choice for all Swedish school students who have chosen an independent school? Mr President, I would like to I appeal to the government to withdraw this proposal. Put the power to improve the municipal school instead!
i-80557fd71d428056-155	Mr President, I would like to In the world of thought, let me take the Minister of Education on a trip to Sweden! In the heart of Dalarna is a town with more than 35 000 inhabitants. It is a typical Swedish small town, but it has a past as a trading venue and school town. Early on there were various types of training to support the region's various industries with labour, and here Sweden's first seminar for teacher training started in 1864, i.e. more than 150 years ago. Of course, this environment also thrives on educational diversity. There are 20 independent preschools and schools in the urban area. Students and their parents have the opportunity to choose what special talents they want to develop and what knowledge needs they want to meet. Thanks to the free school reform carried out by the bourgeois government in the 1990s, it is possible. I would now like to tell you about three of these independent schools. A teacher with many years of teacher experience had a dream that the students would develop their creative aspects, with music and singing and other arts, and have the opportunity to develop both of their brain halves in order to also improve in theoretical subjects, something that they had not been given the opportunity to do in the municipal school. This school quickly became one of the most popular in the municipality and today has more than 500 students and some sixty employees. Eva had worked as a preschool teacher in the municipality, but felt that she could carry out the preschool's assignments in a better way. She started a preschool operation that today has more than 100 children and about thirty employees. There she gives the children a safe, good and stimulating start to life. A group of teachers who worked at a municipal high school and liked to try out new educational ideas, but did not get out of their way, started a high school. It has received quality awards and is one of the few certified UN schools in Sweden. What do these three schools have in common? Well, all three are owned and run by individuals who started their business because they had a special idea of education. They don't have much capital behind them. But today they feel totally powerless and desperate, because they do not know how it will be possible for them to continue to operate if they impose a profit ban in accordance with the Reepalus proposal. They also feel that they are portrayed as greedy bungs eating children and taking tax money away from them when quality is their driving force. A thousand parents and students in this small town also don't know if they can continue to receive their education at the schools where the students go today. I want to know, what am I supposed to do where I go home and meet them on the street? What answer should I give them? What answer does the Minister want to give them?
i-80557fd71d428056-161	Mr President, I would like to I feel very sorry for the Minister for Education. I wonder if the Minister for Education really believes in this proposal. Historically, the Green Party has been a party that is in favour of freedom of choice and small-scaleness, especially with regard to school. Is it really the biggest problem we see in school that you should not be able to make profits in welfare when 20 percent of all students do not even manage comprehensive school? Well, that's where we basically have a problem. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the Green Party has been persuaded by both the Left and the Social Democrats for an idea that shows socialism at its worst. It is a question of banning freedom of choice. Selecting a school is something everyone wants to be able to do. However, if the proposal becomes a reality and if it were to go through Parliament, it would in principle not be possible. It's not about profits in welfare. Basically, it is an aversion to competition. The municipalities have always conducted school, and now there are others who run school. Basically, there is somewhere in the socialist heart that you do not like it. You don't like competition with the municipalities. Before the free school reform, it was the municipal councillor who was allowed to decide which school the children were going to, and everyone was municipal. Then they also gave more power to politics and less power to man. Let's talk about the student or the families. Banning profits in welfare is exactly what it sounds like. It's a trade ban. School companies are not capital-intensive companies. On the basis of the proposal now before us, that only 7% can be charged, plus the government loan interest on operational capital, means only a few thousand which can then be put back in the company in order to be able to parry, for example, bad years. Rather, it is the municipalities you should focus on. We're going to focus on welfare losses. It is very strange when, for example, you have a school grant that a private operator or a free operator makes a profit while the municipalities often make a loss. Then you should also look at efficiency. How is it that some people can manage education with a better efficiency than the municipalities can do? Rather, Mr President, we are going to talk about losses in welfare. It's important to focus on. It is also important that all students can go out to school and get by in life. If welfare gains are banned, freedom of choice will be banned. There are no companies that can do this with the proposal that is before us. Then there will simply be bankruptcies.
i-80557fd71d428056-169	Mr President, I would like to It sounds a little on the debate so far that today we have a perfect system. There is nothing that can be improved. The truth is, we're the only country in the world that lets profit-driven limited companies run primary and secondary schools. In the past it was also Chile, but they have abandoned that system. People from many countries have come here to look at the Swedish school system. But no one has taken after that part of our Swedish school system with the profit-driven limited companies. If it were just that the limited liability companies had been allowed to conduct school activities, it might not have been so serious. But they do it with the support of our tax money. They make a big surplus and make a big profit. Over the years, it has involved billions. The question is whether that money would not have done better in the form of more teachers, better teaching and, for example, better support in school for pupils with special needs. Our tax dollars are not unlimited. It is not a human right for a venture capital company to enter and pursue primary school activities and seize huge over-profits. It is often said that there is a huge risk that these companies will close down. This risk is already present in the current system. We saw, for example, the JB Group, with venture capital companies in the bottom, which suddenly closed down a high school in Malmö, where I come from, and the students stood without grades. They had huge problems with how they could go further. That is the problem we have with the fact that we have allowed the companies to enter. They have no long-term responsibility for what happens to teachers and students at all. That responsibility falls back on the municipalities. One argument for allowing it to be completely free for profit-driven companies is that the options of different pedagogy, idea-based activities and non-profit activities should be put forward. The problem is that venture capital companies have largely taken over. It has been they who have won the contracts. That's why the others have been pushed back. One reason for profit limitation is to be able to get rid of the rogue players and release the others. This is not a total ban on non-municipal school activities. I do not understand how we can defend the system we have today when we have seen the major problems. We can see that children's school scores have fallen according to the OECD. It's finally turned around. However, school equivalence is still a major problem. It's about the differences between the students. It is absolutely crucial if we are to cope with unemployment in the future that all students pass grades. Then it is not enough that there are those who have great grades. We also need to lift those students who are in trouble today. We will not do so unless we overcome the problems of equivalence. There is an interest in venture capital companies to keep costs down. Then there will also be a risk of segregation. They have schools where they are mostly children of highly educated parents with fairly good incomes. Children from lower-income homes where parents have a lower educational background are at risk of going to other schools. Rather, we must ensure that the children go together. When you have brought together students who have high results with students who have low results, all the tendencies show that then students with lower results raise their results without them getting worse results with good results. Something has to be done. It is most obvious, particularly in the field of school, that we need to get to the venture capital companies.
i-80557fd71d428056-177	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Maria Stockhaus very much for the interpellation and for the great commitment of the moderate parliamentary group in this matter. Of course, you are also welcome to all the other interpellation debates that Maria Stockhaus and I have. For example, if you had come to them, Lars Beckman could have heard about the 20,000 more people employed in Swedish schools in recent years. Three out of four teachers today have a government wage increase. Certified teachers have been introduced in primary and secondary schools. The state goes in and consciously works with school development at over 200 schools that have had particularly big challenges and are involved in raising the results. It is the biggest change in the state's relationship with the school since the municipalisation and establishment of the School Inspectorate. We have finally turned around so that today we have more special teachers in school. We are investing heavily in the reduction of child groups in Fritis and preschool and how to give teachers a stronger mandate to put in the support a student needs when they see that a student needs it already in primary school. We have a great commitment to the students in all of Sweden's schools to get the knowledge they need all the way up to leaving the ninth grade with the ticket further into high school and to take control of their own life. I note, Mr President, that much of the criticism about how to draw up a proposal on the limitation of profits is due to the way in which the Welfare Committee presented its proposals. The government has not yet presented a legislative referral. The idea that I put forward in my interpellation response is that we will be able to come forward with a bill in March 2018, and I cannot therefore answer individual questions about exactly how it will be designed until we are finished in preparation. We now take in all the referral points that have come up with the Welfare Investigation's proposal to come up with the best possible proposal. I also note that several of the questions that are consistently asked are based on the fact that if we introduce a profit limit, it makes it impossible to run free school in Sweden. It's not like that. The examples you mention of very good schools and school innovators and teachers and principals who want to be involved in running something to give students the best possible school, as well as many of the free school actors I myself meet, are precisely examples of schools that want to continue to operate even if we make sure that the tax money that you and I put into the business will reach the students. We have already been able to make it clear that if the regulatory framework we are putting forward for public limited companies in the school sphere involves difficulties and quadriplegicities, because it must be that way by nature, ideas-based activities should be excluded so that they can feel confident that they can be continued in the form they have. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude with a few questions. It was said in the interpellation debate that there are or in any case there have been rogue actors, and we have had examples that students have basically met with a note on the door where it said: Sorry, but I have emptied the company of money and conned the business – good luck! Do the Moderates not see that this, i.e. the lack of rules that guarantee that the money that you and I put into the business also comes to the students, leads to the loss of confidence in all free schools, including those free schools that do a great job and that you mention? It is said that we want to ensure that all schools are of good quality. But how do you do it if you first let everyone in regardless of control and whether you know what the money is going to do and then go in and check in detail, which leads to more bureaucracy for teachers and principals? Do not the Moderates see that more bureaucracy risks hampering diversity and educational alternatives?
i-80557fd71d428056-188	Mr President, I would like to There have been many posts here. Mr Jag mentioned that the important thing that we would like to see is a tougher control of those who are coming in. A better control is therefore needed before you get permission to operate. The School Inspectorate is now tasked with looking also at the economy to ensure that the money stays in the company and that the money goes to what it is intended for. So I think there is a good answer to that particular question. This is not about companies that are driven by profit, but about the ability of small companies to survive. It is said that the proposal should be based on the proposal of the Well-Speed Investigation, and it is the design that causes problems not least for the small players but also for the large ones. I don't know if the Minister of Education has heard that the International English School is delaying or even considering interrupting its establishment in Karlskrona because of the uncertainty about the future regarding the possibility of building buffers and the possibility of growing and remaining. I think that's pretty serious. It's a school group that – at least it's my picture after the visits I've made – is very serious and produces good results for their students. It is serious, I think, if that group chooses not to start its establishment. I don't know if the Minister of Education has read Pricewaterhousecooper's analysis, but it's well worth reading. It shows that 86 per cent of the welfare companies that are at risk of falling below the operating margin of 2 per cent, which according to them is absolutely crucial, not to distribute a lot of money to the owners but for the company to survive at all, have fewer than ten employees. It is these small businesses that are not given the opportunity to build up a buffer, and they are not able to parry unforeseen expenses. I don't have any figures on it, but I'd say that over 90 percent of these companies have probably never distributed a penny to any of their owners. These companies simply cannot survive. What happens to children who attend these activities? This is going to be a hit for many of these little players. I find it hard to understand that a government that calls itself feminist wants to hit female entrepreneurs so hard. I do not know how many visits I have made to Stockholm County in small preschools where a driven preschool teacher has an idea of how to develop the business and does not feel that you get a response in a municipal organisation but instead starts a company and runs its business with up to perhaps ten employees. Parents appreciate this type of small-scale activity where you are close to management and know that management has a commitment. It is easy to influence as a parent and it is easy to have a dialogue with those who run the business. I tried to be available when I was a municipal councillor and responsible for preschool and school, but it is not always easy to get hold of the responsible municipal councillor and have a dialogue. It can feel far away, unlike what it can be like in these smaller businesses. You call yourself a feminist government, and this regulation will prove to be extremely hard on female entrepreneurship and make it very difficult for these women to carry on their business. I find that very difficult to understand and would like an answer to how the Minister for Education views the proposal in relation to female entrepreneurship.
i-80557fd71d428056-195	Mr President, I would like to I want to give the Minister of Education the right thing to do. Moderates are passionate about freedom of choice. We are passionate that the little man should have the opportunity, regardless of economic background, to choose his own school. That is the basic foundation for us Moderates. I usually say that we are the main defenders of freedom and the market economy, and I find it deeply unfortunate that this government has struck an arm with the Left Party. The Left Party has consistently – always, always, always – been against freedom of choice. Giving a 5% veto on such an important issue is deeply unfortunate, Mr President. The left-wing agenda is clear. They don't want freedom of choice. They want everyone to have it just as bad. There is a clear dividing line in politics, and this is what I find so unfortunate. I have known environmental partners for many years, and at home in my constituency you have an MEP whom I have always understood actually shares our values on this issue. It has been in favour of small-scale freedom of choice, but here you have given the Left Party veto. They're consistent. Hillevi Larsson is consistent. It should not be freedom of choice; everyone should have it equally bad. But I want, and the Moderates want, that regardless of economic background, you can choose the school you want to go to or be able to opt out of what you think is bad. That's where we split up. The profit ban is only the means used by the Left Party to knock out all independent schools, but of course we will fight that all we can from the Swedish Parliament.
i-80557fd71d428056-200	Mr President, I would like to Let us continue to talk about the small urban area with diversity in Dalarna where it has been possible to develop pedagogy and where students and parents have had the opportunity to choose a school. Teachers who teach there have competence in their subjects, and it is not difficult to get competent staff. Of the students leaving grade 9, more than 90 per cent are eligible to apply for upper secondary school. Not so far away, only 15 minutes by train, lies the slightly larger urban area where the municipality did not let out the diversity of choice of schools. There are three anyway, and they are run by individual and committed educators. In this municipality people have been employed without authorisation and in some cases with little knowledge of the Swedish language. They're supposed to teach first-class children. And in the municipality, 30 percent of the students are unauthorized when they graduate from grade 9. Can any conclusions be drawn regarding the quality of teaching in these municipalities? Could it be that a municipality with diversity and choice opportunities for individual students can have better quality? I would like to know what the Minister thinks about this. I know the Minister is too diverse. But this is significant; it is about two about the same size places a few hours away from Stockholm by train. As we have talked about before, and as Maria Stockhaus has produced so well, it is women who run many of these companies. Profit limitation in welfare would hit female entrepreneurs.
i-80557fd71d428056-206	Mr President, I would like to In my previous speech, I felt sorry for the Minister for Education. But I have a confession: I am not a school politician in that sense, but Maria Stockhaus is doing very well. On the other hand, I smell socialism. This proposal would mean exactly that. It would mean a ban on business, and that would result in the loss of choice for our students. It's as simple as that. The minister says he can't go into technicalities. But those very technicalities mean that we will not be able to have free schools in this country. It is therefore quite right that the Moderates are the party involved in the matter, precisely because we have always been the defenders of freedom. We have always seen the little man and not looked at large, collective solutions. In this case, large collective solutions would mean that only one actor can run schools in this country; they are municipalities, as it used to be. It is not a good return or development, we believe. It will only hamper development, especially for our students. The free school John Bauer is often highlighted in the debate about schools that have gone bankrupt. It is rather ironic that LO was one of the major owners of the Free School Group, Mr President. LO is an organisation that is very close to the Social Democrats. Then one can say that it was the Social Democrats who, via LO, shut down John Bauer, who went bankrupt. But all 11,000 students — I think it was 11,000 — got another place in school. It worked out in itself in a good way there. The problem is that the proposal hinders freedom of choice. One should focus on the quality of school and look at the loss of welfare.
i-80557fd71d428056-212	Mr President, I would like to On the basis of this debate, one might think that the school stands and falls by saying that these venture capital companies are allowed to continue as before, that it is they who are the backbone of Swedish school, who are supporting it. I would say that they are the ones who weigh it down. They're the ones who take resources from school. It is resources that should instead go to teachers and students. It is venture capital companies that push away the small-scale options, precisely the small and medium-sized enterprises that could go in and do a good job instead. So I cannot understand the problem of crowding out the worst of them. It's not supposed to be quarterly capitalism running the school. It can't be the ultimate. There are short-term benefits instead of long-term responsibility, which we need more of in Swedish schools. All studies show that procurements are disadvantageous to small operators. The Competition Authority has even given a mandate to split procurements into smaller parts, precisely so that small operators can enter. I do not understand the problem of limiting this situation for the large venture capital companies. This does not mean a ban on smaller operators. On the contrary, this means letting the smaller players out. In other contexts we usually say that you should be able to follow every penny of tax to see what it is used for. It should be used in the best possible way. That's not what happens when the venture capital companies run. Billion-dollar profits have run out in those companies, in dividends. Individuals have become millionaires on our tax dollars. It stings in my eyes, I think. Limiting profits does not mean banning independent schools. It is about us being responsible with the tax money that comes in. We need to invest even more in students and teachers. They're the school's biggest resource.
i-80557fd71d428056-218	Mr President, I would like to The government has made it clear that the rules that will be included in the legislative referral and later the bill that we will present will apply to companies within school and care that are organized in such a way that there is a risk of picking money – tax money that you and I have put in – out of business. Idea-borne actors who can otherwise guarantee that the money you and I spend goes to creating quality for students, or for care providers, should not be affected by the rules. We have been very clear there. This change will take place in relation to Ilmar Reepalus's proposal in the safety investigation. A question was asked about the quality and the link with independent operators. There are good municipal schools and schools that do not meet the standards. There are good free schools and free schools that don't measure up. In order to ensure that all children are allowed to attend a school where they can bring with them the necessary skills in life, it is necessary for the state, in a completely different way than before, to guarantee equivalence across the country and between schools. The state should be prepared to work with the very schools that have challenges and ensure that the results there are lifted. Let's do that now. A question was asked about female entrepreneurship. We do not intend to stop the possibility for women or men who want to start an alternative to the municipal school. That possibility should remain. But we want to regulate it. I also think that in all other sectors too, women should have full opportunities to run businesses and reach the highest positions. There should not be female and male industries that are forever given. Maria Stockhaus said an interesting thing at the beginning of the interpellation debate. It was about how we can regulate harder who gets the trust to run our perhaps most important welfare mission – to give our children a good school. She opened because even the Moderates see that there may be a need for that kind of rules. What kind of rules should we have? I think one of the demands we should be able to make on the person who gets the trust to run a school is that the tax money that you and I put into the business should reach the students and those who work at the school. The money should go to create the most education, the most knowledge and the most quality. It is a regulation that I want to do. Perhaps this is when it comes to what regulations we should have, as there are differences between parties, not if there are to be regulations. I want to end this round by being clear about why I think one of the regulations we should have should be precisely the guarantee that tax money going in creates quality for students. I do not think it is reasonable for us to go into a company with money to create equivalence and quality in teaching, and instead we see that money is being distributed in dividends. It doesn't make sense. That money should go to the students, to raise teachers' salaries or to hire more to create better quality in that school. I do not think it makes sense for us to have operators who live off tax money and, at the same time, register in tax havens in order to avoid paying taxes. I do not think it makes sense that for several years you can pick money out of a business and then bankrupt it, so that students, teachers and principals get caught. I don't agree that things went well with JB. The 11,000 students who were affected were very worried. They did not know what would happen after the summer, and of course it affected their teaching. No, I do not think it makes sense for schools to be a speculative commodity between venture capital companies. As far as this is concerned, I also agree with the former Minister of Finance, Anders Borg, but apparently not with the rest of his party, the Moderates.
i-80557fd71d428056-230	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I wonder whether the Minister for Education has understood what the proposal is. I would have a greater understanding of the way in which it was argued whether it was about dividends, but the proposal contained in the welfare inquiry, which the government says should form the basis of its proposal, is about limiting the surplus that can be made in the business. An activity that is small or newly started needs to go with a certain surplus in order to survive at all. This is not about owners who collect money, it is about a company's ability to survive. According to Pricewaterhousecooper's investigation, this proposal leads to 80 percent of all independent preschools and schools being forced to shut down because they are unable to keep the business going in the long term. For some companies that have very little assets in the balance sheet, it will be a zero result. They can't go with the plus at all. If two students move or a teacher gets long-term sick leave in a small business, this means that there are no margins. That is the problem. The government's attitude from the beginning was that we should jointly try to establish rules that provide long-term conditions for the welfare activities and the companies that operate within them. I am absolutely convinced that we could discuss this if we went to a level that is reasonable. However, one can see that the Left Party does not want to keep these companies at all and thinks politicians are better sent to decide where students should go to school, and that is one thing. But I take the view that the Green Party does not have this attitude. And within the Social Democrats it's pretty much fifty-fifty, isn't it? However, it is a question of looking at how dividends are to be handled. That's where money disappears from the corporations. This proposal limits the potential for profits that companies need to survive, and this is strange.
i-LdH4EFJAbKELE4dnDT47jy	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Stockhaus and others who have participated in the interpellation debate! This applies both to those from the Moderate Coalition Party and of course to Hillevi Larsson from the Social Democrats. Well, I have read the welfare inquiry, read the referrals and discussed with many in the school sector, both municipal and independent actors. There are some problems with the proposal, which is the whole background to the government's fact that even now, before we have presented a legislative referral and a bill, it has been made clear that anyone who can otherwise guarantee that the tax money that we put into the business – money that you and I give to the school – will not disappear into profit or be removed otherwise, but actually comes up to the students and creates quality in teaching should not be hit by these rules. It was a shortcoming of Ilmar Reepalus's proposal that there was no such exception or possibility for companies to give taxpayers and the common welfare a guarantee in other ways that they will make use of the resources they receive and that they will go to what they are intended for, namely to create the best possible schooling and the best quality for students. That is why we have already made it clear that the proposal we are going to put forward contains such rules. This will not apply to all actors, but only to those who choose to operate in a form that does not give us such guarantees in any other way. It will then unfortunately be a little harder control on every crown year from year to year. The reason we are making these demands is that we do not once again want to see scandals and stories that we have met, where activities have not been well run and where money has disappeared elsewhere. Money has ended up in tax havens or has been paid out to shareholders when it would actually have gone to the quality of teaching. There will be people who think that these rules are difficult and difficult, but I think they are needed to build confidence. And that is ultimately the most important thing for all free schools.
i-80557fd71d428056-238	Mr President, I would like to Per Klarberg has asked me what measures I intend to take at the emergency stage to strengthen safety on Swedish railways and what the government has done since the last time he pointed out the problem. As my predecessor presented in Parliament on 5 May this year in his reply to Per Klarberg's interpellation 2016/ 17:459 on measures to prevent trainjackings, measures are already being taken to ensure a good level of protection in the railway sector – both at home and at EU level. At EU level, work on land transport security issues is coordinated by the Commission through its specially established Working Group on Landsec. With regard to railway protection, the work of Landsec, as well as work at national level, has focused on risk, vulnerability and action identification, but with the difference that the main objective is to assess whether action at EU level should be taken to complement national protection efforts. So far, agreement has been reached on the value of information and exchange of experience on best practice as well as some common methodology development to support ongoing national work. A special working group on railway protection has therefore been set up under Landsec for these purposes. At national level, systematic risk, vulnerability and action identification work was launched in the rail sector this spring. The work is conducted by the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Security Service, the Swedish Transport Agency, the Swedish Public Transport Agency, Jernhusen AB and the railway undertakings and is coordinated within the framework of the National Council for Railway and Public Transport Protection (NRJK) established last spring. The Government has proposed in the budget proposal a total of SEK 138 million for the period 2018–2020 to increase the number of stations that have surveillance and camera surveillance with the aim of providing better protection and planning conditions for increased safety and security at the stations, and to increase the number of security-building measures with station hosts through collaboration between different operators at the stations, which is also a labour market measure that creates modern preparedness jobs. I am, of course, following developments both at home and at European level. I am also prepared that further action may need to be taken, not least as a result of the ongoing work within NRJK and Landsec.
i-80557fd71d428056-242	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. There is concern among me and among my fellow train drivers. It is a concern that has actually existed since 11 September 2001, but it has become more evident since the terrorist attack in Stockholm. After every act of terror, society is doing everything to prevent the next, while terrorists are constantly looking for new mass murder techniques. Society is always the step behind, from airplanes that turn into missiles to trucks used as weapons. What's the next thing? Maybe it'll be a train hijacking. To hijack aircraft was a known terror technique in the 1960s and beyond. Passengers were held hostage to obtain political concessions. But no one, except the Al Qaeda terrorists who planned the September 11th attacks, had thought that one could use full-blown aircraft as bombs. No one thought anyone was prepared to commit suicide by flying a plane into a building. The methods did not exist in the imaginations of the responsible decision-makers. This lack of imagination among decision-makers led to the loss of 3 000 people that day. After that, we have been asked what will become the next grip of terrorists. Last in the line are trucks like murder weapons. It started already in 2014 in Canada and France when cars were used to drive as many people as possible. The attack in Nice last summer was the first when a terrorist with a truck managed to kill a lot of people: 86 lost their lives and 434 injured. Earlier, trucks filled with explosives had been used. Yet it has taken time for society to get an eye on this unstoppable method. The monitoring unit has been significant since Nice. After 11 September 2001, new safety rules were introduced for air traffic in order to avoid acts of the same nature. As far as trucks are concerned, things are slowing down. But after the actions of Nice, Berlin, London and most recently Stockholm, the Minister's representative, Anna Johansson, acted. On the government website, she called a meeting on 13 April to prevent trucks from being used as vehicles for acts of terror. Soon, however, terrorists will find a new method, something that no one has thought about. It's about taking something that already exists and using it as a deadly weapon. There are people who spend all their waking time trying to figure out new terror techniques. Why should it be almost impossible to act before a disaster is a fact? When I asked the Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth a couple of questions about what he now intends to take in the emergency phase for measures to strengthen safety on Swedish railways and what the government has done since the last time I pointed out the problem, I received a somewhat strange answer. In addition, the Government has proposed in the budget proposal a total of SEK 138 million for the period 2018–2020 to increase the number of stations that have surveillance and camera surveillance in order to provide better protection and planning conditions for increased safety and security at the stations, and to increase the number of security-building measures with station hosts through collaboration between different operators at the stations. ..................................................... Does the Government really have any idea – please answer honestly – how easy it is to hijack a train, shut down all the security systems and cause a disaster? This is precisely what this interpellation debate is about.
i-80557fd71d428056-250	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Per Klarberg, for your commitment! I know you're a train driver, and I really appreciate the commitment. But as a Member of Parliament, it must be well known to you that changes to anticipate the unpredictable require that you rely on expertise that can see what conditions there are to make preventive efforts. Of course, it requires imagination and creativity, and in such a regulated area of activity as rail transport, it requires the development of common rules and common agreements. It is not easy for a country itself to take specific measures or to require producers or others to take protective measures. There are also strong regulations that require joint agreements. I am very hopeful that we will come up with clear rules in the joint work within the European Union. We have come a long way, but I can also share the impatience of the honourable Member, who is expressed in the interpellation in a desire for it to go faster. It is all the more important when we come to joint conclusions that they have a clear impact on the whole rail market and on the whole of Europe's rail system. The reason why the interpellation response contains information about the 138 million bet is that I very much think that the initiative is relevant. In this particular case, it is a matter of developing protective measures for once someone is on board a train. However, the honourable Member must admit that there is a point in preventing people from entering the station area at an early stage. It is possible to take good protective measures in the form of camera surveillance or other protection. In recent times we have learned that track running has become very common. This is a major concern for rail operators nowadays. I therefore believe that this type of monitoring should not be underestimated. They make us travelers feel safer. Greater predictability is created in the planning of train traffic. It will also provide better protection for passengers and staff on our railways. I think it's so important. Of course, both operators and NRJK's joint work will lead to concrete measures for protection. At the moment, experience is being exchanged and best practice is being looked at, and a number of concrete proposals are being made for action. I hope that this work will go smoothly and quickly ahead, and I will of course follow the issue in my work as Minister of State. I myself am committed to making clear efforts to increase protection, not least for such a cherished business as our train traffic in Sweden.
i-80557fd71d428056-255	Mr President, I would like to Of course you wish things went a little faster. I hope the Minister understands my frustration. Already in 2014 I was exercising about the problem of how easy it is to take over a train. The motion was discussed in the Transport Committee in spring 2015, and before that I had been out in Hagalund and photographed a scenario for how to do, from start to finish, taking over an X 2000 train. The course of events to take over and cut a train at full speed takes ten seconds. I can inform the Minister that the other Members looked terrified after the presentation of how easy it is in reality. I have the expertise requested by the Minister because I have been a train driver for more than 25 years. After the Transport Committee had prepared the motion, I received a call from SJ AB's head of security. He wanted to see me because he had heard about the presentation. I visited him the next day and showed him the same presentation. SJ AB's head of security was quite shocked after the presentation. He excused himself for being a new employee as SJ AB's head of security. It's been more than two years. On 7 March this year, two years later, SJ AB introduced a shell protection on its traffic management. SJ's traffic management deals with personnel distribution issues, locomotives and wagon orbits. There a shell cover is inserted, but since I pointed out the problem to SJ AB's head of security has not done anything to prevent unauthorised persons from entering the train driver while travelling.
i-80557fd71d428056-259	The answer I received at the time was astounding. The representative of the Government replied: ..................................................... I wonder why people are so reluctant to ensure that trains are not used in terrorist attacks. Security measures, Minister, with station hosts do not stop terrorists. It is very dear that there are station hosts on the train, but they do not prevent train cuts. It is really a simple and obvious measure, namely to force railway undertakings to install safety doors. These are the same types of safety doors that are on the aircraft and that are actually available on the market today. The railway companies obviously do not do it on their own.
i-80557fd71d428056-261	Mr President, I would like to I would like to point out that my predecessor said in the interpellation debate that the quote on the responsibility of rail operators was completely out of context. She also had a longer discussion of why. It would be good if the honourable Member did not repeat conscious misinterpretations of what Anna Johansson said at the time in the speaker's chair. I am a little surprised when a representative of the Swedish Democrats nevertheless says that an investment in greater security at our railway stations in the form of camera surveillance and hosts would have no effect whatsoever. On the contrary, it would be welcome by travellers, train operators, those who manage the premises in the station areas and those who work in rail transport that we are now increasing our efforts by 138 million to secure stations and secure environments for travellers. Good camera surveillance would facilitate the police's work in possible criminal investigations afterwards and in the preventive work. I have to ask the basic question: will the Swedish Democrats reject and not support the investment we make for safe stations? It would be remarkable because it is requested by many. The government hasn't sat completely still. Of course, a number of authorities are given the task of preparing emergency response. Among other things, both the Swedish Transport Administration and the Swedish Transport Agency have been commissioned, which will be reported as soon as 1 October, to develop measures to develop emergency preparedness. It also applies to measures against terrorist acts. Before long, I will receive an account from our central authorities of what efforts can be made. The government is not passive; on the contrary, there are a number of processes going on. On the other hand, I note that the display Per Klarberg made to the members of the Committee on Transport apparently had the effect of rejecting Per Klarberg's motion. It was not approved by the Swedish parliament. Many other Members – I assume Members from all parties are wise – chose to make other assessments than singlely pointing out a measure as the most important. Preventive action is important. However, I must also ensure that, in my work as Minister of State, the efforts are carried out in accordance with the common regulatory framework that exists within the EU. Although Per Klarberg's party does not think that Sweden should be a member of the European Union, I still think that we must respect the common rules that exist. There are a number of common rules in the field of interoperability regulation on what requirements we can impose on operators that we have to take into account. Again, I appreciate the commitment. I myself am committed to ensuring that we have a safer environment for both passengers and operators – and not least for train drivers, who are doing fantastic work and are also severely exposed, not least with the suicide problem in rail transport. I am happy to listen to the wisdom of many with that experience. But I also think that we must respect the fact that some of these processes may take time. Yes, it is sometimes frustrating, but it is also important that, when we come forward, we have common rules that apply to rail transport in Europe so that we do not have major differences in the level of protection between the different countries of the European Union. Thankfully, trains also run between the different countries of the European Union.
i-80557fd71d428056-269	Mr President, I would like to Now I have to give the minister not just one but two snaps on his nose. Firstly, the motion I had in the Committee on Transport actually resulted in a statement from the committee which reads: The committee assumes that the government actively pursues the issue of increased rail safety and that adequate measures are taken to this end. So, yes, the exercise resulted in something. So to the other snap on the nose, Mr President. The Minister mixes the interpellation debate this spring with a written question from 2015. From the answer to it, I have a quote from the minister at the time: This is Anna Johansson's answer to my written question, so the Minister must be completely misinformed. I do not know how often the Minister rides trains or whether the Minister is aware of how easy it is to get into the train driver while travelling. On an Öresund train, the driver is protected by two styc ken very thin cardboard doors. On X 2000, SJ AB's flagship of all, you meet when you reach the driver's cab in the control wagon by a small handhold on the side where it says You can only remove a small plastic cover, open the door and get into the train driver when the train is running at 200 kilometers per hour. You turn off the security system in a few seconds and eliminate the engineer. Then there is a rushing missile, Minister. There is nothing in the world that can stop it, more than when it roars at full speed into another train.
i-80557fd71d428056-273	Mr President, I would like to I note that I did not receive an answer as to whether the Swedish Democrats think it is good that we are investing SEK 138 million in strengthening the safety of our stations. I look forward to the draft budget that the Swedish Democrats will present, but given the huge savings that the Swedish Democrats want to make in large parts of the welfare area, there is a risk that in this area too, we do not see the need to make this kind of security investment. The government believes that it is important for the passengers, for those who work on the trains and, of course, for the operators. When it comes to the exercise, I can surely say that I have some experience of sitting in Parliament – I have done so for 23 years. I note that a committee may well write, but the question is whether the motion was approved or rejected. It didn't get approval. As far as the quote from Anna Johansson is concerned, I have read the Minutes of the debate. I note that Anna Johansson corrects the interpretation made by the interpeller and says that the interpeller chooses to take the matter out of its context. Then there is a longer discussion of the involvement of the then Minister for Infrastructure in these matters. I share this commitment. We have given the authorities the task of working on it. There will be reports as soon as 1 October on protection measures. In addition, we are conducting ongoing discussions within the EU and within Landsec, and there is effective cooperation between operators and the industry within a specific, own organisation. Processes are therefore under way. Again, I have respect for the strong commitment that exists and can share this. However, I also have respect for experts, the judicial review that is taking place and the joint agreements that we have as members of the European Union, and I must take this into account when acting as a minister of state. I'm happy to go by train, and I'm on a lot of trains. In fact, soon I will also be accompanying a train driver out, so I will continue to inform myself about this and will gladly take note of several of Per Klarberg's colleagues' wisdom in this area.
i-80557fd71d428056-280	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson has asked me the following: First of all, I would like to stress that all government agencies are obliged to reduce the vulnerability of society through their activities, to develop a good ability to manage their tasks before and at increased preparedness and to take into account the demands of total defence. In this context, the Government stresses the importance of developing cooperation between authorities. The Government decided in May 2017 to commission the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration, the Swedish Maritime Administration, the Swedish Transport Administration and the Swedish Transport Agency to report on the measures taken and planned by each authority to further develop crisis preparedness and civil defence. The assignment shall be presented by 1 October 2017. With regard to Mikael Oscarsson's first question, I note that the government is not currently considering changing the headship of sea and air rescue. Regarding Mikael Oscarsson's second question, I note that the Swedish Maritime Administration has already had a well-established collaboration with the Swedish Armed Forces for a long time. As far as Mikael Oscarsson's third question is concerned, the Swedish Maritime Administration's helicopters do not have the task, nor do they have the equipment to put out fires. Nor has the demand been made to the authority of previous governments. I see no reason at present to change this relationship. As far as Mikael Oscarsson's fourth question is concerned, I note that the Swedish Maritime Administration's helicopters are one of the most important tools in society when various civil protection resources are required and can be used when there is a need. Finally, as far as Mikael Oscarsson's fifth question is concerned, according to the information I have received from the Swedish Maritime Administration, the work has reported in different contexts that the ability exists for the helicopters to operate in mountain terrain and that this specific activity is under development.
i-80557fd71d428056-287	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to the Minister for Infrastructure, by the way, I congratulate you on that role, you get the impression that the Minister is talking about something that's tough and going. It's kind of no problem. But I think the Minister for Infrastructure knows that this is not the case. In my view, the last few years' reviews of the Swedish Maritime Administration show that the Authority is inappropriate as the principal for the important maritime and air rescue operations and the operation of the helicopters. At the same time, we know that there are questions about the Swedish Maritime Administration's finances. If we take into account the overall defence perspective and the need for increased cooperation between authorities and the efficient use of state platforms, we see that there are strong reasons for returning responsibility for SAR helicopters and, in my opinion, also icebreakers to the Swedish Armed Forces. It would also be in line with the Maritim collaboration investigation carried out in 2012. It did not become a reality then, but since then a lot has happened. Then there was a point that the Swedish Maritime Administration still worked well. But there was still reason, as the investigator suggested at the time, to enter the operation under the Swedish Armed Forces. Since then, the Minister for Infrastructure knows that a lot has happened. You can no longer say that this is something that works well. The KU has reviewed and gives heavy criticism to the Ministry of Industry and the Swedish Maritime Administration, for example because private e-mails were used and agreements were signed before the Riksdag had made a decision. The Competition Authority gives heavy criticism. JO gives serious criticism. The Swedish National Audit Office gives serious criticism. Most recently, there are questions about how you are doing with the staff and whether you are doing your job. What I said at the outset is, like what is the question after we have seen these reviews and the results. We can see that we are not telling the truth in terms of statistics and ability. The Haveri Commission claims that 168 efforts have been made in Umeå, but the truth was that it was a quarter: 44. They also exaggerated the tasks when they were on the Constitutional Committee. Until just recently, it was claimed that you were in the air after 15 minutes at all the alarms. Now it turns out that this is not the case at all. As you know, the government is investing billions in the defense, not least the Air Force. A number of times now have the opportunity to practice limited because rescue helicopters are not available. Gotland is, as the Minister knows, in focus for the defence and our preparedness, but has been without rescue helicopters for several periods this summer due to staff shortages, including during large parts of Almedalsveckan. To keep up appearances, a Ronneby helicopter was taken there on the day the Director General was in place. Is this a readiness worth the name? This is something I want to hear more about, in depth. Now the minister listed the standard answers: business as usual, we go on, it's no problem. The Minister knows that's not the case. What are your thoughts on this, as a new minister in this important area?
i-80557fd71d428056-296	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mikael Oscarsson! Thanks also for the commitment – it is well known that Mikael Oscarsson is deeply involved in the history of the Swedish Maritime Administration: JK-registration, which JK did not proceed with, and motions in the Riksdag, which have repeatedly been rejected. But it is true that the KU also made a test, and the Minister of the Alliance who was responsible for the main issue then received quite a sharp criticism from the Constitutional Committee. So there is a great deal of responsibility to demand from the then alliance government in terms of how to deal with both procurement issues and the work's activities. Since then, much has happened; it is quite true. There has been more order and order in the business. The number of interventions, not least in the mountain environment, has increased. The basic question, of course, is whether we should change the headship, as proposed by the maritime investigation. Quite a few referrals were strongly critical of the investigator's proposal. The then government did not want to do anything, and since then the parliament has not supported a changed headship. In fact, in the face of this interpellation debate, I have received several comments and signals, not least from the Maritime Rescue Society, which are concerned about what such a headship could mean for change. We have 2 100 well-trained and well-equipped sea rescuers, who make fantastic contributions. The Maritime Rescue Society has 110 000 members who, on a voluntary basis and through local and regional fundraising, are doing a fantastic job. I believe that the Maritime Rescue Society accounts for 70% of the rescue operations being carried out. Then one must ask the question, because the main question is the basic question in this interpellation: What do Mikael Oscarsson and the Christian Democrats say to the Marine Rescue Society? Are you not listening to the anxiety about what a changed headship could mean for changes? Will the Christian Democrats and perhaps other alliance parties push the question of a change of headship in the run-up to the elections? I will, of course, follow the work of the Swedish Maritime Administration and ensure that the criticism that the Swedish National Audit Office has given and clearly corrects the shortcomings that have previously existed in the operation is taken on board. I note that these signals have actually been taken seriously by the new Director-General. But I think that the basic question deserves an answer: will the Christian Democrats and the Alliance parties push the question of a change of headship?
i-80557fd71d428056-303	Mr President, I would like to It is a well-known manner, which also you, Tomas Eneroth, as a new minister quickly slips into, to quickly refer to that it was someone else's fault. I can inform you that it is in fact the Minister who is responsible. You need to see how things are now. Criticism from the Swedish Competition Authority, JO and the Swedish National Audit Office requires action now. As far as the Marine Rescue Society is concerned, it is a fantastic organization. I think there are even more, perhaps close to 75%, of all the rescue operations they are doing. This is what the Government knows. In any case, it is the view of the Christian Democrats that we must give even more priority to NGOs. This also applies when we build civil defence. We have no chance unless the non-profit sector and the civilian sector are involved. Nevertheless, it must be our job to see to what is best, how we use tax money best and how we get a business that works. Now it has turned out that this is a principal who does not work. That must be the important thing. Historically, sea rescue has also been under the Swedish Armed Forces. When you then do regulatory letters and other things, you have to emphasise the importance of the Marine Rescue Society. But if we look at the outside world, we can see that in Norway, for example, the Kystvärgen, which is under the Armed Forces, is under control. In America you have Coast Guard. That is why we also need to build civil defence. It would be one thing, Mr President, if we saw before us that things were getting calmer and calmer. But let's see how it gets tougher and tougher. We're currently working on the Defense Committee. Then we must have control of such an important matter as the precious helicopter resources of the state. The same applies to icebreaking. This actually requires a round-up. It is true, as the Minister said earlier, that the Swedish Maritime Administration is not responsible for forest fire control from the air. But does the Minister know that no authority is responsible today? The defense will be there if you have the opportunity. Otherwise, we will have to rely on private actors and neighbouring countries. The state owns seven helicopters, which can become the very efficient resource with relatively little means. Is it not more reasonable, then, to look at the issue and ensure that the Swedish Maritime Administration's helicopters can also be used in large forest fires? Is it reasonable to have such poor management and planning that only the surplus cost of the five crews is 52 million a year, 600 000 per employee? This has been allowed to continue despite the fact that the Swedish National Audit Office has been alerting us about the high costs for two years. The basic question comes back: Is it reasonable to give this important activity to an authority that has ignored the principle of public access, inter alia, by using private e-mail addresses when the helicopters were procured and which, moreover, ignored the form of government, budget law and procurement law? Is it not reasonable to see that the form in which sea rescue is carried out has come to the end of the road? It's time to hand over the headmanship and operation!
i-80557fd71d428056-311	Mr President, I would like to I note that Mikael Oscarsson still gets caught up in and returns to the trauma during the time of the alliance government, when, as noted, private e-mail addresses were used in a procurement process. This was rightly very harshly criticised, and the KU was not gracious in its examination of how the then alliance government dealt with the issue. Now it's second pitch. Now the Swedish Maritime Administration's management follows the advice of the Swedish National Audit Office and implements systems to get better order and order. But I still have to say that I'm a little surprised. I know Christian democracy well and know that both the party and the movement have a strong civil commitment. Mikael Oscarsson and I are usually able to meet in the strong commitment that exists, not least in total defence and civil defence issues. But seriously – already during the last term of office, what was universal military service was phased out, and now it is also prepared to give a manslaughter battle against the activities of the entire Marine Rescue Society by organising the large non-profit activities that 110 000 members are engaged in under the Swedish Armed Forces. I find it very difficult to see how this would be a signal to stimulate voluntary engagement. The argument was, I was told by Mikael Oscarsson, that the tax money should be spent best. But it's not tax money we're talking about. Had it been tax money that has been the driving force for the 2,100 lifeguards along the Swedish coast who go out and save lives in 70 or 75 percent of the stakes, it would have been another thing. It's not. These are people who, in their spare time, do an incredible job on a voluntary basis. On the contrary, I believe that it would be impossible to cope with this capacity in the public domain if we were to organise this in the hands of the Armed Forces or the municipalities. It is thanks to strong non-profit forces that you can do this. Then it may be true that no special authority is responsible for firefighting and rescue. That's because the municipalities are responsible. It is the municipalities that are responsible for civil protection in Sweden – I know that Mikael Oscarsson is aware of this. Then, of course, you should interact with the authorities that have special conditions for action. I note that in the last mountain rescue operation – Mikael Oscarsson mentions it – in Akkajaure the Swedish Maritime Administration took less than three hours in miserable terrain to locate the ship in place. Target is 24 hours. According to the Swedish Maritime Administration, there was no criticism from the National Board of Accidents. Surely it is also the case that good efforts are being made. And surely it is possible to ensure that an operation that was poorly managed during the previous government's time gets its papers in order. But I am very concerned about the balance between what is the state's tasks, what is the municipality's tasks and what can then be served by civilian and non-profit forces. It's incredibly important to protect. Then we should be able to stimulate cooperation by political means, but also encourage private and non-profit engagement in a good way. As Mikael Oscarsson has the opportunity to speak again, I would like to ask the question: Will the Christian Democrats or the Alliance drive a changed headship? If we were to end up in a post-election alliance government situation, I wonder: Does that mean that we will have a completely different headship in the future?
i-80557fd71d428056-320	Mr President, I would like to First of all, let me say that the non-profit sector means an awful lot. It's about sea rescue as well. What we are talking about now is how the state should put its money and how the state should be organized. We have seen in these reviews that the Swedish Maritime Administration is inappropriate as a principal when it comes to the operation of the helicopters. One example is that in mid-May all over 80 crew members wrote a letter to the government, to the Ministry of Industry, expressing their frustration at the poor organisation and saying that for safety reasons they did not have confidence in their managers and management at the Swedish Maritime Administration. An interesting question, to which I shall give the minister a chance to answer, is: Have you answered the crew? This was not answered when I checked it out a week or so ago. I think it is time for the Minister for Infrastructure to actually look forward himself instead of saying that it is someone else's fault. You're in charge. Time after time, it appears to be flawed. You're like a sieve when you use the tax money. It's strange to report it. You get criticism in one instance after another. And we're building a civil defense. Sweden faces major challenges. Is it not reasonable, then, to look at this – that not so many authorities should have helicopter responsibilities? Is it not reasonable to gather strength? In this way we can have a better effect and then we can also build a civil defence. The helicopter piece is very important. It's my message to the minister.
i-80557fd71d428056-323	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mikael Oscarsson, once again, for the commitment! It's strong. We may not draw the same conclusions, but I think it is important to constantly review the activities of the Swedish Maritime Administration. The Swedish National Audit Office has done so in a commendable way. The management that now exists at the Swedish Maritime Administration has, of course, to take account of and implement this. Answers will, of course, be given to the letter that has been received. It is currently being prepared in the Government Office. As Mikael Oscarsson knows, there is a court-martial process that is taken into account before speaking on certain issues. I note that I did not receive an answer to the question as to whether the Christian Democrats or the alliance parties will pursue the issue of changed headship. This worries me, not only me, but also 110 000 members of the Maritime Rescue Society and many other volunteers. That uncertainty I hope you can sort out soon, because it is an important signal to the people who spend their time and energy volunteering to save lives. Actually, that's what they do. We will continue to have good discussions about both the sea rescue and the work's area of responsibility in the future. I am convinced that we will see positive developments in the future.
