i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-0	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for approval of the reservations of the Swedish Democrats 1 and 6. First on the table today is the government proposal A new regulatory framework for the establishment of newly arrived immigrants in working and social life. I'll admit that when I started to look at the bill and read the opening words I thought it sounded pretty good. There is a need for systems of greater equivalence between the work of people who find it difficult to enter the labour market and other labour market policies. Equal treatment is needed whether it is someone who has recently come to the country or whether it is workers who have been here for a long time and who need extra support. But at a closer look at the concrete proposals contained in the bill, it turns out that they are really quite fundamental, comprehensive statements at the beginning and that the policy itself which is the effect of the proposal's proposals is not very different. It is still a question of considering that there should be a possibility of specific targeted aid, based in principle on how long you have stayed in the country. This is something that the Swedish Democrats have always turned against, and so here too. In addition, the proposal has been formulated in such a way that the main difference is that instead of some of the measures being regulated by law and thus partly governed by this House, they are now to be governed by government regulations, which we are strongly opposed to. Not only do you want to keep life in a system where, in principle based on ethnic origin and time in the country, you give various specifically targeted support that is only some granted, but you also want this to be governed directly by the government. The government should be able to decide for itself how much money will go to those who have just arrived in the country, money that cannot go to others. Apart from the fact that this is bad policy in itself, we believe that it opens up further mistrust of the government and the rulers. It would be a little better if it could at least go through Parliament, even if it was still bad. That is why our first reservation is that this is a proposal that could have landed well by removing the current regulations on start-ups but which unfortunately lands in something even worse than what we have today. We therefore call for the proposal to be rejected and we would like something better to come back. There are, as I was talking about, a lot of things in the proposal that ultimately keep life alive in a bad policy. It is totally untenable to have a system in which tax funds are reserved for only some citizens, something that could never be possible for others, especially when it is not even citizens, but people who have recently come to the country and the funds are not available to everyone who lives in our country. This is a form of discrimination that the Swedish Democrats can never accept. Tax funds should primarily go to Swedish citizens, and at all times they should always go to what we have in common. They should be open and accessible to all. To the extent that specifically targeted measures are to exist, they should apply to things that we may all encounter at some point. We will get into that in the debate on discrimination next. It is either about things that you cannot control yourself and that you are stuck in, such as gender, or about different types of functional variations that you can experience and that affect everyday life. These are not things such as access to certain subsidies depending on where you come from, while others do not. We see that it is still being kept alive in the possibility of providing various forms of support to those who are residing in the country without permission, something which is, of course, totally unsustainable and impossible. But there are also things that are good, in addition to the opening words about treating everyone equally. Thanks to the wordings contained in the bill, those who should be able to take part in, for example, social orientation are increased to a certain extent. Action on language, education and social orientation is maintained. That, of course, is something that everyone needs to take part in. To catch up with what has been missed by not going to Swedish school is positive. The Swedish Democrats have for a long time pushed for greater social orientation and Swedish education with broader content aimed at virtually everyone who comes to our country. There is a reservation, which I supported earlier, that the target group for social orientation and SFI should be further extended. This should in principle cover all those who come to our country, and there should be mandatory participation with some form of compliance and consequences if you do not follow through. I had hoped, although I knew it was not very likely, that at least some of the alliance parties would support this. They like to talk about the importance of demands for the pursuit of social orientation and sfi, for example, but there is no such support here. Before I finish, I would like to say a few words about one more of our reservations, although we are, of course, all behind them. It is a question of continuing to impose responsibility on Arbetsförmedlingen for the start-up efforts. We already have a majority in the committee to streamline the Employment Service's mandate or perhaps even look at what it should do at all. In our opinion, it is quite self-evident that the Public Employment Service, to the extent that it remains, should be a controlling authority that ensures the possibility of providing work. It should not be responsible for what is called establishment. Once again, I would have liked the alliance parties to have been able to support at least the realization that what the Public Employment Service is doing should be refined. The kind of policy that is called establishment is certainly not one of the tasks of the Public Employment Service. Having said that, Madam President, I supported what I wanted.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-19	Madam President, I would like Establishment efforts and social orientation are central to newcomers' opportunities to be included and get a foothold in our society. The public has a great responsibility to facilitate the establishment and inclusion of new arrivals, who in many cases lack the networks and knowledge about the Swedish labour market and society that are otherwise so important. The Left Party believes that the public's responsibility should go beyond what the bill we are discussing today allows by limiting the target groups of the Act on the Responsibility for Establishment of Certain New Arrivals and the Law on Social Orientation. The Government proposes, among other things, that those who have a residence permit on the basis of a connection with Swedish citizens or because of a connection with persons who were placed in a municipality six years ago or earlier should not be subject to the new regulations for establishment measures. This limitation is based on assumptions that people who are immigrants because of their relationship with a person who has been here for a long time receive the support they need from the affiliated person. This is a rather problematic assumption which does not take account of the fact that the aid may vary considerably. It is also in danger of strengthening a possible dependence on the situation between the one who just arrived and the one who has been here for a long time. It is well known that it is often women who are immigrant because of their connection to men. To deny these women an individual right of establishment would mean reducing the conditions for a more equal establishment in the labour market and in society as a whole. Both the bourgeois parties and the government parties often talk about the importance of women entering the labour market more quickly. Not infrequently, especially from the bourgeois side, this is followed by both the guilt and the suspicion of women. Ensuring that the new set-up framework covers all immigrants as a result of their affiliation is one way of supporting this group in gaining its own conditions and knowledge and in sharing and participating in all parts of society. We are referring to this in reservation 3, which I hereby support. I think that a feminist government should be particularly interested in ensuring that this includes other opportunities for meeting rights and opportunities in society. Madam President, I would like I would like to highlight another group that should be covered by the new regulatory framework on start-up efforts. This applies to those who have a fixed-term residence permit on grounds of non-execution. This is addressed in Chapter 5. Section 11 of the Aliens Act. These people are not covered by the Act on the Responsibilities of Establishment for certain newly arrived immigrants, as proposed by the Government. This is justified by the fact that their authorisation is temporary and therefore there is no reason to invest in their establishment. But the Finnish Immigration Service is questioning this assessment, and we are also doing so because the Finnish Immigration Service is granting an increasing number of residence permits on this basis. In addition, the length of the residence permits granted on this basis is longer than they used to be. The situation of the people for whom enforcement is possible is very uncertain and difficult. In some cases, this may last for a long time and put a great strain on the individual. In the meantime, employment and the desire to try to establish oneself in society can be the way to a functioning existence for these people. It can also be an asset to us as a society. The Left Party believes that this group should be included in the target group of the regulatory framework for establishment. Madam President, I would like This proposal extends the target group entitled to social orientation. That's very good. At the same time, we in the Left Party believe that this group could be further expanded. This is particularly true of the groups I have just spoken about. The Left Party believes that social orientation, like the establishment of new arrivals, should be the responsibility of the public, although the public cannot, of course, account for all the efforts required for the individual to enter society. The Government also considers that those who have immigrated because of a connection with a Swedish citizen are considered to be able to get the social orientation through their associate. But we do not think, once again, that the immigrant should be dependent on the associate person in order to gain basic knowledge of Swedish society. As in the case of the right of establishment, this is ultimately an issue of equality. The target group of the Social Orientation Act should therefore be extended to include all immigrants on grounds of affiliation. The same should apply to persons with fixed-term residence permits on the basis of enforcement obstacles. We believe that everyone living in Sweden should have the right to receive basic information about Swedish society – rights, obligations and opportunities. As with the reasoning on setting up, those who are granted a residence permit on the grounds of enforcement barriers may in many cases live in Sweden for a longer period of time. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-32	Madam President, I would like Many have longed for this proposal for a new regulatory framework for the establishment of newly arrived immigrants. It is about reducing unnecessary administration, increasing flexibility in establishment and increasing efficiency. There is the power, will and commitment to take advantage of people, their experience and knowledge and their work capacity. I often meet, just like all of you probably do, many who are passionate about doing a job for the establishment. The rural network led by LRF was recently here with us in the Riksdag and talked about its good work and its willingness to contribute to a good establishment. Amazing employment agencies work hard every day to get people to work, study and practice. S-fi teachers, social enterprises, non-profit associations, study associations equip people with knowledge and invite people to community and participation. Neither must the involvement of sports associations be forgotten. They are making great efforts for integration. Madam President, I would like Sometimes we paint the problems of establishment and integration so clearly that we do not see the forest for all trees. In fact, we have reason to look proudly around and look at all the good things that are done in our country and look at all the commitment. There is so much love and will to contribute. We must not forget that picture either when we look at the challenge we have. The trend is moving in the right direction and unemployment is falling. But, Madam President, unemployment is still so high that we are in no way satisfied. Not until it goes well for everyone who lives and lives in our country can we say that we have succeeded. The gap between foreign and domestic born has begun to narrow. But it is an unacceptable level of unemployment among foreign-born people, and massive action is, of course, required. Society needs to create even better conditions. But I also want to be clear about saying that in addition to the fact that society creates better conditions, everyone should contribute according to their ability. You should learn the language, complete your education and get the education that you lack in order to be viable in the Swedish labour market. You're supposed to take that internship or that job. There is no doubt about the responsibility of society, but also about the responsibility of the individual. No one is so far satisfied with the result after the establishment period. There are far too few people who go on to work, and even fewer people go on to education after their time in the establishment. The worst part is that we waste the experience and expertise that people carry when they come to Sweden. Action is therefore needed to seize people's opportunities. This proposal is an example of some important changes. Madam President, I would like We've seen a lot of students around us in the last few weeks. Back in Kristianstad, they ran out on Friday. Many white hats were thrown into the air that day. Many proud parents stood there and accepted their young ones. My partner was one of those who stood there and received his daughter. For our family and for Hanna, upper secondary school education was a pretty obvious step into life. But that's not the way it is for everyone who graduates. Some of those who threw their hat into the air were the family's first student ever. And some of those who threw the white cap into the air were the first in the family to learn to read and write. There we stood side by side and received our young people in the schoolyard. We had given them the same conditions to go out into adulthood with knowledge that opens the door to the labour market and opens the door to opportunities for livelihood, apartment contracts, car and travel. It is through work and through livelihood that you can realize your dreams. That's when you start your life. Madam President, I would like Those who did not get the chance to finish school with these conditions will be equipped now. They're gonna get their chance now. We know that knowledge is the way into the labour market. We know that the lack of trained staff is the reason why we in our country, while having a high level of unemployment, have 100 000 jobs that cannot be filled. It's knowledge that matters. It doesn't matter if you were born in Syria, Stockholm or like me in Kiaby. If you do not have education or sufficient knowledge for a job, you do not get it. Education is and remains the key to the Swedish labour market. Anyone who comes to Arbetsförmedlingen should receive an individual action plan and be assigned to the effort that is deemed to lead to a job or, if it is the best, studies. That plan is to be followed. In order to receive compensation, you must actively participate in the efforts necessary for you to get a job. There is order and order in the Swedish labour market, also in terms of education policy. We will focus on jobs from day one, adapting to the individual, increasing flexibility and reducing time-consuming administration. New arrivals, like other jobseekers, will receive an individual action plan and be assigned to the actions deemed to lead to work or studies. This report is another example of cross-block agreements. Moderates, center parties, liberals and Christian Democrats have come to an agreement with the government parties. It is good for Sweden, and it is good for integration. It is good for everyone involved, and it is good for the Swedish labour market. I support the proposal in the report.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-49	Madam President, I would like I can see that there were many fine words. There was a lot I could actually agree with, although I did not note any specific justifications for the need for grants and support measures that only some people can take part in instead of all those who do not have these training courses. I have two specific questions. One is linked to the fact that I would argue that this is not a fully thought-out proposal, given that it is already somewhat unclear in the current legislation what the concept of new arrivals refers to. However, there are at least some time limits for how this is done, so through some kind of circular reasoning it has been able to lead to a definition of how long you are new arrivals – namely as long as you could participate in the start-up efforts under current legislation. Now, there are no such regulations at all, but one has a concept that is not defined in any way. You want to move it all over to be governed by regulations. How, then, is the concept of new arrivals to be treated? Should the government look closely, when it suits, to determine how long you are new arrivals? There are concrete issues based on how this proposal is designed. It wants to contribute to a particular group but does not specify how that group is defined. That was one question. The second issue I have touched on in a similar debate in the Social Security Committee the other week – Maria Ferm, who is sitting here, will certainly recognise this. It is a question of extending the scope so that those who have temporary residence permits will continue to have access to these activities after the expiry of the residence permit, whether they have applied in good time or are looking for it at the last moment. As I said in that debate, when we visited the Migration Agency in the Social Security Committee, it was clear that – precisely because it knows that certain grants and support measures will expire if the residence permit expires – the current priority will be those dealing with renewal. However, if there is no such pressure, we run the risk that people who for some reason submit their applications late will again get caught up, because there is no reason to deal with their cases early. How do you think about this, Annelie Karlsson?
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-54	Madam President, I would like It does not surprise me that I am in a shift of line with Paula Bieler, but it surprises me that SD is opposed to more efficient administration and less bureaucracy. I am surprised that the Swedish Democrats think this proposal is a threat to the Swedish labour market. It is precisely the opposite, Paula Bieler. We are now adapting the assignment to the Swedish Public Employment Service so that these people are treated equally with the other job seekers. It's just the opposite. I'm thinking about how to read the bill we have on the table so different. This is exactly the case: it does not matter, but you must be treated equally in the Swedish labour market. When you come to Arbetsförmedlingen, it doesn't matter where you were born, but you should have the same conditions. That's the point. When you come, you have different conditions, and it doesn't matter where you were born. Then you should be dressed on what you need to be walkable in the Swedish labour market. It may be that you have no upper secondary education at all or inadequate upper secondary education, or that you have no experience with you. You get dressed on what you're missing, and you don't take into account where you're from. That's what's so clever about this bill and the change that's going to happen. This will make the work at Arbetsförmedlingen infinitely easier. That's why employers say, "Yes, at last!" .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. When employers say that this will make their work easier – that it will enable them to get people into work more effectively – I trust their assessment of the content of the bill rather than Paula Bieler, to be honest.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-58	Madam President, I would like I note that I did not receive an answer to any of the two specific questions I asked, namely: has there been any reflection at all on the fact that the legislation on the table does not define the concept of new arrivals? How is one to think about the fact that, regardless of when they submit their application for renewal, people will continue to be subject to the legislation and that it may therefore lead to them again ending up at the end of the queue with the Finnish Immigration Service? There is no reason to give priority to these cases any longer. We also have the fact that there is an unclear division of responsibilities. I might think it would be reasonable to have legislation in which, for example, one or two months are given before the residence permit expires – you can submit your application then this can continue to apply, because in that case it is the Migration Agency that has screwed up if it does not finish in time. But if you turn it in too late, it'll be on your own responsibility. I think it is reasonable to make some kind of requirement for those who are here to actually follow up and be aware of when their residence permit expires. The Migration Agency sends out reminders. I think it should be possible to ensure that no one who stays here without a valid residence permit has access to our welfare systems in this way and at those levels. It goes without saying to me that the welfare system and Swedish taxes should primarily go to citizens and to those who stay here with valid residence permits, i.e. those who have a confirmed reason to remain here. Having said that and with those issues still outstanding, if we are now looking to ensure that everyone is really treated equally and only base this on the conditions they have, we need no legislation on establishment at all. It is sufficient, of course, to ensure that the legislation governing labour market policy measures states that the person staying here, either as a citizen or with a valid residence permit, is covered. It would have been much easier, and it would have avoided all the criticism that is now being opened up and that actually persists in that, however you turn it around, there are reserved assets to go to those who are here only on residence permits – and also to those who are defined as new arrivals – and that the other citizens or immigrants cannot take part of them.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-63	Madam President, I would like Paula Bieler begins by saying that we will recognise the issue because it has been raised in a debate with the Social Security Committee in this House. That's exactly where it's supposed to be. As in previous debates, Paula Bieler tries to get this into a question of who should be here, who should not be here and what the residence permit looks like. It is not an issue we are dealing with here today, but now we are talking about new arrivals' right and the possibility of establishment and their ability to enter society. This is a completely different issue from residence permits. The SfU debates are therefore left to the SfU. Paula Bieler participates in them too, but try to keep this separate. Talk about migration where migration belongs and the establishment where the establishment belongs! I really think that Paula Bieler answers her own question right at the end by saying that it is stupid that we spend money. This is exactly what it is about when the Swedish Democrats are debating: can we really afford it? Are we really going to spend money on those who have come to our country? There we will always differ, because we will always have completely different views on why we have a policy of establishment and a policy of good integration. The Social Democrats and government parties – and in this case the bourgeois parties agree with us – believe that we need to equip people to become part of the Swedish labour market and society. That is why we equip them with both social knowledge and knowledge to enter the labour market. The Swedish Democrats and Paula Bieler are not interested in that. It is better to say as it is than to wrap it into words as if it were the deadlines that are the problem. For Paula Bieler, the problem is that people are here. The rest of the House agrees that we are here to equip them to become part of Swedish society. They are welcome here, but it is our responsibility to ensure that they establish themselves in the Swedish labour market.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-68	Madam President, I would like We are today debating the new regulatory framework for the establishment of newly arrived immigrants in working and social life. Much of Sweden is doing well today. This has been said many times in this House, including by me. We're in the middle of a boom. The companies in our country are generally doing very well. Those who have graduated from school with good grades and have done well will most likely get a job. Sweden has for a long time been high up in various measurements of how the economy is developing and how necessary reforms are being implemented. This was particularly true during the financial crisis and its consequences that followed in 2008. It should be a matter of course to create the conditions for more jobs and growing companies as well as strong incentives to work. It should be a matter of course to improve the chances of going from not having a job to having a job. It should be a matter of course that it should always pay more to work than not to work. These things should be self-evident, but unfortunately this has not always been the case, and it is not always the case today either. When we, together with the other alliance parties, were in government, we tried to work consistently on this basis. This attitude is also the basis for the proposals we are now making, of course adapting to what Sweden looks like today. So the country as a whole is doing well – most of them are doing well. However, many are not doing so well and are not doing so well. It is about those who are not on the labour market, who have never been there or who have a very long way to go. It is about those who have been left out in school, who have slipped wrong and ended up in a situation that has led to exclusion. It is about many of those who have come new to our country, for whom the thresholds for entering the labour market are very high. This is the new alienation. It affects those who have only for a short time, or never, been in the working environment. These are now approaching 1 million individuals, and every day they are getting further and further away from the labour market. A clear policy is needed for more jobs and more companies, where jobs are emerging, while at the same time lowering the thresholds into the labour market in various ways. Sweden needs more highly qualified jobs. We will compete with the help of cutting-edge technology and high skills. At the same time, we need more so-called simple jobs. These jobs, which we usually discuss, are not necessarily easy to carry out, but they place low demands on prior knowledge. Sweden has too few simple jobs. In combination with the fact that we have far too much alienation creates this problem. Madam President, I would like There is also a need for training measures and increases in skills. But the thresholds for the labour market are far too high for those with low education, who may have slipped aside or failed in school, who have come here with very low education or no education at all and who also lack our language. Then we need a workable policy. The government talks a lot and says it wants to solve the problems. I therefore welcome the fact that the government is now announcing that they want to see an education obligation. This is a moderate initiative presented two years ago. This is necessary, because integration does not work in Sweden. We need to improve it. It is too long before new arrivals come to work, and many unfortunately never do. Strong reforms are therefore needed in order for more people to be able to do their own thing. In particular, the requirements for self-sufficiency need to be increased. And of course it should always pay more to work than to live on benefits. These parts are carrying the Moderate plan for a stronger Sweden. The work line must be developed, not decommissioned. The main economic reforms of the Alliance government for more jobs were job tax deductions. They laid the foundations for many new jobs. In addition, new start-ups were an important part, as were other proposals that ensured that companies had better conditions and opportunities to hire more. Sweden is now facing a new situation, where, as I have said, many people are far from the labour market. In addition, there are many who have applied to Sweden who have both a low level of education and little or no knowledge of our language. This is a new form of exclusion compared to what we are used to and what we have seen in the past. As has been said, the groups affected by the new exclusion meet with far too high thresholds when they are going to take their first job. The Moderates therefore want to introduce a first job deduction that provides a clear tax relief for those with low labour income. We want to triple the successful RUT deduction. This has created many new jobs, to a large extent to people who have got their first job or who have got their first job in Sweden and to people who often have a low level of education. It is often a combination of people who have come here recently, many young and many women. We need a subsidy ceiling as part of that it should always pay to work, combined with more profitable work. There must be a requirement that the person living on a grant must also apply for a job outside the area where you live. The driving forces to move from grants to work should be clear. We want a job stimulus in the establishment allowance. This is intended to mitigate the marginal effects of short assignments and part-time jobs, for example, which are often the first way into the labour market. At the same time, we want to increase the requirements of integration, including integration obligations. Compulsory education for newly arrived adults who do not have primary education is important for both integration and gender equality. We want the requirement to learn Swedish to be a central part of obtaining a permanent residence permit. We also want social orientation to be something that is mandatory for real. As I said, we welcome the fact that the government is now responding to our proposal and is assuming that this education obligation is introduced as soon as possible. We also want to streamline today's many employment subsidies into a single one to simplify and improve. These are some of the amendments that we are proposing and which we hope the government will heed. After all, we have seen the proposals made by the government and the reforms that have been implemented. It's about fast track, trainee jobs, extra services and state emergency work. In total, if I'm not wrong, about 85 000 jobs were promised – it's probably soon gone to 5,000. Of the state preparedness jobs, there's only been a couple of hundred. Of the 20,000 promised additional services, there have been only about 3,200. As far as the trainee jobs are concerned, they had promised 32 000, but according to the latest figure I have seen – it could possibly have gone up something – it has become 567 jobs. There are more than 1,200 people in the nibble tracks. The fast track can of course be a good thing, but it is only to be noted that very few of those involved are registered in them today. In conclusion, Madam President, we support the report on improving integration by strengthening the establishment of newly arrived immigrants in working and social life. At the same time, we think that the government is proposing far too little. Therefore, together with the Alliance, we Moderates have chosen to give a specific opinion clarifying what we want to do to strengthen and improve the integration and establishment of newly arrived immigrants. With this, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal but, at the same time, formally endorse our particular opinion.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-101	Madam President, I would like This time, too, I intend to start with some general reflections. I find it sad to hear the talk about simple jobs and that we should make up data to match the workforce instead of ensuring that the tasks that exist in our country are what is needed and that we provide opportunities for those in our country to train and match these tasks. I think that would be a much more reasonable order. Having said that, I understand that it will be difficult to put forward counter-proposals if negotiations and compromises have been negotiated. When I read the special opinion, however, I reflect on the lack of certain things that the Moderates, in particular, have gone very hard on. For example, we now have a bill that addresses this with social orientation and language teaching, but I see nothing in the specific opinion that it should be mandatory or about any test to be passed in this context. I wonder why this is not being pushed further on this issue. It is certainly mentioned that it feels that the Public Employment Service should be discontinued in its present form, but it does not mention what it thinks about the fact that the Public Employment Service is explicitly entrusted with responsibility for these tasks under the current legislation. This is a step in the opposite direction to what at least I understand the Alliance wants. These were my two questions at this line shift.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-106	Madam President, I would like I think that, in general and also in my speech, it is quite clear what we Moderates want and what the Alliance wants together. There is no doubt about what we want with Arbetsförmedlingen. We've been very clear about that. At the same time, it would be unreasonable, when the Employment Service exists, if we were not to give it a directive. Now we are not in a government position and must, of course, conform to the situation. We have a vision of what we want to do if we have the opportunity to sit at the helm. Then we must make the best of the situation where we are today. With regard to the proposal we are discussing now, we think that there are good things in the proposal, but as I said, it deals with far too few questions. Much more would have to be done – that is our particular opinion, which in no way should be said to contain all the proposals of the Moderates or the Alliance. However, we clearly point out that we do not think that what is being done is enough. On a number of occasions, both here in this House and in joint alliance games or in each party, we have delivered quite a number of proposals on what we want to do, partly to strengthen policies so that jobs grow and grow, partly to increase the incentives for newcomers in Sweden to take a job and also to increase the demands for taking a job. Nevertheless, we have been relatively clear in our communication with what we want to happen and why.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-111	Madam President, I would like I can first point out that there is an opportunity to sit at the helm. Everyone in this country should be aware today that the Alliance could have been at the helm if they had only been willing to listen to those issues where we are prepared to give support and be aware that there is a non-socialist majority in this House. Having said that, I intend to dwell on the Employment Service. Christian Holm Barenfeld says here that as long as it exists it would be foolish not to let it be used. But no matter how you turn it around, there is a majority in favour of the Arbetsförmedlingen being either closed down or at least refined in its entirety. I find it extremely difficult to see that the majority will change after the next elections. Although there may be some jumping constellations of which form the government, it will continue to be a majority because the Employment Service needs to be redesigned in its entirety. In view of this, why do you think it is appropriate to impose new or reworded tasks on that authority, rather than taking the opportunity to find a working system for the tasks that, for my inexplicable reasons, you obviously think should exist? Why do you want to put it on an authority where we know that both now and in the future there will be a majority in order for it not to engage in that kind of mission?
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-114	Madam President, I would like I think, of course, that the Moderates should present their proposals and also the Alliance. It is very clear what we have proposed. We have also said from the Alliance that we think it is reasonable to move forward with a common budget. At the same time, I do not feel that there is a majority in favour of our proposals today. This is simply because we did not win the 2014 elections. Now we are doing everything we can to win the 2018 election in order to be able to make things right and get a good and responsible policy. In the question that I did not have time to answer in my first line, about the simple jobs, Paula Bieler clearly differs from the Moderates. We think we need more simple jobs. This does not mean that we should not have more highly qualified jobs, and that does not mean that we should not invest in training people. But the simple jobs are a good entry into the labour market for very many and often a first step in order to then be able to move on. Sweden generally has far too few easy jobs compared to many other countries. We can always discuss where different parties stand. However, when we see how Paula Bieler and her party colleagues are acting in Parliament on harmful tax increases and other things voted for, we can see that the distance between our parties in many areas is very great.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-118	Madam President, I would like Today, then, we are debating the report of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs 15 A new regulatory framework for the establishment of newly arrived immigrants in working and social life. The purpose of the Government's proposal is to make the legal framework for the establishment of newcomers more similar to that of other job seekers. Among other things, the proposal provides for the establishment of material provisions and individual entitlements to be laid down by regulation rather than by law, the removal of the right to an establishment plan and the replacement of the right to a labour market policy programme, and the introduction of a proportionate system of measures for newcomers similar to those currently in force for other job seekers. The processing of the establishment allowance is to be moved from Arbetsförmedlingen to Försäkringskassan. This is important, not least because criticism has been made of the lack of efficiency and unnecessary administration and also because we want to have as much system as possible. It is essential that we have a good establishment policy when the outside world looks like it does. People are forced to flee war and persecution. Yesterday, the UNHCR reported once again that the number of refugees in the world has never been greater. We have a responsibility to ensure that we build systems that work well both in times when there are many and in times when it will get. In Sweden and Europe, we see how the countries that are open to the outside world are also those that have strong economies and a good labour market. Germany and Sweden have the lowest unemployment rate and, at the same time, are the countries that receive many people in need of protection. Sweden has the strongest labour market in the EU, and there is no other country where such a large proportion of the population works as in Sweden. At the same time, the challenges are great when many people arrive in a country in a short time. More people need to get to work quickly and find a place to live. It is not acceptable that it takes many years for new arrivals to get a job, that people get stuck in benefit dependency, that people get stuck in crowded housing in vulnerable residential areas and do not get the opportunity to learn Swedish. Therefore, the establishment in Sweden needs to be improved even more. Historically, we have managed to grow well. Two decades after the Balkan War, we see that those who sought refuge in Sweden, who made Sweden their new home country, have established themselves to the extent that there are more of them who read further at the university than native Swedes. Among the children of the Balkan refugees, as many are employed as among children of native births. In recent years, the government has made significant improvements to the establishment of new arrivals. The Green Party and the government as a whole are working hard to streamline reception, improve establishment and shorten the way to jobs and studies for new arrivals. Short waiting periods and early intervention are key to this work. Many efforts are already being made to ensure that those who have arrived in Sweden can quickly learn Swedish, educate themselves or get their education validated earlier and enter the labour market faster. Sweden is already better equipped to cope with the establishment of those who have come here in recent years and those who will come forward than a few years ago, but there is, as I have said, much more to do. One of the biggest start-up reforms during this term is that all Swedish municipalities should now take responsibility and help with the reception of refugees. The aim of the reform was to achieve a more balanced distribution of the reception of new arrivals between the municipalities of the country and to ensure that municipalities that are well placed for establishment will receive new arrivals to a greater extent than before. For many asylum seekers who manage to get to Sweden, this means the end goal of an usually long and difficult journey. At the same time, it is the beginning of something new in the life you have decided to take care of and the future that you dream of building. People's ambitions and dreams can sometimes clash with the bureaucratic reality and the encounter with the new country. Long processing times and a passive waiting for decisions are often tiring. Living in uncertainty about what your future should look like and whether you will be allowed to stay or cannot adversely affect the asylum seeker's health and establishment. Therefore, the Green Party believes it is important that waiting for asylum decisions is made as short as possible and that asylum seekers are given the opportunity to get started with studies or work already during the asylum period. Early action is important to counteract passivity and facilitate establishment. The Government has also contributed more money to the Migration Agency to reduce processing times and decided on several measures to enable asylum seekers to get started earlier, such as skills mapping and Swedish from day one at asylum accommodations. But more needs to be done, and children's special needs need to be in focus. Another factor that counteracts rapid establishment and makes it harder for newcomers to focus on learning Swedish and getting a job is not knowing how your loved ones are, whether they are safe and when you will be able to reunite. It is therefore important that opportunities for family reunification are improved. Since the introduction of the Temporary Migration Act, the Environmental Party has been working to ensure that it does not apply to everyone who came before the law was announced and to open procedures at more embassies to enable more people from Syria to be reunited with their family. It has been very important for those who can now be reunited. The aim is for the law's restrictions on family reunification to be as short-term as possible. The Green Party believes that a holistic approach is needed for the reception and residence of asylum seekers, new arrivals and unaccompanied minors, as several actors are responsible for different aspects of the process. It is unfortunate that the establishment of asylum seekers and new arrivals is deteriorating because they need to change their place of residence on several occasions. There is a need for a more coherent reception that promotes rapid establishment in working and social life and a clearer division of responsibilities where people are not moved around and are forced again to leave the little security or connection they have had to create in the new country. The occurrence of diseases requiring care on arrival in Sweden has been greatly affected by experiences, traumas and risks to which the asylum seeker has been exposed during the flight. This, together with separation from family members, entails an increased risk of mental illness. At the Swedish Green Party's initiative, the government has therefore decided to invest SEK 40 million annually in 2017 – 2020 in health care and treatment for traumatized asylum seekers and new arrivals. The Government has also decided to establish within the National Board of Health and Welfare a national knowledge centre for issues related to unaccompanied minors. The aim is to disseminate up-to-date knowledge, successful methods and effective processes to the municipalities, county councils and responsible authorities that implement actions for unaccompanied minors. We have also implemented investments in housing construction, pupil health, education, fast track, extra services, strengthened SFI and native language education and much more. However, further measures are needed to improve establishment. At the last congress of the Green Party, we produced 50 proposals for better establishment concerning areas such as reception in the asylum process, establishment time, labour market policy, gender equality, segregation and unaccompanied minors. These are central issues for Sweden's development, and we constantly need to work to improve in this area. We are constantly taking great steps forward. One of them is what we are going to decide on today. We will continue to work purposefully on this. I support the committee's proposal.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-140	Madam President, I would like As I was on earlier, Maria Ferm and I basically had the same line shift a few weeks ago. Contrary to what Annelie Karlsson tried to say, this concrete legislative proposal includes wordings on who is covered by the new legislation. It stipulates that it also applies to newly arrived immigrants who have had a residence permit and who, within the period of validity of the residence permit, have applied for a new or continued permit, i.e. those who do not currently have a valid residence permit. That is why I am raising this issue here too. My question from a few weeks ago remains. Given what the Migration Agency's administrators themselves have said and the great burden that we know is on the Migration Agency, do you at all see the risk of writings like this being freely presented to the Migration Agency to place applications for renewal far down in the pile? After all, they are no longer as acute as those who once had a residence permit will continue to be subject to all the regulations that are now available. Given the Green Party's starting point, it risks leading to more people staying in the country without knowing how long they will be allowed to do so and without knowing what status they have. Do you see the risk at all? When we visited the Migration Agency, they were clear that because it is urgent and many things will disappear, they intend to prioritise applications for renewal. However, with the kind of legislation contained in this proposal, there will no longer be any reason to do so.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-145	Madam President, I would like I thank Paula Bieler for the question. Although we discussed it a few weeks ago, it is still interesting how we think about it. I believe that the long processing times are the basic problem. If we reduce processing times, neither this nor the long time for those seeking asylum for the first time will be a particularly serious problem. This is where we need to put the gunpowder. The Migration Agency is working intensively to reduce processing times to normal levels. It is estimated that all those who arrived in 2015 will have their cases settled during the year. Already in the autumn we will see more normal processing times. This is a priority, and it is a matter of ensuring that the Migration Agency has enough trained staff and resources. I expect this to be something that will be evident in your shadow budget for the autumn. Unlike you, I am not at all concerned that people will wait with their extension applications to the last second. It is, of course, a problem that people live in uncertainty without a temporary residence permit, so we want to cut this time as much as possible. But an even greater problem is the risk of falling out of the start-up measures in the meantime. Then you are forced to move to an establishment home again and have to cancel language instruction, practice and other things to start over, move back and start everything again a few months later. The basic issue, however, is that we need to reduce the length of proceedings even further. If we do, we do not have to worry about these different consequences in the same way.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-152	Madam President, I would like My criticism is multiple. In principle, it would be reasonable to have a time limit for applying for renewal. One should not be able to wait until the last moment, no matter what contribution it is about. You submit the application in good time before an extension becomes necessary. There should be limits to when it is personal responsibility and when it is the responsibility of the authority that it has fallen, with different consequences thereafter. I still wonder: what will be done to ensure that processing times do not skyrocket? The Migration Board is overloaded, and there is no evidence of catching up in the foreseeable future. There were long processing times even before we had the large recipient numbers in 2015. If you do not regulate the Migration Agency's responsibility to handle these applications within a certain period of time, I find it difficult to see that the Migration Agency will prioritise them. I see a real risk that priority will be given to those who are present in the country and where there has not even been an initial assessment. Then we will have a large number of people who are staying in the country without a valid residence permit because they have had it in the past. This leads to the erosion of temporary legislation. The point of the time limit is to be able to evaluate if the need persists. If no such evaluation is carried out and the people remain in the system, the whole idea behind the temporary legislation will be undermined. It also means that the people who are staying here will be in limbo when it comes to knowing whether they will remain in the country or not.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-157	Madam President, I would like The Finnish Immigration Service says that it is estimated that the processing times will be able to go down to normal levels during the year. Previously it was three to five months, and it would be great if it came down to that level. They also work to streamline their processes. This applies both to asylum applications and to other processes, such as work permits, where waiting times are also long. If you can work in a different way in these processes, it can have positive effects on other types of permits to be renewed. The problem of long processing times has arisen partly because there were many people who came in 2015 and partly because temporary residence permits have been introduced for a limited period of time. Renewal applications need to be handled and create even longer queues, because individual assessments of renewal applications also need to be made. Despite the fact that we have introduced temporary residence permits for long-term protection needs that are not deemed to be over for the foreseeable future, they still need to be renewed, and then we need to re-examine the applications. Otherwise, it is a policy to pursue that permanent residence permits reduce the handling of the Migration Agency. Otherwise, I think it is important in the future to try to prioritise applications from children. It is particularly problematic if children have to wait for a long time, and mental illness is even more difficult for children to deal with. It is also about uncertainty and that the connection to the country becomes stronger if you are younger. I would like to see a change there.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-161	Madam President, I would like The Center Party welcomes the Government's bill that forms part of the settlement on migration between the Government and the Alliance parties from October 2015. It is a question of replacing the right to an establishment plan with instructions for labour market policy measures, of new arrivals being met by a system equivalent to that of other jobseekers and of transferring the management of the establishment allowance to the Social Insurance Agency from the Employment Service. Since we believe that the Government's proposal is a step in the right direction, we have chosen not to raise any counter-proposals, and we support the Government's proposals. However, we see a greater need for action in this area than the government does. We also have in the Migration Agreement to extend the career introduction contracts to companies without collective agreements. The investigation is ongoing, but it takes a little longer. This is serious, because it is a worthwhile and a taking in a negotiation. Even where concessions are made, it is a matter of actually delivering. We are still waiting for suggestions on how it can be resolved. The proportion of new arrivals going to work or regular studies after the start-up period is too few. I think we all agree on that. In addition to the proposals that involve organisational changes, the Center Party feels that there is a lack of reforms that would lead to greater opportunities for more people to enter the labour market. All efforts that complementary actors deliver to Arbetsförmedlingen are now falling in number, despite the increasing number of people entering AF with an establishment plan. We see that companies are restructuring right now and asking for applicants with lower qualifications, but Arbetsförmedlingen does not deliver the applicants that are requested. We had the Director-General visiting the committee, and I asked why efforts were being reduced. The answer from the Director-General was that it is being analysed. To the question when the analysis is complete, it was a floating answer that he could not explain it. To why it was not sent out ten but only three applicants to a company that wanted to recruit ten people with lower qualifications was the answer: we make mistakes. I fully understand that you can't always know exactly why changes are taking place, and it's clear that as long as there are people working in the business there can be mistakes – but there are a little too many mistakes, and that means that there is great pressure on the government to actually deliver. Arbetsförmedlingen is the work responsible for these issues. We do not have the time or the ability to do so in any other way at the moment, and it is important that we actually deliver in this area. The gap between native and foreign born is growing more and more as new arrivals from the refugee wave in 2015 will establish themselves in the labour market. The unemployment rate of natives is negligible 4 per cent, while that of foreign-borns is 22 per cent. Right now, the labour market is hot. Something that we know is that after the boom comes recession. That's why I and many people with me push on and say that there must be a workshop inside the Arbetsförmedlingen to get more people into work. Internal change must not take all the power. There is a need for clearly improved results. This requires an increase in the quality and flexibility of the start-up efforts. Resources must be directed towards actions that actually produce results. Yesterday I was able to read on text television on the train here about another half a billion to the municipalities together with big swinges against municipalities and county councils because they do too little. They offer from government wages that are financed to 100%. In addition, compensation for wrist support plus a bonus for each additional service set up. In some parts for this my thoughts to old-time pauper auctions. There are many people who warn that the chances of a continuation after such an effort are not being strengthened or that the regular labour market is being completely destroyed. Last autumn Mikael Damberg was commissioned by the Prime Minister to help with this with so-called simple jobs. We had to think new, was the title of the interview with Damberg. Is it these extra services that are fresh thought? Another way to think-- this is a tip to the government-- is to think about which reforms have worked. With reduced cost pressure, companies have hired more. The RUT reform is one example and the restaurant VAT is another. The reforms have been about creating better conditions for industries that can and want to expand. Another tip is to reduce the cost of work. Basically, that is where the basic problem lies. But there's no sign of it. The government recently announced a series of measures to improve performance. It was a clear criticism from the Minister for Labour, but how will those measures solve the problems that are not knocking on the door but are already in the driveway? Madam President, I would like There is much more that we in the Center Party want. We see a need for labour market reforms that can clearly improve and strengthen the conditions in the Swedish labour market. However, on the issues raised by this report, I am in favour of the report's proposal and promise to continue pushing the government to ensure that everything that can and must be done is also done to support people in employment and to meet the companies' great needs for labour now that we have a very strong boom.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-177	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. This is an issue which has been addressed within the framework of the migration policy talks conducted by the government and the alliance parties a year and a half ago. It is not entirely unknown that the extreme parties in this House – the Swedish Democrats on one side and the Left Party on the other – do not support this. But there is broad agreement on this in the responsible and pragmatic part of this Assembly. The establishment reform that was created during the alliance government a number of years ago is basically good – it has a job focus and aims to get a labour market start for newcomers – but there are some things that need to be improved to make the establishment better and more efficient. So there are some things in this that this report addresses on the basis of the proposal put forward by the government in the spring. For example, if a person is part of the establishment and a lot of things then change, it can be difficult for the establishment manager to change the establishment plan. These are the things that this simplifies, as well as the processing of the compensation being taken over by Försäkringskassan. The important starting point in this is that the establishment assignment and participation in the establishment does not mean that you should be on some kind of isolated island within the Swedish system, but establishment allowances and other things and the assignment must be harmonised with the other legislation. In the past, the establishment has had its own legislation and regulation. It will continue to do so, but more is now being steered into the form of regulations. Liberals think this proposal is a good one. This is based on the views expressed by the agency itself, Arbetsförmedlingen. The Swedish National Audit Office has also had some views on how to improve the commission. At the same time, the Swedish National Audit Office is clear that it should not make too extensive changes, as it risks having a negative impact on the establishment. The Liberals are therefore in favour of this. We, together with the other alliance parties, nevertheless have a special opinion, because we believe that this is inadequate. Although it is a step in the right direction, it is insufficient, given the enormous challenges that Sweden has in breaking segregation, exclusion and stigmatisation. There are too many people living in alienation today. And many new arrivals do not enter the labour market. Our view is that the government is doing far too little. We need to look at our forms of employment. Substantial changes need to be made in relation to the employment agency's assignments and work and a number of other things. I do not speak as long as the other speakers, but of course I get the most important thing in any case.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-185	Madam President, I would like This is an important issue. And I will be in favour of the proposal in the report. We Christian Democrats are behind this, but we have also written in a special opinion that we have many other proposals in relation to establishment. We believe that more is needed than this proposal does. But we support the proposal. We think it's good. This means that the right to an establishment plan is replaced by an instruction in a labour market policy programme. And the aim is to equate the group currently covered by the law with other job seekers. We think that's a good thing. We Christian Democrats see the proposal as a way forward, in order to speed up the establishment of the Swedish labour market. And that is absolutely necessary, both in order to respond to the labour shortages that we are now beginning to see seriously and to reduce exclusion and gain more in self-sufficiency. We believe that what the government is doing to get newcomers to work is not working well enough. It has proposed extra services, trainee jobs, standby jobs and other things that politicians can make up. We believe that it would be better for companies to have the opportunity to employ themselves in a simple way, without all the hassle it entails that the Employment Service should be involved in the labour market policy programmes. We had two proposals in our budget last autumn that we want to highlight in this debate. One is the asylum programme we are proposing. The establishment must start even earlier than when a residence permit decision has been issued, as the government proposes here. We know that many asylum seekers want to get started as early as day one. They may not be granted a residence permit, but we still believe that we must not allow time to pass by inaction in an asylum accommodation. It's a waste of human resources. We therefore believe that every asylum seeker, whether living in an asylum accommodation or in his/her own accommodation, should receive a first call within two weeks from arrival in Sweden. We believe that every asylum seeker should conclude a contract with the public in connection with the asylum application. The contract shall be for six months. The plan is that the programme should cover eight hours a day, five days a week. Today, various language cafés and different types of Swedish education are offered through voluntary organisations. But we believe that SFI should start right from the start, with 15 hours a week. Nine hours a week you should have social orientation. So this is mandatory. It is an obligation to participate in teaching about rights and obligations in Swedish society. In return for food, shelter and daily allowance, the asylum seeker must also be available 16 hours a week for the labour market. For those who do not find their own work, organised employment should be offered. Organised employment may include cleaning, cooking or caretaker services in the asylum accommodation in which you live. The municipality and non-profit associations can provide organised employment, and social enterprises can be involved. There are, of course, reasons for exemption, for example because of disability or illness. If the asylum seeker does not participate in the programme, the daily allowance is deducted. And if the asylum seeker receives a regular job, he will receive a free amount of SEK 3 000 which the individual can earn per month before the daily allowance is reduced. This is a way to start early, from day one. You have to start earlier than today. The proposal that is on the table today is therefore a good one, but more is needed. Another of our more important proposals – we have two in particular – in addition to the asylum programme are introductory positions. It takes too long for newcomers to enter the labour market. It must be possible for everyone to get a job and work 100% of their ability. With our proposal on introductory positions, we challenge the dominant idea that jobs should be created in the Swedish labour market through the Employment Service. Yesterday, Teknikföretagen på radio talked about a proposal similar to that of Christian Democrat. That's interesting. Employers are in four out of five cases small businessmen who run their businesses with pain, sweat and joy. Jobs are big decisions but also necessary in companies that experience growth. In this situation, it is not possible to emphasise enough the value of fewer rules and less hassle. New start jobs are a step away from the need to be anxiously complicated to match between employers and employees and guide us on the proposal for introductions. We therefore propose the new form of introductory employment. This means that you get a starting salary that is 75 per cent of the minimum salary or entry salary according to collective agreements. The employment is just like a regular job, not like the trainee jobs and those that are not open-ended contracts. The only difference is that the starting salary is 75 per cent of the minimum wage or entry salary according to a collective agreement. 25% of working time is training for which the employer is responsible, in consultation with the employee. During the introductory period, LAS is covered by the Employment Protection Act. And an introductory position can last a maximum of five years. Madam President, I would like Introductory employment is not a labour market measure. It is no bureaucracy, no employment agency, no age limits, no hassle, no support and no cost to society in the form of new subsidies. Just let employers and employees find each other, and make it easier to enter the labour market! However, the initial employment shall not cover professions requiring post-secondary education or where the minimum salary exceeds SEK 22 000. For reasons of competition, employers should not be able to have more introductory employees than ordinary employees. Swedish working life needs to be changed if we want to avoid large groups being excluded. A form of employment based on trust in the employment agreement between employees and employers provides the conditions for coping with the challenge facing Sweden. Madam President, I would like Now we must do everything we can to get new arrivals to work quickly. We all get that. This proposal is a way forward. But we Christian Democrats believe that more is needed. There is a need for less bureaucracy, less red tape and more opportunities for employers, workers and newcomers to find each other in new forms of employment.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-204	Madam President, I would like I wasn't really planning on asking for a line, but I did it anyway. I reacted to Désirée Pethrus saying that you should have efforts early, from day one. From the point of view raised by Mrs Pethrus, I understand how you think. The sooner you can get started, the less passivity, the more chance you can get in quickly. It is one thing that there are opportunities for voluntary participation in various measures, for learning, for civil society to be involved and so on. But if our common tax funds are going to go to efforts for people, before it's even decided if they're staying here for a valid reason, then it rhymes a little bad for me. We must deal responsibly with our common resources. There is also a risk of being a pull effect where it is more damaging, that people have a further connection to the country and then get rejected. Tax funds have gone to people who have never had any reason to come here at all. Would it not be better to invest the extra resources in faster management so that it can be made clear as early as possible who will stay in the country and who will not be allowed to stay? After that, any efforts can be directed at those remaining in the country.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-209	Madam President, I would like I can understand that question. We have also discussed it in a Christian Democrats working group. How do we weigh this? Is it better that a person is waiting for a residence permit and does not get any kind of connection or any opportunity to enter the Swedish labour market? At the same time, there is a need for labour. Many people can and want to work their way into Swedish society. That possibility exists today. The alternative is that the person is rejected and then allowed to go home. Then you have to apply for permission to come here as a labour immigrant, which increases the hassle even further. Now there have been extremely long waiting times, and they have still not been able to graze. However, we still have the costs of the person staying here during the asylum procedure. If you get a rejection before the six months, of course, you can go home. When you then enter the start-up phase and enter the labour market, you lose the motivation to start with SFI and stick to it. If you learn the language directly when you get here, it is much easier to get into an establishment phase later, if you have not been able to get a job already during the asylum process. In some way, both society and the individual benefit from faster establishment through the asylum programme. I'm sure the benefits outweigh the disadvantages.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-214	Madam President, I would like Of course it is possible to reason that way. An example was mentioned of leaving the country to apply for a work permit from another country. That is why we have the legislation that we have today. It should not be possible to use the pretext of seeking asylum in order to circumvent the rules on labour immigration, for example, here on the ground. We shall have regulated immigration according to the rules that we have. With the proposal put forward by the Christian Democrats, incentives are increasing to circumvent that system. There is nothing that prohibits people from learning Swedish, studying, connecting and having meetings with civil society. Today there are countless apps to learn and practice in Swedish. I see a very big difference between that and actively deploying common resources, tax funds, on measures aimed at people where it is not yet clear whether they have gone to Sweden for the correct reason or not. I think we should be careful about the signals sent out by the state and responsible politicians about how we use our resources and what we think about the regulations that we have. That's where we'll be clear. I think everyone here agrees that we should have regulated immigration, even if we have different views on how to regulate it. Then we must also stand up for these regulations. To invest resources in people where it is not yet clear whether they have complied with the rules or not, I can only call irresponsible, unfortunately.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-218	Madam President, I would like One can certainly have the attitude of letting people decide for themselves whether they want to participate in social orientation, in SFI and so on. What we are doing in this programme is saying that it is mandatory. You can't opt out of it. We think that is important. Today, several hundred million out of the budgets are being spent in order for people to have access to SFIs through voluntary organisations and to social orientation. We have supported this investment in the Government's budget. The costs are enormous during the asylum search period. Why not, for example, make more demands on asylum seekers? We believe that the requirements must be higher. When you're in an asylum home, it should be tougher. One should not be able to sit and be completely passive. Work prevents many opportunities for sin, says the Bible. There's a lot in it. It was very messy in asylum homes when there were a lot of asylum seekers there. Many sat in passivity and one felt frustration. Instead, let us use people's power for change during the asylum process! There are so many advantages to our proposal that they outweigh the disadvantages. There is already money in the budget allocated today. Many say that language cafés are great, but you can't learn in a good way. Some SFIs say that you learn the wrong way during the asylum process. Instead, let us do it right from the start! Then we have also said that we need faster decisions. Then those who do not have the right to asylum can be rejected more quickly. A number of different proposals are needed, one of which we believe in.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-223	Madam President, I would like Today's Swedes have their roots in different parts of the world, in different parts of Sweden too, of course, but also in many other countries. Many are born and raised in another country, others have parents who are born in another country but are perhaps born here. We see them all around us. There are people with different roots in our workplaces, in our residential areas, in children's school classes, in our associations, in the Swedish Parliament and everywhere. Sweden has for a long time received people who were born in other countries and who have successfully established themselves and are a well-integrated part of Sweden today. When you see it, you can imagine that there must have been a good system to ensure that people can get into society and become as well-functioning a part of society as many people are today. But that is not the case, on the contrary. When you look at how we accept people who are going to establish themselves in Sweden, it is strikingly many that are coincidences. There are many enthusiasts and much that are projects, ad hoc and something that has just become. Of course, it is a strength that there are so many people who act in various ways to help people establish themselves in our country. As politicians, we must also see that there are shortcomings that need to be addressed. Better systems are needed to systematise so that not only some manage to establish themselves. Everyone should be able to establish themselves in society and become a part of Sweden. Now we have a situation in Sweden with major shortcomings in the labour market. There are many jobs that cannot be filled. We have probably all read in the newspapers and heard of success stories where some employer by chance managed to find just the right skills in an asylum accommodation or in some other way. These are, of course, happy stories. At the same time, it's like finding a needle in a haystack. We must systematise the work of putting the right person in the right place, so that the whole of Sweden is involved in taking responsibility for the establishment of new arrivals. Now, for over a year, we have had new legislation in place to ensure that all municipalities receive new arrivals. It's the law that actually works. We are now moving forward with proposals for changes for the establishment of the labour market. Madam President, I would like Sweden provides residence permits and protection for refugees, and this is obviously based on asylum grounds. It is an act of solidarity based on fundamental humanistic values. We provide protection when they flee hell and persecution. That is why. But once people are here and have received their residence permit, it goes without saying, the government says, that we should put them to work. Everyone who can work should work. This system must be much more effective. We political parties have different views on how to put people to work most effectively and how to shape labour market policies most effectively. It is natural that we have different views on this. Much of the political debate is about and should be about this, and then voters take a stand on it in elections. I was going to refrain from polemics about it in this particular debate, because I would also like to say that it is very good that we have a broad majority in favour of the basic rules of the game, regardless of the fact that we also have different views on how labour market policy is to be conducted. We therefore have a broad majority in favour of the basic rules of the game and for what is laid down in the bill and the new legislation that Parliament will soon support. However, one party differs in this debate and in its position, namely the Swedish Democrats. They obviously want a Sweden that is shrinking, with an ageing population that is becoming smaller and smaller. We're getting smaller and older. The labour market and the economy are becoming smaller and welfare is being retreated. Why else would they be so against putting new arrivals and new Swedes to work? The Swedish Democrats have an obvious unwillingness to take advantage of the labour force and the working capacity of the new arrivals. Today we have a situation of labour shortages. I meet employers if not daily at least several times a week. It is about both private and public employers. The very overshadowing and biggest problem – they have some other problems too – is the shortage of labour and getting skilled staff to the vacancies they have so that they can grow at the pace they want and that Sweden needs. The government and a large majority here in the Riksdag want and believe that you should help people get to work and that you should help employers get the right staff. People should be equipped and labour market policy developed in different ways so that we can find the meeting where employers can recruit staff with the right skills and where people can get to work as soon as possible. We have a slightly different view of how this is to be done, but we have a broad majority for it to be done and for this to be an important task. The Swedish democrats therefore differ and do not want to do so. They seem to regard it as an undue advantage when people are put into work and seem to consider it a luxury activity when someone is enrolled in the Employment Service. I wish it were, but I have met few unemployed people who are enrolled in the Employment Service and who think that this is the height of prosperity. If you do not want to equip new arrivals to enter the labour market, you are failing employers' needs and Sweden's opportunity for economic growth. We have a shrinking Swedish-born workforce. The entire addition consists of people born in other countries. Ensuring that new arrivals come to work in our country is an absolutely crucial issue. The Swedish Democrats also want to pass on costs to the municipalities. In addition to cutting resources to municipalities by 10 billion in their draft budget, they also want the state to withdraw responsibility for the supply and instead pass additional costs on to the municipalities. It is therefore a double blow to municipalities in the form of staff shortages when you do not equip new arrivals to be able to work in the important areas where there is a shortage of staff, and by removing resources and adding new costs to the municipalities. It is clear that the Swedish Democrats have a self-produced view of economic policy that is not based on reality. Prosperity and resources are created by work. Any person who is not in work but who can work is a waste of human resources and with economic opportunities for our country. Madam President, I would like The former bourgeois government presented the Act of Establishment now in force. It came into effect in 2010. It contained many elements that I and the current government support. It was a welcome focus on jobs. It was good to transfer responsibility from municipalities to the Public Employment Service. Evaluations show that it was good to have a clear job focus from the first day. It was good to introduce an individual remuneration that is not family-based or needs-driven, but clearly provides incentives for the individual – and that also women have the same incentives as men – to participate in the business. Some things were less successful, such as the start-up slots that are no longer there. In the proposal put forward by the bourgeois government, the rights of the individual were clear. What we now have to consider is the individual's obligations. Now we are opening up to be able to make clear demands on the individual. The existence of a balance between obligations and rights is an important part of a functioning labour market policy. The individual should of course have both rights and obligations, and they should be balanced. With the legislation that I hope the Riksdag will now support by a large majority, this means that we will be able to make clear demands on all individuals who are enrolled in the Employment Service in a similar way. This means that you can make demands on what activities people should participate in, and it also means that if someone does not participate or misses, there are sanctions to apply in the same way as for all the other unemployed. I think this is a welcome and good tool. This is also an important prerequisite for the introduction of an education obligation. The new legislation will make it possible to impose training requirements once the law is in place. You can then make demands for the individual to train. But it is also important, Madam President, that the government invests heavily in education and training opportunities. Rights and duties shall be balanced against opportunities and responsibilities.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-246	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying to the Minister for Employment that she is very happy to read our overall draft budget. In this it is well justified how we can reduce certain costs that unfortunately need to be carried out in the municipalities with the policies of the other parties and the government. With our policy, these costs would not be necessary, and so we can make some cuts. In the end, municipalities still have more to move around with. I would also ask the Minister for Employment to listen, for example, to the speech I made when the Social Security Committee debated labour immigration the other week. It goes without saying that exchanges of competence have always taken place and will continue to take place, both permanently and more temporarily. The problem, however, is that hello game mixes different kinds of migration and motives and how to deal with it all. The skills of those seeking protection in our country do not match our needs. You could wish that were the case, but unfortunately that is not the case. What we are opposed to is not making efforts to ensure that those who are in our country reach a level of competence that is needed here, but we are opposed to the existence of targeted support, subsidies and efforts that can only be given to those who have recently arrived here. Overall efforts to raise the skills of our country for all those outside the labour market would be one thing, but when you specifically target those who have recently come here there will be problems. Having said that, I now come to my question, which I have also asked before. It is a concrete question, and it is only the one to which I now want answers. This legislation does not define the concept of new arrivals. So far there has been no definition, but it has been possible to find some kind of definition through circular reasoning. How long does the government believe that people should be classed as new arrivals and thus subject to this legislation? I can't find a definition of this.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-250	Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that the skills of those in need of protection do not match the vacancies that exist. That is not why you get asylum in Sweden; you get asylum here because you have a need for protection. But when people have been given asylum because of protection needs, it is a headless policy, I think, not to want to equip these people to take the job vacancies we have in this country. We have now received the addition of an enormous number of people – young people – who we well need in the labour market. However, several of them do not have the skills required for the job vacancies. Then there is a broad majority in the Riksdag that thinks it is reasonable for the state to take responsibility and make demands on the individual to participate in order to take on the skills and be matchable in the labour market. The Swedish Democrats differ by not wanting to take that responsibility and doing those efforts to equip people who come to Sweden to take the job vacancies. There is no other definition in this legislation of new arrivals than in previous legislation. It's the same way. If you read the bill, you can see that we have made no change to this. You are covered by the Act of Establishment for a maximum of 24 months from the time you are admitted.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-253	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I hope that this will be clearly stated in regulations and so on, because there is no regulation anywhere now either. No, Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson, we do not think that we should invest in those who have the right to reside in the country by providing them with training and making various efforts for them. What we are opposed to is the separation of these efforts from other labour market policies. We have talked countless times about, for example, our proposal on apprenticeships, which is to some extent similar to various other proposals that have been put forward here. It is an excellent way for people to build on the skills they bring from their former home country, show it in practice and translate it into skills adapted to the Swedish labour market. It is an excellent way to both contribute to a faster validation of knowledge and enter the labour market. We have talked about the importance of social orientation, which should be compulsory and inclusive, and the importance of language education, which should also be compulsory and inclusive. We have talked about the fact that the efforts that exist on the Swedish labour market should be able to cover everyone who has the right to reside in the country, who has a residence permit here or who is a citizen here. The problem we see is that we are making specific efforts for a group and putting a group against a group. That is what the politics of the other parties do. It is felt that those who have recently arrived in our country should have special support and a special right to tax money that pays a certain part of the employer's contribution, while those who have been excluded from the labour market for other reasons around our country should not be given the same opportunity. That is when groups are set against groups and they create contradictions, and that is what we are opposed to – not to equip those who are in our country legally and to help us in the foreseeable future to equip ourselves for our labour market.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-258	Madam President, I would like What Paula Bieler is saying is not true. We have on Parliament's table a bill on equal treatment. It is not that you have access to entirely different possibilities for assistance if you are newcomers compared to other unemployed people. On the contrary, the government has systematically made equal treatment. Whatever the reason for being far removed from the labour market, various labour market policies have been made available. There are some differences, and this is exactly where Paula Bieler says it should be mandatory for everyone. Then what's everybody? Should it be mandatory for everyone with Swedish education, regardless of whether you already speak Swedish or not? Should it be mandatory for everyone with a social orientation, even if you have attended Swedish school during twelve years of your life? I do not think so. I think it is reasonable that we should give special treatment in some respects, such as language and social orientation. It is natural to do so, because those who are born in Sweden and whose mother tongue is Swedish do not have those needs. We have other options. The proposal that the Swedish Democrats will now vote against means that we should have more equal treatment between new arrivals and other unemployed people in terms of the requirements we make, the opportunities we provide and our follow-up to the individual's obligations and rights.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-261	Madam President, I would like Colleagues and TV viewers! In this speech, I will be unusually united with the Government. I think it is good that we have managed to agree on proposals to strengthen and improve the establishment and integration of our new arrivals in Sweden. It is therefore also gratifying, I think, that the government and Ylva Johansson want to implement the moderate proposal on education. I hope this happens quickly. I would just like to ask Ylva Johansson: What is the timetable for education for the government and Ylva Johansson? It's important that it gets started. I have highlighted in the debate that we think this is a good thing but that it should happen more. You should take more steps. I outlined a number of the proposals made by the Moderates and also by the Alliance. What reforms does the Government see in the future to strengthen the labour market in general and above all to increase incentives and strengthen opportunities for newcomers to enter the labour market – in addition to trainee jobs, extra services, preparedness jobs and fast track? These measures are good to varying degrees. The fast track we think is good. Perhaps the others we do not think are brilliant, and the delivery has perhaps been weaker than anyone had in mind within the Government Office. Are there any more suggestions in Ylva Johansson's drawer for how the jobs could be more and for how the companies would like to hire more?
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-264	Madam President, I would like Let me take the last question first! We have a workable job growth policy and a demand among employers to hire more. That's exactly what works. We intend to continue on this line, with economic policies and investments that prove to be very successful in terms of strong job growth and more companies that want and can employ. As far as labour market policy is concerned, the main focus is to ensure that you can hire, that is to say, that we equip people so that there are people with the right skills to employ. I have had several discussions with Christian Holm Barenfeld about this before. Trainee jobs were a proposal that was made when we were in opposition. The bourgeoisie ruled, and we had very high youth unemployment. Now we don't have it anymore, because the kids have got regular jobs. Then they shouldn't have a trainee job. There is no intrinsic value in sitting in a labour market policy effort if you can get a job without support, which is obviously better. Madam President, I would like The proposal on education, which the Moderates put forward, is a good proposal that the government wants to implement. The plan is to be able to do so as soon as we have new legislation in place. The proposal is for the new law to take effect on 1 January. This means that the legal conditions are in place for the introduction of an education obligation. Then you should also be honest and say that there are, of course, parts of this that require further discussion. You can make demands on the individual to participate in education, but the state cannot make demands on the municipalities to accept the person in education, not quite in the same way in any case. There are a little different types of regulations, and that is what we are currently working on. But I think it is important that people who lack the basic skills normally required as an entry ticket on the Swedish labour market are mainly engaged in training during their period of establishment.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-268	Madam President, I would like I can stress once again that it is very good that we have been able to reach this agreement on the whole proposal and also on the education obligation. I would like to thank you very much for a clear, direct and also satisfactory answer on the subject of education. When it comes to trainee jobs, extra services and state preparedness jobs, I can generally have views on how good they really are, but these were still job promises. I think the fast track is better, but not so many people are covered there. When things are going well for Sweden and we do not have people outside the labour market, of course we should not have trainee jobs and constructed services at all. And sure, Sweden is doing well. People close to the labour market are doing well. Those who have made it through school are doing well. Most people born and raised in Sweden are doing well, not least for those who have parents who are also. But the problem is that we have a large and broad exclusion, not least extensive many of the people who have come new to Sweden, but also those who have not made it to school. It is not the case that there is a shortage of people to put in the 32 000 trainee jobs, the 20 000 extra posts, the 5 000 state preparedness jobs and the fast track. Even if they were to be filled to the brim and a little bit more, we would still have a long line of people who were ever further away from the labour market. What is the plan of the government and Ylva Johansson, in addition to the report we are debating here today and beyond what has been proposed in the past but which has not yet begun to deliver? Are there any other suggestions in Ylva Johansson's desk drawer that will make a real difference to those who are far from the labour market?
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-273	Madam President, I would like I believe that extra services, modern standby jobs and fast tracks and other job tracks will develop well and reach quite large volumes. It is also necessary because many people find it difficult to compete in the labour market as it stands today. It is not true that people are increasingly away from the labour market. On the other hand, it is true that a growing proportion of those enrolled at Arbetsförmedlingen have recently arrived in Sweden. It is clear that when you are new in Sweden you are by definition quite far from the Swedish labour market. But it is not the case that people are moving further and further away from the labour market. That's not true. It is the composition of the inscribed that changes and is an expected change. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, let me say something about jobs, regardless of labour market policy efforts, jobs created by overall economic policies and the investments made by the government, which are the most important thing for having a workable employment policy. We can look at jobs with so-called low qualification requirements. It is estimated that over eight years with the previous government, some 14,000 such jobs with low qualifications were created. During the first three years of this government, some 13,000 such low-skilled jobs have been created. Of course, it is not easy how to make the definitions. But it is not true that there would be poor growth in the private market of jobs with lower qualification requirements. This does not exclude the fact that we also need labour market policy action. We need that. The challenges are great with a lot of people who have recently come to Sweden, and many of them are now going to the labour market at the same time. But it grows into jobs with different types of qualification requirements on the Swedish labour market.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-279	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for a good speech and an exciting debate! It is always the case that if you agree on things, you think that there is not much debate. There are parts in this where we agree, and there are parts where we see that we would have to do more. In some parts it is a little different things we see need to be done. What we can say is that we have made a trip where we see that establishment has gone from just taking care of to having the focus on getting into work. That is something that is not done with a single reform. We learned this very much when we implemented the establishment reform. There were discussions that had to be followed continuously. If you have worked in a way and are going to make a big change and start working in a completely different way, it is still very many times the same people who work on similar assignments. This calls for awareness of the fact that it is a matter of major changes in how to respond to people and how to support and help them out. There we are not yet in the finish line. We have continued a great deal of work to ensure that we get right in the processes. What I'm going to bring up is a little bit connected to the matching part. What we can see is exactly what we all agree on, that we have a fantastic boom. You just have to thank and receive. What you face out at all companies is the lack of skills. That's the big one. What you are facing now is that they have realised that they will not get that particular competence. How can we reorganise the work to make use of the vacancies available and take advantage of those at the disposal of the labour market? This makes it extra troubling when Arbetsförmedlingen does not respond in those parts. We have had the Director-General visiting the committee. One question I asked was linked to the reduction in the proportion of efforts for these people in the establishment plan delivered by external actors during the spring. The question is whether it is a conscious strategy.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-284	Madam President, I would like That is absolutely correct. I agree with most of what Annika Qarlsson says here. It is important that you continue to focus on jobs. You can see from Arbetsförmedlingen's own evaluation that what is often flawed is that it becomes too stupid. It does not hold together a chain of efforts and aims at a concrete job or at least a concrete industry or profession in the various initiatives. It's really supposed to be a chain leading up to the goal. There is a further need to fill. With regard to the last question that Annika Qarlsson raises about a decrease in the number of external actors, she asked me the same written question about this. I don't have the picture that it would be like that. Perhaps these are tasks that Annika Qarlsson has that I have not had the opportunity to take part of. I have not seen this with regard to the resources invested in external suppliers. The number has decreased, but I do not see that the total proportion would have decreased at Arbetsförmedlingen. I'm asking myself a little bit of a question about that. It is definitely nothing that the government has steered towards. It is one thing for Arbetsförmedlingen to decide which suppliers it will use and how many. It's possible there's information I'm not up to date with. But I don't have the picture that it's narrowed.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-287	Madam President, I would like What is in the questions I have downloaded from Arbetsförmedlingen's statistics on the website. It is available for all types of actions aimed specifically at those with a foreign background. It is about getting closer to the regular labour market in different ways. During the month of April, all the different interventions are falling while the inflows are increasing. The answer I received from the Director-General was that it is being analysed. He couldn't tell me what it was. Nor could he describe when he felt that he would have an answer to it. I find it very remarkable. Somewhere we have to make sure that we use all the resources and all the powers that are in this. We had a follow-up meeting with some of the complementary actors who had previously been part of supply advice to Arbetsförmedlingen. They describe how they perceive that Arbetsförmedlingen does not use existing agreements. There are no instructions. You don't get these people out. They also feel that they are in a situation where it is a changed situation. In the past, they've been knocking on the door of employers all along and saying, "Hey, we exist, and we have these people." Now it's a changed situation. Now all the companies come and knock on their door and say: Hey, we need 50 now and 10 then, 10 then, and 5 now. But they don't have the ability to deliver. Somewhere, it's about getting the match together. It is now that we are in the position that it would be possible to get many people into work relatively easily through this. If you look at the DUA report, which also includes the Employment Service's statistics for 2016, you can see that in 2016 only 30 per cent of all those with an establishment plan received some kind of effort to get closer to the labour market. To that question, the Director General replied that the Employment Service had a full focus on getting people into extra posts. We didn't succeed in that, was his answer. Then you get even more concerned. Is it just an effort that the Arbetsförmedlingen can handle?
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-292	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with Annika Qarlsson that we obviously have major challenges and a lot of problems regarding the efficiency and internal control of the Swedish Public Employment Service. We have a great need to achieve better results and greater efficiency and get more workplace-based efforts. I agree with that.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-293	Madam President, I would like I thought I'd focus a little bit on the various services to get faster establishment. The creation law that we have discussed had the work line in focus, just as the Minister says. Now we have a great chance here. There is a shortage of labour, and we hear more calling for labour. Now it is important to get the whole large group that has come as new arrivals to Sweden. We have the government's 32,000 trainee jobs that became a few hundred. What's going on? Why isn't it working? According to the Employment Service's statistics on 31 000 additional posts, 2 765 have it. It is specifically aimed at new arrivals and the group we are talking about today. However, only 85 people on the start-up assignment have an additional service. There's money for 31,000. In the start-up mission, many more could be helped. But something is causing it to catch up. In addition, some of those who have received additional services have received them from the Employment Service itself. At Arbetsförmedlingen there are 200 who have extra services. Every tenth person who currently has an additional position is employed at Arbetsförmedlingen. Today, we are spending about 30 billion on wage subsidies and wage subsidies for what I have described and what the government is proposing. We wonder whether these 30 billion are really well spent money. Is it not better to do what the Christian Democrats are proposing with an introductory position where the employer and the employee themselves will find the way to get into work without all these great subsidies from the state?
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-297	Madam President, I would like Trainee jobs were created by us when we were in opposition. Then, during the previous government, Sweden had a high youth unemployment rate. It was so high that Sweden received EU support. Other countries had to pay Sweden to make efforts to solve youth unemployment. At this stage, it was justified to make proposals to reduce youth unemployment. Trainee jobs were intended for young people with upper secondary school skills. With other policies that the government has pursued, and with the help of a good economy, young people have got jobs without wage support. That's excellent. We have almost zero unemployment among young people with upper secondary skills. No one's happier than me for this. There is no longer a need for trainee jobs; there is no intrinsic value in sticking to labour market policy efforts if it is possible to get a job in the regular labour market without support. So it's not something I grieve. Now there are other groups in need. This does not apply primarily to young people, especially those with upper secondary skills, but to others. It is, for example, newly arrived but also the long-term unemployed and people with disabilities who need action. The growing group is just the new arrivals. That's why extra services are an important tool. Modern emergency work is another. We will also need more action of a different nature in order for this to succeed. These are efforts that are growing and that must grow. The government will make more efforts to ensure that this is also the case. I have very close contact with many municipalities about this, and I see that they are often a little sluggish. But it is getting going, and I am counting on us to see considerably higher volumes in this regard. Mr President, I would like to Wage support is one of the most effective ways of using resources. It is one of the most effective ways of getting people to work. Agreements between employers and workers in the form of things that can be resolved without subsidies are, in my view, excellent, and such talks are also taking place.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-302	Mr President, I would like to My point in asking for a reply at all to the Minister today is precisely to focus on 30 billion in various wage subsidies. It can certainly be effective for some people. However, I believe that we must move in a different direction. If so, spend this 30 billion on reducing employers' contributions so that it will be easier to hire or on something else that has better efficiency! To say that all these wage subsidies are effective when there are only a few hundred out of 32 000 trainee jobs and 2 765 extra posts out of 31 000 budgeted, I do not think that is a good starting point. When it comes to the fact that the EU had views on Sweden's youth unemployment, I do not think that the EU should make up what labour market measures we should have, and I do not think that the government should make them up either. I think it is the entrepreneurs themselves who should find the means to meet the needs of the labour market. That is where we have to go: to support employers in speeding up matching so that they can find labour. Now the risk is that we lock people up in different types of projects, subsidised jobs and so on. Instead, let this be simplified with the Christian Democratic proposal on introductory employment! During a probationary period, the employer can provide the persons with training at work. Make this form of employment easier! I hope, because it sounded like the Minister still had a small opening because this can be seen as an advantage and that together the social partners, perhaps with the support of the government, can speed up development. Stop all these labour market policies and make sure that jobs are available to the workforce and that it is cheaper to hire!
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-306	Mr President, I would like to There is an overwhelming research that shows that wage subsidies are one of the most cost-effective and well-functioning ways of getting people into the labour market – of course, with the brandy that they should be well designed and go to the right people. But this is one of the most effective ways, and we should use it, not by itself, but by doing so. However, this will never solve all the problems in the labour market, and other solutions are therefore also needed. The construction industry and the construction industry have recently agreed on a new collective agreement containing, for example, professional-oriented practices for non-construction workers. This can then be built on with a career introduction employment. These are roads that are completely outside the subsidies that can be obtained through the Employment Service and where the parties themselves take responsibility for ways into the labour market. I think we need more of this. Yesterday's echo was able to tell us that the industry is in talks about forms of employment with adapted conditions for new arrivals. I welcome the fact that such talks are being held. When an agreement has been reached, the government is, of course, prepared to be a partner in this. With the challenges we face in the labour market, we will use wage subsidies and the social partners and their solutions. We will need both parts and combine this with training efforts. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by thanking you for the debate and wishing all the members of the committee, my fellow and counter-debaters, a pleasant summer. See you again in the new parliamentary year!
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-311	Mr President, I would like to The Alliance government made major changes in the area of discrimination in order to streamline and tighten up its anti-discrimination work. Since 2009, we have had the Non-Discrimination Act, which replaced other anti-discrimination laws but covers more grounds for discrimination and more areas of society than before. Among other things, age and transgender identity were added or expressed as grounds for discrimination. At the same time as the new law came into force, a new authority was established – the Discrimination Ombudsman. Four anti-discrimination ombudsmen were merged into one to simplify and streamline the work. The fight against discrimination was also reinforced by the introduction of a new compensation: the compensation for discrimination. It would cost to discriminate. Later, constitutional protection has also been strengthened for discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. Swedish anti-discrimination legislation also includes requirements for active measures. Among other things, employers should work to level out and prevent differences in wages and other conditions of employment between women and men performing equal work. But there we are, as we know, not yet. Several of you have probably seen the very talking commercial from KPA Pension. Children discuss the obvious of equal pay for men and women. A boy says, "How unfair! And another boy answers: Yes, why don't boys earn as much as girls? I've seen the commercials several times, and I think it's good every time. It is also necessary. It reminds us that we must have this discussion every day here in Parliament, at the workplace, at school and at home. Recently, the active measures in the Non-Discrimination Act were broadened following a proposal by the current government based on an alliance inquiry. The Moderates welcome the new active measures and the fact that they now cover all discrimination grounds for employers and education providers. On the other hand, we do not believe that the benefits of annual written documentation outweigh the extra work and administrative burden on employers. We believe that every three years is sufficient and better balanced. The Moderates consider that the discrimination law that came in 2009 needs to be evaluated to see if it has had the intended effect. The report recently presented Better protection against discrimination. That is a good thing, and we look forward to hearing what the consultation bodies think about the proposals contained in it. Nevertheless, we believe that the current anti-discrimination law should be evaluated. In particular, we should look at whether sanctions are sufficient or whether they need to be developed, as stated in reservation 9. Mr President, I would like to I shall also say a few words about discrimination based on transgender identity or expression and sexual orientation. Protection against discrimination and the work against hate crime was strengthened, as I said, under the alliance government, and in society there is ongoing work against discrimination. But there is still much work to be done. According to a survey by the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society among young homosexuals and bisexuals, 65% of women and 48% of men in the last three months had been treated in an offensive way because of their disposition. In another survey, although published by the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights in 2013, 36% of Swedes who replied stated that they had been discriminated against on grounds of sexual orientation in the past year. At the same time, we know that very few report these things to DO. The Moderates want to strengthen DODO work, among other things by strengthening DO's excellence in all grounds of discrimination. As I said earlier, we want to review the sanctions and sanctions in the event of breaches of the Non-Discrimination Act. I have noted that the government says that in the autumn it will present a proposal for enhanced criminal law protection for trans-nationals. Of course I'm looking forward to that. With regard to the LGBT strategy initiated by the Alliance Government, the committee writes that the government continues to work on it – that is good. But it's been a while since it came into existence, and societal challenges have changed. It is necessary to constantly update the strategy. We want the strategy to be clarified; there is a great potential for change here. We believe that the government should continue its work on the LGBT strategy. In conclusion, Mr President, a great deal of work is going on, but much more can be done to strengthen and develop the work against discrimination. Of course, the Moderates are behind both of our reservations, but for time winning, I only ask for the approval of reservation 2.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-327	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for our reservations 2 and 5 to be approved. I will probably be spending quite a lot of time, because I will focus on the issue that both these reservations are really about. This is listed under two points: discrimination on grounds of sex and discrimination on grounds of ethnicity. However, both reservations could have been summed up under the point Discrimination in public activities because that is precisely what they are about. There are many good and worthy motions in this report at all on what action should be taken and on what investigations should be set up to ensure that the legislation we have is complied with and that sanctions are in place when discrimination occurs. However, we have chosen to support only those who focus on the discriminatory use of public and tax funds. This is something that we have unfortunately seen in our country: that it is possible for various publicly funded activities to divide access on the basis of gender. They have sex-separated bathing times and separate education for boys and girls, and they distinguish between how they treat boys and girls, women and men with public resources. This is something that will always be unacceptable in our world. The second point, on ethnicity, relates precisely to what we debated to some extent just now on the issue of the legislation on establishment, here exemplified by the so-called entry-level jobs. Tax funds, government resources, are being set aside to only subsidise wages for those who have recently arrived in Sweden. So those who were born here or have lived here for a long time have no opportunity to take advantage of this tax money, which is chosen from the state to address only those who have recently arrived here. This is just as unacceptable in our world. I have pointed out several times in this and other speakers that the most important and obvious starting point if we want to combat discrimination and work towards a society where everyone is treated equally is that we, from the state, municipal and regional sides, that is, from the public side, treat people equally. That is why we have lifted these two motions in our reservations today, and that is why I am calling for both reservations to be accepted. That is really all I have to say here and now; we have had this debate so many times before.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-334	Mr President, I would like to Last week I took part in a discussion about the Migration Agency's asylum procedures regarding LGBTQ people. It was arranged because there have been many high-profile cases that both show the difficulty with the trials, and – and most seriously – point to the ignorance of the LGBTQ people's situation. A first basic knowledge is required in order to fully understand the importance of knowledge about LGBTQ but of course also the conditions for these people in the different countries they come from. In order for the asylum seeker to be able to open up and fully explain his reasons for asylum, he must be in a safe room, where he dares to open up and manage to put words to something that he has never said before. As everyone who understands the special vulnerability these people are in knows, the response is extremely important, and it is not a meeting but a process that is required for asylum seekers to dare and be able to tell. There's not the Migration Agency today. The Alliance government initiated an LGBT strategy during our government years. It was the first comprehensive strategy adopted with a view to promoting equal rights and opportunities in different areas. This is a work that has only just begun, and it is good that the government continues and reinforces it. The work on LGBTQ rights must be included in all parts of society. Municipalities and county councils are important public actors that must be able to meet all people in a knowledgeable and respectful way. Of course, they need to work to increase knowledge and improve the response among their employees, but in order for this not to happen a little bit here and a little bit there requires a structured way of working with e.g. action plans and certification. For a secure society that includes all people and families, the government needs to continue to update the work within the context of the LGBT strategy, including through a more structured way of working to strengthen and develop the work against discrimination linked to gender identity, gender expression and sexual orientation. Mr President, I would like to A new and coherent anti-discrimination legislation was introduced in 2009. Seven previous anti-discrimination laws were repealed and four ombudsmen were merged into a single authority: the Discrimination Ombudsman. It was a major reform, and the idea was that the work to combat discrimination would be clearer and more straightforward and thus more effective. A new discrimination compensation was introduced to compensate the individual for the violation, but also to discourage discrimination by assessing the overall preventive effect of the compensation. With new legislation, it is important to monitor developments in this area more closely. It will be interesting to take note of the reaction of the consultation bodies to the proposals made in their report by the Study on Better Opportunities for Combating Discrimination. However, we believe that there is a need to make a more thorough assessment of the anti-discrimination law in order to ensure that it has had the intended effect. The review should assess, inter alia, the possibility of strengthening sanctions for infringements of the Non-Discrimination Act. I'm behind both of our reservations, but I'm pressing for the winning approval of time only to reservation number 10.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-343	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by saying that I support all the reservations of the Left Party but that I am only in favour of reservation No 7. The fight to break discrimination and the exclusion of people with disabilities has been long and crooked and is still very much under way. An important part of this struggle is, of course, to get legislation that helps build a society where everyone can participate on equal terms. The Discrimination Act adopted in 2008 was a step forward in this respect. As regards accessibility, the Government stated in that bill that the issue of failure to take reasonable measures for accessibility needed further consideration. Such a special investigation was also set up, and in 2010 it left its report Beyond Fagert talk – on lack of accessibility as discrimination to the then government of Reinfeldt. Not much happened after that; the question was drawn in the long way. The Swedish Parliament therefore decided in June 2012 to announce to the government that it will urgently return with a bill on the lack of accessibility of people with disabilities as a form of discrimination. After some chatter there was a proposal in spring 2014, and a decision to introduce the new ban on discrimination could be taken in June 2014. We from the Left Party welcomed this. In principle, it clarified that the issue of accessibility concerns human rights. But, like the disability movement, we had several objections to the exceptions proposed by the then government and decided. It applies not least to the crude delimitation that the law does not apply at all to companies with fewer than ten employees except in a single area. This means that the provisions on active measures do not apply to the overwhelming majority of the activities with which people come into contact. In principle, there is no need to even consider the question of accessibility on the basis of legislation. It's very problematic. We made this point in the parliamentary reading and the debate. Now it was so good that shortly after the decision on the legislative changes we had a new government, and it has come back with proposals to remove the 10 employee exemption. There was at least one legislative referral on this last week, which is gratifying. As we in the Left Party point out in the motion under discussion in today's report, there are more aspects than the ten-person exception that are problematic or that would have to be worked on in order to improve legislation and thus accessibility for everyone in Swedish society. As we pointed out during the debate in 2014, these include several props in the so-called fairness assessment. This applies, for example, to what is called economic conditions. It says that the need for active accessibility measures should be reasonable, which is, of course, reasonable. However, just as several consultation bodies objected at the time and in the legislative referral presented by the Government, the wording on the business environment means that companies could continuously prioritise other than entirely reasonable measures to meet the law's requirements for accessibility with recurring references to their financial conditions. Another weakness is that the secondary responsibility proposed by the investigation for those who prevent measures against lack of accessibility was not included in the law. These are, for example, cases where property owners say no to measures that tenants – it may be housing or companies – want to take to increase accessibility. On the Left side, we would like to emphasise in all contexts that accessibility and participation are about giving everyone the same democratic rights and opportunities in society. Making workplaces, housing, transport and public premises accessible increases the opportunities for people with disabilities to participate in education, training, working life and social life at large. It is also a socially profitable investment. Basically, society must be planned after the diversity that we have. Society must be right from the start and plan on the basis of the principle of universal design, i.e. the understanding that people are different and that planning should be based on everyone being able to participate, regardless of functional ability. Like what the Disability Associations, now the Right of Function Sweden, have presented in, for example, referrals on the issue of the abolition of the ten-person opt-out, the Left Party wants a broader grant that evaluates today's legislation and considers offensive ways forward. That's what our exercise is all about. Mr President, I would like to In other motions, the Left Party has addressed the actual possibility of following up and prosecuting discrimination. It is a fact that discrimination is difficult to access legally, because it is difficult to detect and difficult to prove. In the cases that lead to conviction, penalties are often low, and an employer may even feel that the cost of discrimination is worth paying. At the same time, discrimination can have severe and profound consequences for those affected. That is why, as part of combating discrimination in all parts of society, we want to strengthen the understanding of discrimination as a crime. We want the government to come back with proposals for increased damages in discrimination cases. Furthermore, we want the work against racism, homophobia, patriarchal structures and other forms of intolerance and discrimination to be carried out effectively throughout Sweden. A small but important contribution to this would be if there was at least one anti-discrimination agency in each county. Such agencies, with the necessary powers and legal competence to pursue discrimination cases, could then act as local offices for the Discrimination Ombudsman. It would bring these issues closer to reality and create greater legitimacy for existing legislation. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to emphasise that the fight against discrimination and for an inclusive society is, of course, and must be broader than legislation, complaints and legal practices developed by courts. Basically, it is about having social institutions and organisations that work to take advantage of people's rights. In the labour market, labour law and trade union strength are crucial to counteract the arbitrariness of the structurally stronger party, i.e. the employer. The Employment Protection Act is important for it to be reasonably objective criteria that meet the employee. This also means that the holes in this protection are important to close, something that we often overwhelm in this committee. Historical experiences as well as daily social struggles in our society clearly show that individual and civil rights need to be backed up by collective strength in order to become meaningful and that major economic gaps in society create such imbalances in man's power over his own life that discrimination can become a normal state. A broad policy of economic and social justice is therefore crucial for those who want to take effective action against discrimination.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-358	Mr President, I would like to As a liberal, it is extremely important to emphasise the freedoms, rights and opportunities of the individual. Discrimination is something that goes directly against this. It is about people being subjected to oppression, intolerance or racism and so on, often because of things that they cannot influence themselves, such as where you come from or what sexual orientation you have. Sweden needs strong anti-discrimination laws. We also need stronger legislation at European level against discrimination. In this connection, let me note that we in the Liberals have two reservations on this matter. I am, of course, behind both. I support reservation 8, which deals with age discrimination. In 2013, protection against age discrimination in Sweden was extended to include goods, services, health and social services alongside working life and education. This is something that we in the Liberals have been fighting for a long time. We think it is important that these changes were made. However, there are a number of exceptions in the legislation. At the age of 67, for example, you lose the right to remain in work. People with disabilities then lose their right to daily activities. At the age of 65, the car support for a person who is disabled stops and needs the car in order to be able to work. Banking and insurance conditions are also deteriorating. Of the approximately 300 notifications received each year by the Discrimination Ombudsman, where age discrimination is invoked, only a handful have led to some measures. On the Liberal side, we believe that the government must now ensure that there is a systematic review of the complaints about age discrimination in order to address the causes of people experiencing discrimination because of their chronological age. I support this reservation. For reasons of time, I only support it. We have another reservation, together with the Left Party, which calls for the trannies to be included in the European Union's anti-discrimination legislation. I think it should be self-evident that discrimination based on gender identity and expression should be included there. In addition, we have two specific opinions in areas where we choose not to reserve ourselves, because the government has announced that it will proceed with work. These are exceptions in the legislation that means that lack of access can be classed as discrimination. We wait for the bill to be submitted to the Riksdag and may take a position on it at that time. It is also about the follow-up to the strategy on equal rights and opportunities. There, Statskontoret has carried out an evaluation, and the government will return to the Riksdag with proposals for measures. We are also waiting for this and do not reserve ourselves on these points.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-367	Mr President, I would like to I support both Christian-Democratic reservations, but for time-winning, I only call for reservation 6. The work against discrimination is extremely important. We need to take various measures to tackle discrimination that restricts people in working life but also in other social life. We still see obstacles for many people with foreign backgrounds, people with disabilities and the elderly to enter the labour market. We need all people who want and can work in the labour market. Our legislation must therefore be clear and counter discrimination. We Christian Democrats have highlighted, in a motion request and in a reservation in the report, the need to identify discrimination or disadvantage of parents and pregnant women in working life. During the time of the Alliance in power, a disadvantaging ban was introduced, which means that people must not be dismissed during their parental leave. This signals that parents should be able to feel confident about going on parental leave. It is important that both parents feel that security. The idea is that it should be possible to reconcile work and family life. According to the Union trade union, this has led to a reduction in the number of redundant people during parental leave– that is good. Despite these improvements, however, DO raises the number of complaints linked to parenthood. So there are new figures that suggest that something might be going on. We Christian Democrats therefore believe that the government should entrust DO with the task of identifying discrimination or disadvantaging parents and pregnant women at work. The mission should also include proposals for measures to strengthen the protection of this group. It is a pity that the government parties did not want to meet with us in this desire. I shall also state the second reservation, Mr President. We raise the issue of discrimination on the basis of religion or other beliefs. I don't think there's any other party that's lifted it. I would therefore like to emphasise this in particular. The number of hate crimes is increasing. Churches, mosques, and synagogues have been attacked by various types, and people with various religious belongings are subjected to crimes because of their faith. In the statistics that the Swedish Crime Prevention Council reported last year, one can see that the fastest growing hate crime has christhophobic motives. Over the past five years, the number of identified complaints with christhophobic motives has increased by 140 per cent – that is 390 notifications. When it comes to hate crimes against Muslims, it has increased by 100 percent to 590 reports. And the anti-Semitic crimes amount to 280 reports. This is therefore a serious area. The Board of Government Support to Faith Groups reports threats to converts to Christianity from former Muslim faith mates. It has also been recurrent – it is something I have mentioned in the House earlier – reports of attacks on Christians on asylum homes. We believe that the government should take these crimes seriously. When the government decided on a national plan against racism, similar forms of hostility and hate crime, religious motives should have been included. But the government is ignoring this group. These hate crimes must be combated so that they do not reproduce into the various structures of our society. This applies both inside and outside the workplace. The government should act, and this should have been added to the mandate given to the Living History Forum to coordinate and follow up the national plan against racism, similar forms of hostility and hate crime. Unfortunately, we cannot see that the government parties take the issues of discrimination on a religious basis seriously. It is true that the majority of the committees say that they fully share the Christian Democrats' view of hate crime on a religious basis and that it must be taken very seriously. However, it is considered that the current national plan meets this objective. We Christian Democrats do not think that is enough. We will follow the question. The issue is highly topical. It requires that we be careful not to have a society without respect for different religious groups and where people feel afraid to show and exercise their faith. We do not want to see such a society. Various religious and ethnic minorities should be respected.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-378	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for all reservations to be rejected. Sweden should be a tolerant and humane society, characterised by diversity and with respect for the individual's human rights and freedoms. The equal value of all human beings must be respected. We can only see how people face prejudice on a daily basis and thus risk being discriminated against. These may include, for example, employers' prejudices about the origin, functional variation, age or sexual orientation of people who are best suited to a job. This may involve a person being discriminated against on grounds of ethnic origin or gender. Almost exactly a year ago, we in Parliament decided on changes to the Discrimination Act, which means that the work on active measures in the field of employment and education should cover the same grounds of discrimination as the prohibitions of discrimination, i.e. the seven grounds for discrimination. And an explanation of the term "active measures" was introduced into the law. Active measures are a prevention and promotion work to combat discrimination within an activity and otherwise promote equal rights and opportunities regardless of gender, transgender identity or expression, ethnicity, religion or other belief, disability, sexual orientation or age. This change entered into force on 1 January this year and will be one of several components to combat discrimination. The DO, the Ombudsman for Discrimination, is, of course, responsible for overseeing the law. Mr President, I would like to More is going on. The report refers to the fact that the government is preparing a number of questions. I would like to mention what has happened after we adjusted the report. Last week, the government decided on a Council of Law referral to extend protection against discrimination in the form of lack of accessibility. The legislative referral proposes an amendment to the Discrimination Act regarding the lack of accessibility of persons with disabilities – this is something that the Left Party, among other things, has mentioned here in the pulpit. The amendment also means that companies which at the end of the last calendar year employed fewer than 10 workers should be subject to the prohibition of discrimination in the form of lack of accessibility if the company provides goods and services to the public in its business activities. That is something that the Liberals have also mentioned. The amendment is proposed to enter into force on 1 May 2018. It is a long-awaited proposal that has been demanded by many in the movement of functional variation. Hopefully we can handle this bill in Parliament this autumn. Mr President, I would like to Sweden and several other EU states are working to ensure that explicit references to prohibitions of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity are introduced and widely accepted in the UN system and other international fora. Sweden has been committed and supportive in the establishment of an independent expert against discrimination and violence against persons as a result of sexual orientation or gender identity in the UN Human Rights Council. We welcome the inclusion of the issue of discrimination against LGBT people in the Action Plan on feminist foreign policy 2015-2018. With regard to European cooperation and the Commission's proposal for a directive on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, the so-called anti-discrimination directive, the government has stated, in consultation with us in committee, that it welcomes the proposal and promotes its adoption. We must also recall the developments we are seeing in the European Union as well, how Poland and Hungary are moving in one direction and Ireland is moving in a positive direction. Developments in Poland are frightening. Not to mention outside the EU, for example in Russia, where we have seen terrible events against LGBT people, particularly in Chechnya, but also in other parts of Russia. Mr President, I would like to Effective work against racism and hate crime is a prerequisite for achieving the goal of a society free from discrimination. Combating racism and similar forms of hostility also prevents the risk of people being disadvantaged by being treated worse than anyone else because of ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation or gender identity. We believe that preventive work is needed to combat racism and polarisation in society. As the report says, I would also like to say here in the debate that we share the view of the Christian Democrats that hate crime on a religious basis must be taken very seriously. In a democratic society, zero tolerance must prevail against all forms of threats and hatred. Mr President, I would like to There are some reservations in the report that I would like to comment on. Today we have various types of wage support for employers who employ people who find it difficult to enter the labour market. This applies to the long-term unemployed, people with foreign background and persons with reduced working capacity. The Swedish Democrats argue that it is discrimination against Swedish-born people when a certain wage subsidy – entry job – is directed at people who are newly arrived in Sweden. I have a question for Sven-Olov-Olov Sällström and Paula Bieler in the Swedish Democrats: Do you know many Swedish born who are in need of SFI? It is a prerequisite for getting an entry-level job. You have reservations about that, and I'm trying to understand what you've been thinking. With regard to the second reservation by the Swedish Democrats on tightening up the Discrimination Act, I wonder whether you have not followed the action of the Discrimination Ombudsman. DO has already stated that it is not allowed to exclude men from bathing houses, for example. Have you completely missed it? It was in December 2016 that DO said so, so I wonder where the Swedish Democrats have retrieved their information somewhere. What tightening up do you want to achieve with the law? Having said that, Mr President, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-395	Mr President, I would like to It is always interesting to discuss these issues. In many parts our views do not differ very much. Sometimes there can be a difference in the implementation or where you have the center of gravity somewhere. I would like to hear what Eva-Lena Jansson can see for further development, linked to the Migration Agency's asylum applications. When Pride was arranged in Gothenburg a few weeks ago, we had a seminar with a person from the Migration Agency who is responsible for LGBTQ issues and RFSL's chairman in the West. The images I get are that there is still a lack of insight when it comes to being able to open up and tell things that are unspeakable where you have fled – from not being able to talk about it at all to opening up in a short meeting and describing what you have about sexual orientation and preferences. It feels as if there is still a lack of the knowledge needed to create the safe spaces needed to open up, but also the opportunity to give time for the process. After all, it is not certain that an initial meeting will be able to open up that part, but that it will actually be necessary to come to a process. When I asked the Chairman of the RFSL, who, along with many others, joined in following these talks, she described that this is not unusual but that this is how it is done. Something else is an exception. I am thinking that we do not disagree on the substance here, but how do we move forward on these issues in order to create better conditions for safe asylum procedures for these people?
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-401	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Annika Qarlsson, for the question! I think that when you come from a country where you are threatened or stoned and killed if, for example, you have a homosexual disposition, it is not easy to say anything. I think that it is at the Migration Agency as an authority to actually work with these issues and that in their organisation, just like in all other organisations, you have to develop their expertise in the field. I think that this is an issue that should be raised in the Social Security Committee if you look at it. We had that discussion last parliamentary term when I was on the Social Security Committee, so the issue is not new. Perhaps we can say this: the more new and perhaps younger people are employed at the Migration Agency, the more competence there will be in this area, but it is about constantly preparing processes. As we have said in relation to the asylum process, it is also important for women and children to have their case tested individually and not to be merged. It is an individual examination, but it is also about knowledge to be able to ask the right questions and also describe what opportunities there are in Sweden based on persecuted LGBTQ people's situation. We also know that many people who come to Sweden describe this as what they are being persecuted for, so it is an important issue to follow. However, I believe that this is the mission of the Migration Agency, and I believe that the issue has also been discussed quite a lot in the Social Security Committee.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-406	Mr President, I would like to The fact that I am raising the issue in this debate is that, although we have discrimination legislation and a discrimination ombudsman, it is no use or pleasure if we do not ensure that our activities make full use of strategies and approaches or have knowledge to provide a good response. This is particularly true of an asylum process, because it means that either you stay or you can go back home. Part of this problem, I believe, is that in the government's regulations to the Migration Agency in this case we do not provide clear guidelines that it needs to be dealt with in a different way. We know that precisely the LGBT reasons mean that it takes several meetings before one feels a confidence so that one can open up at all. It may take several meetings before you have even been able to describe and tell us what it is actually about and what you are exposed to at home. Therefore, I think it is important to give targeted descriptions that this must be met in some other way at an even earlier stage and that it is not only expected that it is something that an authority should sort out itself, because they have many different groups that they should have regard to. I believe that this is an important part of ensuring that there is legal certainty in the handling and assessment of people seeking asylum for LGBT reasons.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-409	Mr President, I would like to I trust that both the former Minister of Migration and the current Minister of Migration have focused on these issues and have them in their work with regulations and guidelines to the Migration Agency. This is not a new question, it is a question that you have been working on for quite some time. We know that it is difficult for people who have not previously been open. But the problem that has now been highlighted is that people who are open and describe it are also being questioned whether they are homosexuals or not and how they can prove it. This discussion must be made clear: are the appropriate regulations and tests used? However, this issue is not in this committee, but in the Social Security Committee, I think it is.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-412	Mr President, I would like to I received two specific questions which I will try to answer. With regard to the first question of entry-level jobs and the SFI connection, that is precisely the problem, that is to say, there is a special possibility of specific targeted support that only some people can take part in – only those who can participate in SFI, that is, only those who have recently come to the country. That is the main point: that it is not possible for those who have been in the country for a long time to get a job that is 80% paid for by the state. We do not consider this to be a reasonable order. We believe that it creates further dividing lines in the labour market. We have also seen how it can lead to lock-in effects in the form of recent systematically arriving at certain employers and being replaced over time, which is based on an increased level of subsidy from the state. The recent arrivals are considerably cheaper to hire, something that we do not believe will lead to greater integration or better entry into society. The DODO decision and what they landed in was indeed something that at first sight they seem reasonable, that is to say that one should apply rules very restrictively if one now wants an exemption from women and men being treated equally. But the same statement says that in the cases that have brought the debate up to date, that is to say, if it is considered that, for religious and cultural reasons, women would not be able to participate in activities, then it will suddenly be possible to introduce separate periods of women's and men's time. It says explicitly. I believe that public activities should not in any way confirm such a view that women and men cannot participate in activities together because of values that do not belong in an equal Sweden.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-416	Mr President, I would like to If we believe that it is important to break unemployment among people who have recently arrived in Sweden, it is important to make a big effort. There are different ways to do it. For disabled people, there are wage subsidy contracts. One may think that the effort itself is wrong, but if it is important to break unemployment among immigrant people, it is about learning Swedish. Then the support can be given. If you are long-term unemployed and Swedish there are lots of efforts, including extra services. There you get a salary that is 100% financed by the state. It is important to do the right things with the right people and direct efforts where they are needed. The Swedish democrats criticise the high unemployment rate among immigrants, but then they say that no efforts should be made to solve the unemployment situation. If companies cheat with the support, it should of course be prosecuted. That's what we're gonna get away from. It's very important. It is important that there is proper transparency for trade unions. That's something SD has actually opposed. Then there was DODO statement about bathing times. DO considered that the Discrimination Act had been infringed. On the other hand, gender-disaggregated times were accepted in the relaxation department and stated that men and women should have equal periods of their own. It was very clear that there should be just as much time. It can be about retired ladies who want to swim in a specific time, but it can look different. I don't think it should be gender-disaggregated times that are based on the fact that we can't look at each other as human beings. It's completely wrong. But there were gender-disaggregated times both in gymnastics and in the bath house when I went to school. What you're referring to are different things.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-422	Mr President, I would like to It is just as I said in the debate that we had just recently and that we have been in on countless occasions. The Swedish Democrats are not against efforts where you catch up with what you have missed by not growing up in Sweden. We have invested in social orientation and SFI. We think that everyone who comes to Sweden should get the equivalent knowledge that you otherwise get in the Swedish comprehensive school. Unfortunately, the Minister for Labour has left, otherwise I would have reminded her that this is exactly what our proposal looks like. Either you are subject to compulsory schooling and learn Swedish and basic social education there, or if you come to our country at a later age, you should be covered by compulsory social orientation and SFI to catch up. Otherwise, the same labour market policy measures apply to those who are citizens here or who have a residence permit here and for some reason need support to enter the labour market. Then there was the question of DODO assessment. I have the press release in front of me. It explicitly states that exceptions are acceptable, for example, at the women's swimming pool at Tensta and Skärholmen swimming and sports halls, whose aim is, according to the municipality, to increase swimming skills and to enable participation in swimming pool activities for women who, for religious and cultural reasons, would otherwise not be able to participate. Participation is made possible for women who, for religious or cultural reasons, i.e. value reasons, would otherwise not be able to participate. It means nothing more than accepting from the public a view where our gender determines whether we can participate or not depending on whether the other sex is present. That is a totally unacceptable view. It is totally unacceptable that the Discrimination Ombudsman considers this to be a valid basis. In this way, I believe that there is still a need to review the legislation and put an end to it.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-427	Mr President, I would like to I still think it is important to ensure that people who are far from the labour market and need support in Swedish also have access to a labour market policy measure in the form of wage support. If you think that wage support is wrong, you can say so, and if you do not think that people should get out to work, you should also say so. I think it's important. I've read about the case raised in the motion from Patrick Reslow. That is the motion you refer to, and that is the question you refer to in your reservation. It's based on that assessment I'm reading the reservation. I also think it is important that we have the same amount of time wherever we are. We should not say that women only get certain times and that men only get certain times. We're actually supposed to be able to stay in the same room. But that there have been separate bathing times before is not new in Sweden. Then we can discuss why there are separate bathing times. That's where we feel the same. Religious reasons are strange. However, I note that there have been separate bathing times, and there are, for example, relaxation areas. It's because women want to be for themselves, not for religious reasons. You have to make up your mind. Either it's wrong in general or it's wrong for only one reason. I understand that Paula Bieler objects for a reason, namely with regard to religion.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-433	Mr President, I would like to I need to correct my previous post. Of course, I am in favour of reservation 3. I report that I have now also learned what press holiday means.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-434	Mr President, I would like to Several parallel processes are currently underway in the EU in the social field. Several of the dossiers pass through the Labour Market Committee. The other week we had a discussion on the social pillar. We have a constant discussion on the European White Paper, that is, the social dimension. We have had a discussion about strategies to make work pay. Today we have a subsidiarity review of the so-called balance directive, that is, the Commission's proposal for a directive on the work-life balance for parents and carers. This morning we had a discussion with the Minister for Labour on the substance of the matter. The debate is now about the principle of subsidiarity, and I will try to stick to it – although I have a lot of objections on the substance. On the whole, it is no secret that the Moderates believe that the EU should currently focus on meeting other major problems that are at the door rather than introducing new things in the social field. For example, one should focus on Brexit, the major migration challenges that are in no way over, cross-border crime and so on. But I will try to stick to the subsidiarity review of the Balance Directive. The Commission's aim of the proposal is to ensure that the principle of equality between men and women is applied to opportunities in the labour market and to treatment in the workplace. The background is known. There are large differences in employment rates between women and men, and we need to overcome these differences. I agree with the problem picture, and I share the view that it is urgent that we bring about changes in this area. We need to increase the presence of women in working life, especially women born abroad. On the other hand, I differ in my view on the Commission's proposals for solutions and how best to achieve them. The Commission's assessment is that it is only at European level that the balance can be achieved. I am of the opposite opinion. Sweden has come a long way – much longer than many other countries. The differences in employment rates between women and men in Sweden are overall small, but not for women born abroad. In Sweden, the labour force participation rate of women is about 12% higher than the EU average. These are figures from 2015. With this it is not said that there are no challenges and problems even in Sweden. However, I do not believe that the Commission's solution of seeking more common rules would lead Sweden in the right direction. Rather, I see a risk that we would go backwards or at least stop. I do not think that the EU should interfere in family policy. In many cases I do not think that the Swedish state should do so either. In addition, Sweden currently has generous parental insurance and a well-developed childcare facility, which provides the conditions for parents to take responsibility for children and at the same time to work. To the extent that the state is to interfere in family policy, and if we want changes by means of instruments in this area, it is my conviction that they are best achieved through national legislation. I therefore believe, Mr President, that the Commission's proposal is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. I propose rejecting the committee's proposal and approving reservation 1, that is to say that the Swedish Parliament should make a reasoned request.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-444	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats welcome cooperation with other countries where necessary. These may include cross-border issues such as the environment, international crime and the like. However, EU cooperation has developed in many ways in the wrong direction. The right to decide is slowly but surely transferred from Sweden to the EU, for example, sometimes without transparency or popular support. We Swedish democrats are concerned about the shift in power towards Brussels. We believe that the European nations themselves should assess their economic opportunities and give priority to their needs. In terms of labour market policy, gender issues and the distribution of family-related care work, the Swedish Democrats believe that the only role of politics should be to facilitate the lives of men and women in the life situations they have chosen. There is no reason to raise these issues at European level. We believe that labour market and gender equality policy in all its forms is a matter for each Member State. It is the responsibility of the Member States to ensure that national legislation is sufficient to achieve the objectives which they themselves set out according to their priorities and needs. Mr President, I would like to Article 5(3) TEU sets out the principle of subsidiarity. The Union shall act only on matters where the Member States themselves cannot achieve the objectives of the envisaged action. We verige democrats also believe that it is in the parliaments of the nations that the objectives of politics should be shaped and formulated. The Swedish Democrats believe that the nations themselves have the full opportunity to prioritise and act on issues relating to labour market policy, gender equality policy and family policy. It should also be up to the citizens of each Member State to decide on these issues themselves through democratic elections to their respective parliaments. That is where these issues belong: with the citizens of each country and not in Brussels. Mr President, I would like to In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, Article 5(3) of the Treaty on European Union states that the Union shall take action in areas where it does not have exclusive competence only if and to the extent that the objectives of the proposed action cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States, either at central level or at regional and local level, and can therefore, by reason of the scale or effects of the proposed action, be better achieved at Union level. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to There is nothing in the Commission's proposal that cannot be decided and implemented by the national parliaments to the extent that the national parliaments themselves have decided on this and have made these priorities. The Commission's proposal is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. The Swedish Democrats therefore propose that the Riksdag give a reasoned opinion. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-454	Mr President, I would like to This issue is not about the proposal itself, but about whether Sweden or other states within the EU should decide on it. The Center Party, together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, believes that a directive on the balance between work and private life requires nothing but national competence. The distribution of paid and unpaid work is an area where Sweden in some parts has come a long way. In some parts it feels as if it says still. It distinguishes between women and men in terms of pay, position, working conditions and overall – in project management for the family project. Women still take the main responsibility for homes and children while men make careers. Yes, I know there are large individual differences there, but on a structural level the differences are still large. Statistically, this is shown in pay differentials and part-time work rates, to mention two examples. In Sweden and in other EU countries there is a need for measures to achieve greater equality, including the right to leave and the possibility of flexible working arrangements for workers. It is good both for gender equality and for economic development that the potential of both women and men is being exploited. But it is not at European level that this is done best or most effectively. It is very doubtful whether it is Swedish or Nordic welfare that everyone else would follow. Much of the work we do and want to do would have to be compromised. It is and should be the responsibility of the Member States to ensure that adequate legislation is in place to reconcile work and family life between women and men. The EU should focus more on other important areas than increasing its responsibilities. Strong European cooperation is about the EU's internal market, about the fight against organised and cross-border crime and about the work towards a better and more effective climate policy. This also includes cooperation against terrorism, and a major challenge is to come up with a common solidarity and sustainable migration policy. Unlike the committee, the Center Party believes that labour market and gender equality policies are not part of this. These issues are extremely fundamental for all Member States, but there is no cross-border dimension here and this is not about freedom of movement. A reinforced exchange of experience is and should remain the main form of cooperation in the social policy field for the EU. It is not at present new supranational projects that are the answer to the concerns and dissatisfaction that we see among citizens in the countries of the European Union. The Government refers to the fact that Sweden did not object to the Commission's assessment of the subsidiarity issue when the Commission submitted proposals for amending maternity leave directives in 2008, which is surprising. On that occasion, however, Sweden or any other country did not carry out a subsidiarity review of the proposal. This is because the Treaty of Lisbon, where that possibility was established, had not entered into force. Moreover, the present proposal is much more far-reaching and has a broader scope than the Maternity Leave Directive and cannot therefore be compared. Mr President, I would like to Overall, the Center Party considers that the Commission's proposal is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-465	Mr President, I would like to I've checked, and that's the right reservation, I think. I support reservation 1, which is the common ally of the Alliance. I think that the reservation we Christian Democrats support very well describes why we do not think it is appropriate for the European Union to take more decisions than necessary. The principle of subsidiarity within the EU aims to ensure that the right decisions are taken at the right level. Here we have now received a proposal from the European Union in which the Commission wants to decide not only that parents should have the right to take parental leave but also how many months we should have quotas in parental insurance. That, Mr President, we believe, is going too far for the European Union to decide on. The Commission's proposal also requires all EU countries to introduce five days off each year in order to care for relatives. In Sweden today we have the opportunity to be free for up to 100 days to care for relatives who are in the final stage of life. If the new proposal worsens for Sweden's workers, it is not possible to interpret it. Industry has abstained in the EU, but the Commission has not listened. Now the Swedish government is not listening either. The government simply allows the EU to enter where the parties usually find solutions. It feels like you've already forgotten Brexit. If we continue along this path, there is a risk that more and more people will start to oppose EU membership, and that is something that we Christian Democrats do not think is a good development. At the moment, there is also a consultation within the EU on how to move forward. The Commission President, Jean-Claude-Claude Juncker, has presented various scenarios. Is it supposed to be more or less supranational? I am surprised that social democrats, environmentalists and left-wing parties think that a proposal that goes in a more supranational direction is better. The overall aim of the proposal is to ensure the implementation of the principle of equality between men and women in terms of access to and conditions at work. We Christian Democrats, of course, support this fundamental objective, and in that sense we share the committee's view of, for example, increasing the participation of women in the labour force as something desirable. In Sweden as well as in other EU countries, there is a need for measures to achieve greater equality, such as the right to leave and the possibility for workers to take flexible forms of work. In our view, increased gender equality contributes to economic development by harnessing the potential of both women and men. However, action to this end should not be taken at EU level in the first place. On the contrary, we believe that greater equality in working life is best achieved by taking action at our own level. Family policy should not have too much interference and detailed management. Here even the European Union, not just the government, has begun to interfere in detail. It is good to be able to reconcile work and family life, and we must ensure that people are not laid off when, for example, they are pregnant or on parental leave. We think that this kind of protection is a good thing. We think that in these times Europe should focus on meeting other problems. Brexit makes it urgent to focus on areas that create added value for citizens and strengthen the legitimacy of the EU. These are strategic issues such as the common foreign and security policy, the internal market, the fight against organised and cross-border crime and the work for a better and more effective climate policy. Cooperation against terrorism and for a solidarity and sustainable migration policy are also issues on which the EU should work together. A reinforced exchange of experience is and should remain the main form of cooperation in the social policy field for the EU. At present, it is not new supranational projects that are the answer to the concerns and dissatisfaction we see among many citizens of European countries, especially in the area of social policy. Social and social security systems should continue to be national. All in all, we believe that the Commission's proposal is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. That is why we are in favour of reservation 1.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-480	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying the obvious, namely that we Social Democrats do not share the right-wing parties' view of this subsidiarity test. On the other hand, we share the views of the government parties, and we also share the Commission's view that the proposal fits well within the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. We think that the government and the Commission are arguing for this in a reasonable and good way. I would therefore like to make it clear, for safety's sake, that I am in favour of the committee's proposal that Parliament should not give a reasoned opinion but add the opinion to the file. Mr President, I would like to I cannot, now that I have the chance, refrain from making a few minor reflections on the reservations contained in the report. If we start with the first reservation, there are a few things you can reflect on. It can be said that the Moderates do not want the European Commission to address gender issues. Apparently, they don't want the government to do it either. This is not so remarkable in itself, for the right wing has never worked for equality in any form. This is very clear in the reservation. They have always been passive and often negative to increased equality. For anyone who reads the reservation, the positions of the Right and Moderates are very clear. In addition, with regard to the analysis of Brexit by the Moderates, it is reserved that the EU should engage in Brexit negotiations, instead of engaging in trifles such as equality. It can be said that if we have a party, especially a party which claims to be government formation, which cannot do more than one thing at a time, it is no wonder that such a party cannot rule either. Then they say that to handle Brexit, you should continue as before, not do social crap. I'm just wondering, a little by side: an EU policy that leads to a Brexit, and the Moderates' analysis is that you shouldn't change anything – it should be about the EU's internal market, as it says in the reservation – what did they think then? It is important to ask that question. We Social Democrats are doing a completely different analysis of Brexit, I can say. We are absolutely convinced that if Europe is not able to cope with the social dimension – the whole life and dreams of man – we will have a continuing disintegration of the European Union. For me, as a friend of Europe, such a development is not positive. Overall, there is an alarming trend in the Moderates, which is becoming increasingly anti-European. It is a party that claims to be state-supporting, but now they are landing in increasingly extreme positions. The government states in its review of the case that a clear shift in Moderate positions on European issues can be seen. From being a reasonably liberal and pro-European party in the past, they sink into a reactionary and anti-European policy. This is deeply worrying, Mr President. With regard to the second reservation, from the Swedish Democrats, I am among those who try to read reservations from my political opponents with a positive mind. I do not want to try to find the negative entrances, but rather to interpret things in a positive way. It seems that the development within the Swedish Democrats is possibly the opposite. In his speech, Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström spoke, among other things, about the EU developing in the wrong direction. So if we look at this positively, there was a right direction from which we came. When I try to interpret the attitude of the Swedish Democrats towards Europe on the basis of which party they are, I see that their view may have changed and that it is not as hostile to Europe as it has been in the past. This will be interesting, Mr President. Could it possibly be that the Swedish Democrats are coming through the door and that they are meeting the Moderates on their way out of the door when it comes to European politics? I hear myself when I say that it sounds like a completely strange and strange development, but in the world today strange and strange things happen. I do not really know how to interpret the European policy of the Swedish Democrats. It is clear, however, that moderate European policy is becoming more and more reactionary and anti-European. I tried to interpret the European policy of the Swedish Democrats as at best unclear, that is to say in their case positive, but with regard to their attitude to gender equality, I would say that there they are reliablely reactionary. They do not want equality; they even want to preserve old, outdated gender standards, which is clear if you read their reservation. For those who listened to the previous debate on discrimination, it is crystal clear that the Swedish Democrats are pursuing their reactionary and racist attitude. In addition, traditional gender norms should only be reserved for Swedes. This was very clear in the previous debate. It is, as I said, a predictable position, but it is no less bizarre for it.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-494	Mr President, I would like to Patrik Björck is taking on so that he almost cracks when it comes to hugging the EU – what the EU has the ability and what the EU can do. We in the Christian Democrats are traditionally great advocates of the EU and EU cooperation. We believe it has many merits. But we have also always upheld the principle of subsidiarity, that is, that the EU should enter where its own countries do not have their own responsibilities. These include climate policy and the fight against terrorism. But we also need to be very careful in all these parts about what we are handing over to the European Union. The Treaty of Lisbon was good, because it gave us in Parliament the opportunity to actually test the Commission's proposal. It has given us increased influence as citizens. That's good. We sat with the government and negotiated on, for example, trying to prevent Brexit by giving the British an opportunity, for example, to make exceptions for the payment of child benefits and so on. On this I have been in negotiations with Patrik Björck's colleagues in government. Now we see that we are going into further issues where we are going to regulate in detail. Is this really the way to go? Are we not in danger of having even more discussion on detailed issues rather than on the main features? Today we met the Minister for Labour in committee. She could not answer if this means that there will be improvements or deteriorations for Swedish workers. Yet you think this is a good proposal, that is to say, to move forward with the detailed management of the European Union in the field of labour market. I am surprised that a former trade unionist thinks that the EU should decide on different leave days instead of taking care of it ourselves in the Swedish labour market. How can Patrik Björck think this is a good development?
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-500	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I thought I was quite clear about what the government and the Commission said, and I did not repeat everything that was in the report. There are already provisions on parental leave and maternity leave directives giving entitlement to leave and compensation. There is also a more in-depth review by the Commission and the government as to why this proposal is considered reasonable in a subsidiarity test. What emerged from the committee's examination today is that the government will come back to how it views the proposals on the basis that they need to be clarified in detail. Nevertheless, I believe that Mrs Pethrus was told quite clearly by the Minister just a few hours ago at the committee meeting. That's why I might not repeat it either. But what distinguishes us, and what is so clear in the reservation that Mrs Pethrus is behind, is that it is analysed that what is happening now in European cooperation does not require a social dimension. It is with regard to what is argued for in this reservation that we differ. We are absolutely convinced that if we do not increase gender equality in the EU, we will have concerns, not just with the economy and development across the board. We will also have concerns about people's attitudes to whether or not European cooperation brings anything. It is particularly with regard to this analysis that we differ. We are absolutely convinced that business as usual, as pointed out in this reservation, will not lead to greater equality. Now we have heard – perhaps not from the Désirée Pethrus party but from the Moderates – that it does not even believe that parental leave law affects women's participation in the labour market. We do not share this analysis.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-506	Mr President, I would like to We invested heavily in the development of gender equality – over 2 billion – during the bourgeois reign. There is probably no uncertainty in this area. I think we are all in favour of the social dimension. We already have very many different protection directives for workers in the labour market. We also already have a parental leave directive. And gender equality has a fundamental value in the EU. We are all behind this. It is true that we have the right to parental leave, and that is great. But if the EU is now going to go in and govern in detail exactly how we are going to distribute parental insurance in all its parts, what is the end of the EU? The question is whether Patrik Björck and the Social Democrats are moving towards a federal Europe, where the supranationality of the European Union will mean that power in the social policy field will be handed over to the European Union. That is what this debate on the subsidiarity test is about in my view. I would like to put a question to Patrik Björck as a trade unionist, because he says that he is trying to interpret things a little positively. Would it not be better for the social partners to look at which days should be available and so on? We know that every day off affects the competitiveness of the Swedish labour market. This affects our labour market and the way we are able to develop our labour market and make Sweden a winning concept economically. Does Patrik Björck not see any threat as the EU is beginning to take over this policy in terms of how to regulate leave on the labour market?
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-510	Mr President, I would like to No, the threat picture is about the Swedish right-wing parties' eternal resistance to gender equality. They have at any given time been against the reforms that have increased women's participation in the labour market. We Social Democrats know that it is by far the most important reform of freedom and gender equality that women have access to the labour market, that they can gain their own income and livelihood and that they can manage their lives even as old when they receive a pension that works. We must constantly take measures to facilitate and improve that gender equality reform. There, parental leave legislation is a very important point for us. We have heard that one of the alliance parties now claims that the parental leave law is not important and does not affect women's participation in the labour market. With this attitude, we understand that these issues are being taken lightly. We also know where the Christian Democrats stand in family policy. There has never been a policy of increasing women's participation in the labour market. We Social Democrats see this as a major threat. If there were to be a better relationship in the European labour market in terms of women's labour market participation, we would be raising the whole European labour market and the economy. This would also benefit Sweden. I am absolutely convinced that this would be the right way to go. As regards how this is to be designed in detail, we will proceed with this process. The minister will come back to committee. And the government has not yet taken a position on how to deal with the proposals that are coming, as there are a large number of question marks to correct. However, there is no question mark to correct if what Mrs Pethrus did not listen to in committee, namely that this would mean some kind of ceiling. On the contrary, it was very clear that there could be better conditions for family care, for example. This response has been given to Mrs Pethrus.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-516	Mr President, I would like to This is a rather odd debate. It should be a very concrete test of subsidiarity to assess whether a particular measure should be taken at EU level and whether the action envisaged can not be sufficiently achieved by the Member States. It is therefore necessary to take into account whether the scope and impact can be better achieved at Union level. Then it is in itself another matter to assess the substance of the proposal itself. There are, of course, situations where there is good reason to question the appropriateness of rules at European level. However, as the committee points out, there is already a legal framework at European level on what is called a work-life balance. It is a question of making the directive more modern and effective at the same level within the existing framework. The Directive also relates to existing leave schemes and is open to Member States, and the social partners in the Member States, to adopt specific provisions. Those are the main features. In this way, as has been said here before, there will be minimum standards rather than detailed regulation of the issues. We think that is reasonable. The Left is an EU-critical party and, as such, is particularly concerned with dealing with EU-related issues concretely and constructively rather than having a naive hurling attitude to the processes in Brussels, which is quite common among many parties in this House as well. Here we see the potential for European regulations that still affect policies and social life in the Union to move in the right direction, that is to say, strengthening gender equality in Europe. The reservations from the right-wing parties appear quite illogical in this context. The argument that the Union should take the Brexit decision as revenue in order to work more with repression and limited asylum law – what we call cooperation against terrorism and for a sustainable migration policy – is not something we are up to. Rather, this seems to be a way of taking on board, as it were, other conservative and reactionary political forces across Europe. That is why, like the majority of the committee, we believe that Parliament should not give a reasoned opinion. That does not mean, let us stress, that we are leaving carte blanche with regard to the final content of the directive. As has also been the case several times, we have had discussions on the substance of the matter this morning. The Government pointed out that there is currently a need to await further information from the Commission in order, inter alia, to analyse how the proposal relates to the role of the parties. It is about what different time limits really mean, and it is about the issue of care for dependants and how one should ultimately look at it. When you talk about compensation and about the right to flexible working time regulations, these are issues that need to be sorted out before you put your foot down. These are assessments that we agree with, that is to say that we have to sort this out before we can take a final position. It will therefore not be appropriate for us as a feminist party to applaud a final proposal if it creates obstacles to the work of gender equality in Sweden. However, we do not share any assessment of subsidiarity that says that this process must be stopped now; there we are in the same line as the government parties.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-525	Mr President, I would like to I had intended not to go up in the speaker's chair on this matter, but then came Patrik Björck. In some form of revolutionary euphoria he lost both the thread and the factuality and claimed things about what both we Moderates and others stand for and which are not directly wrong. I think that the debate here should be on this particular issue, and that is a test of subsidiarity. There are many issues that we Moderates think the EU should not deal with. On the other hand, our basic position is that EU cooperation is something that is very good. However, if we are to have popular support, political support and a functioning Union, we need to do the right thing in the right place. That is why we have the subsidiarity tests. In the same way that I think the right things should be done at EU level, I think that the right things should be done here in Parliament, and in some parts it should be done at regional or local level. There are lots of questions on my home turf in Värmland that I want to prevent in every way end up here so that Patrik Björck will be involved in making decisions about them, but this is a subsidiarity test when it comes to parental insurance. Parental insurance is an issue that we Moderates do not think is at European level. With regard to Brexit and other parts, we believe that, if we are to ensure that it has support, the EU should do what it is good at. It is to be decided at EU level on the things that are relevant at EU level. So, of course, both when listening to the European Commission and when listening to Patrik Björck, you can wonder if there is a question that is too small for Patrik Björck to think that it should be transferred to EU level. If you have a government you do not believe in, I understand that you can pass it on, because you think the decisions will then be better. I believe, however, that it is important that we retain many decisions at national level, and it is possible to combine with genuine support for certain issues to be dealt with at European level and for Europe to have a fundamental role to play.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-529	Mr President, I would like to Christian Holm Barenfeld thinks that we should discuss the subsidiarity test, and we fully agree on that. However, there is a reservation in the statement that deals with the very points I made. Nevertheless, I think I have a duty to react to that reservation so that there is a reasonable debate; I cannot discuss anything else. That would've been weird. There is something that makes me worried, apart from the general tendency that the Moderates are a party on the line not only in public opinion but, of course, above all in politics. The reason and effect is obviously the reverse – voters feel that the Moderates are wobbly and woeful and have lost their footing. Then, of course, you also lose your opinion. In fact, I can learn to live with the Moderates' loss of opinion, Mr President, but what makes me worried is that the party that is in any way trying to present itself as the leading party – even if it is now up for discussion about the Moderates – is indeed, but it is being tried so far to pretend that – lands in such a line. I would describe it as a deeply reactionary English right line, or tory line. In the past it has been more conservative at European level, with a slightly more liberal connection and more European-friendly. It is a worrying shift in politics. It is not good for Europe, Mr President, and it is not good for Sweden. I am deeply concerned – not for the Moderates, but for Sweden.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-533	Mr President, I would like to I am not at all concerned about the attitude of the Moderates on this issue. Judging by Patrik Björck's revolutionary contribution, the basis is this: the more socialism and the more questions you can push on Europe, the better. I think that Europe should be strong, good and effective in the areas where it should decide, but there should be watertight shots between what is EU competence and what is not. I do not think that parental insurance should be a competence at European level – in the same way that I do not want British, Polish or other more conservative countries to decide on Swedish abortion rights, for example. On the other hand, with regard to the internal market, free trade and freedom of movement, I think we have a lot to gain at European level. So it is not about that, and I think that the Moderates are clear. We have been clear for many years. In fact, the Moderates were the first party to take a stand for Swedish EU membership, and we are still standing there today. Just as we are concerned when Sweden has a government that does not deliver – a government that does the wrong things – we naturally also want to change and improve when the EU does the wrong things. One of the elements we want to ensure is that the right thing is done in the right place, and that is where the subsidiarity test is important.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-537	Mr President, I would like to The last thing I can agree with Christian Barenfeld, that is to say that the subsidiarity test is important. I have also explained how and why the Commission and the Government have come to the view in the subsidiarity test, namely that these are issues that are already regulated at European level. Then it is reasonable to have taken that position in the past that the Moderates have not objected to. In that particular part we can land in different conclusions. I myself think it is quite clear that the arguments of the Commission and the Government are valid. What I am presenting is based on the text presented by the Moderates in reservation 1. Now Christian Holm Barenfeld in the speaker's chair says he wants changes, but there is nothing about this in the reservation. That is what I am pointing out, Mr President. The reservation states that, as in the past, it should be about the EU's internal market. You do the analysis that it's business as usual. Great changes are taking place in the world, such as protectionism, Brexit and Trump in the United States. Things are happening that we have to react to and with, and that we have to deal with from a new situation. We have a moderate party, Mr President, which is paralyzed by attempted coups, internal frictions and falling opinion numbers and is unable to react in a new world and situation. Instead, it is written that it is business as usual in a document here in the Swedish Parliament. At the risk of repeating myself: I am deeply concerned, Mr President.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-544	Mr President, I would like to It does not worry me in the least that Patrik Björck is deeply concerned. I entered this debate because I thought we were getting a long way off the subject. I guess I'll have to say that we Moderates, in ordinary order, are much better at describing what we Moderates want than Patrik Björck is. I maintain what I said earlier on this particular issue. I think that both the European Commission and Patrik Björck and the government are somewhat tone-deaf in terms of what the EU should do in the future. My conclusion, having seen the trends that we can see and having seen Brexit and other things, is not that we should ensure that the European Commission gets more to do with the number of data. I do not believe that we should transfer more power from our national parliaments to the European Union. I think that we should make sure that we are pure and that we ensure that Europe delivers strong, good and effective in the areas to be dealt with at European level. What we are discussing today is not something that belongs at European level. Therefore, we Moderates are clear, and we will continue to be.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-549	Mr President, I would like to This debate will be about drones, but it will still not be about drones but about the camera that is attached to such drones. This is due to a judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court some time ago, which had examined two different types of cameras and their legal status. One had tried a so-called Dash cam, which is mounted on a car, usually inside the windshield in the vicinity of the driver, and one camera attached to drones. The Supreme Administrative Court concluded that no permit is needed for dash cams, in accordance with the Camera Surveillance Act, but that permits are needed for drones. This has prompted a discussion. There are many legitimate purposes and many good benefits, ranging from airborne industries to law enforcement. It is absolutely true that there are a variety of benefits with the new technology. We have therefore agreed with the government to ensure that an exemption rule is introduced in the Camera Surveillance Act. This is quite natural, not least because we will have a new data protection regulation that will come into force in less than a year. Authorisation will not be possible in the future, and therefore it is just as good to tear off the patch at once, not least to ensure that during this time there is a possibility for legitimate and good purposes to be able to use cameras attached to drones. But, Mr President, the coin always has two sides. New technologies offer new opportunities, but they also create new risks. There are objections to this. There are objections to some of our major car companies, which are now experiencing an increase in corporate espionage, not least when finalising their products in areas that are closed to the public. There are warning calls regarding how this type of drone may be used in, for example, a terrorist attack, since many of them are very potent and can carry deadly loads. There are definite objections to personal integrity. There's a reason for the warning flag. Drones are cheap and easy to get. Many of them are gaining greater reach, and the camera resolution is very high. They're very potent. It's perfectly possible with drones to get close to a bedroom window. Many of us have probably already been annoyed by drones flying over beaches. This is interference with personal integrity. It is not something that is done by state power, but by each one for his own pleasure. It is quite possible to fly over prison centres, as has happened in the past with the smuggling of drugs, for example. It is also perfectly possible to fly over suspended areas, such as a psychiatric clinic, and take pictures of the people staying there. It's a threat to personal integrity. In this debate it has been stated that it should be possible to make an exception for the police. We share that view. There is every reason for this. Not least in the talks on terrorism, we have agreed that it must be easier for the police to set up cameras and use camera surveillance. In this case, the amendment to the law – this exception rule – is due to a change in the General Data Protection Regulation. The police have to comply with what is called the Data Protection Directive, and it must be taken in a different order. Recently there was an investigation into camera surveillance that leaves a degree of disappointment. However, I am pleased to note that there is going to be a move. It is urgent, and it is important to do so urgently. What we lack in the bill is a closer analysis of the problems that may arise in terms of personal integrity. During an exceptional period – only a number of months – the Personal Data Act will now apply. There will be less interventional rules that apply – the so-called abuse rule. It is very unclear how this rule should be applied during that time, but more serious is that there is no real analysis of how to regulate, provide information and ensure that the whole thing is handled properly in terms of privacy, not least when the GDPR comes into force. We see this as a major flaw. That is why a number of parties want to see that you go further and look at how personal integrity can be fully protected when licensing stops for cameras attached to drones. In fact, only three measures are mentioned in the bill, and they are mentioned without going into more detail on how to regulate this. It is said that there should be a clear marking of who the drone belongs to, that information should be given to individuals in the nearby area and that position lights should be used when it is dark. There has been a lot of criticism here, because these statements raise more questions than they answer. What does labelling mean? Is it supposed to be a sticker on the drone, or is it supposed to be electronic marking? For the individual, it is impossible to determine who it belongs to. What does information for individuals in the nearby area mean? Is it going to be advertised or put up signs? What do you mean? And how extensive should the information be? As I said, we share the government's view that this exception rule should be introduced, but we believe that the government must return as soon as possible to clarify how personal integrity should be adequately protected. What needs to be clarified is what is a legitimate purpose. It also needs to be clarified where the dividing line goes between a commercial purpose and camera surveillance for the sake of entertainment. And what should the sanction system look like for those who engage in camera surveillance for the sake of entertainment and who can actually ensure that many people are hanged out in a way that is not supposed to hang them out? Returning to these rules does not conflict with legitimate purposes for many of those who have experienced problems with this. But it is very important in these times that we still remember that personal integrity must be protected. Many times it is not just a matter of protecting citizens from big brother seeing them, but just as often it is now a matter of ensuring that citizens are protected from little brother seeing them. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-572	Mr President, I would like to In the report on amendments to the Camera Surveillance Act concerning drones, the Swedish Democrats have a reservation. We have had quite a lot of opportunities here this spring to debate camera surveillance and, above all, the use of camera surveillance by authorities. Our attitude has always been that risks of breaches of privacy should not hamper the use of various forms of camera surveillance for crime prevention and law enforcement purposes. Our attitude, of course, does not differ with regard to the use of new technologies when there are risks of breaches of privacy. The starting point of society cannot be to regulate in every respect what citizens, businesses or perhaps associations can do and then strictly control the legal and the unproblematic. Instead, society should focus on clearly marking when someone is using new technology to commit crime in a new way. It's there somewhere we've landed in our reservation. The police authority has argued that it is unfortunate that authorities are not subject to the exemption on authorisation when using camera surveillance with so-called drones. The Swedish Democrats share this view. We believe that easier access to drones for police, for example, not only means more efficient working conditions but also leads the police to choose more often to use the technology. I would therefore like to conclude, with a little shorter speaking time than the announced one, by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation that authorities should also be covered by the exemption in the Camera Surveillance Act.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-577	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject the two reservations on the matter. Sometimes it goes a little fast in politics, sometimes it goes slow and sometimes it doesn't really go in pace. In this case, it is only four days since the government presented an investigation that actually touches all that we are talking about today when it comes to drones but also much else. The investigation into camera surveillance, which Morgan Johansson presented last Thursday's, takes a holistic approach to three major considerations, namely the need for monitoring, the need to use a certain technology for a particular purpose and the need for privacy for citizens. It is delicate and always will be, especially when technological developments go faster than the development of legislation and society. It's about drone technology in particular. Just ten years ago, I would not have thought that we would stand here and talk about a technology that allows individuals for hundreds of thousands to drive around with small cameras mounted on mini helicopters that drive around in both living rooms and out in the terrain. It is a completely new phenomenon historically. In order to cope with this rapid development, politics sometimes has to go a long way in order to move forward. The decision of the Supreme Administrative Court meant a rather wet blanket over an entire growth industry. There are thousands of people handling drones every year. They put in billions of dollars and provide many jobs. Above all, it is a fairly solid technological development we are talking about where Sweden is at the forefront. If we had not speeded up and changed the proposal and had it arrived today, it could in principle be a year and a half before commercial drone operations in the country had been given clear regulations enabling further development. Krister Hammarbergh raises issues of integrity and has a rather adequate argument, because we must of course ensure that people cannot be identified unless they are properly identified. What we believe, however, is that the Swedish Data Protection Authority, through its regular supervisory mandate, is able to produce regulations, instructions and trainings for county boards and others concerned with the issue of camera surveillance, as has always been done. One of the aims of this is to enable the industry to continue to develop, because the positive side of drone use for engineers, construction companies, rescue services, police, surveyors, agriculture and forestry is huge. And there is a huge potential for efficiency gains in these industries. This must, of course, be balanced against the risks. The risks of illicit use of terrorist attacks, espionage from foreign power and so on have been raised here today. The last word is not said on this issue, but it will continue to be investigated in a number of different investigations in the future, even when we are going to design our national regulations after the EU directives have come into being, at best in May 2018. You can be very philosophical when it comes to drones. But we are not going to be today, but we are going to try to see this as a simple and practical solution as possible. The Personal Data Act is temporary, even if it is old, to protect personal privacy. That is the government's firm opinion on the matter.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-588	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we agree to implement this exemption rule, because there are many good businesses that need it, and there is no reason to slow down a growing industry that can mean many new jobs. However, I am pleased that Petter Löberg is, in any case, briefly stating that there are problems with it. I am a little concerned when I see the committee's position, because in principle personal integrity is not mentioned there at all. You get past the subject. I have to ask Petter Löberg: What do you think of the time after the Personal Data Act ends in May next year? Is there a need for regulation? Does Petter Löberg see the need for someone who gets a camera soon to receive guidance on how to use it and not? And can Petter Löberg see a need for guidance on how the person who feels they have been violated should be able to move on? This knowledge is not in the public domain. But it is quite obvious in the referral that the knowledge is not in our authorities either, and then it will be difficult for the individual. Does Petter Löberg, like us, not think that it is necessary to continue working on this issue and to provide adequate protection for personal privacy?
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-593	Madam President, I would like In May next year, the EU rules will cloud the temporary rules that we are going to decide on here today. This means that until the European directives come into being, we must draw up our own national regulations, which must, of course, take account of the privacy issues that have been touched on in this House today – of course. Then I have the greatest confidence that the Swedish Data Protection Authority is able to inform the responsible authorities that will ensure compliance with the law in an educational and good way. It is mentioned in the bill that you can, for example, label vehicles, that you can have daytime running lights and other things, but of course that is not enough. This is an application issue that the agency will have to work on for quite a long time, even after the EU directives have been put in place, as in all other legislative and regulatory matters. I do not think we have the answer in this House, but I believe that we have a common ambition to find good solutions so that a regulatory framework can be put in place. Until May next year, the Swedish Data Protection Authority will be able to apply this in a good way.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-597	Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that the authorities must be clear how this is to be used. But a prerequisite for it to work is that users know how to use it. We need to have clearer regulations here. Petter Löberg refers to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Two weeks ago, the Privacy Protection Committee presented its report and stated that the Swedish Data Protection Authority does not have these resources today. In principle, no controls are carried out at all because the Swedish Data Protection Authority has received more and more data. But Petter Löberg says that he has complete confidence that these inspections will take place. If there is a shortage of resources, how does Petter Löberg expect the Swedish Data Protection Authority to control the thousands of private users who use camera surveillance for the sake of entertainment? I do not take this matter lightly. The government has set up a number of investigations into the threat from drones in terms of protection. That's a good thing. But so far no investigation has been set up regarding personal integrity. Doesn't Petter Löberg think it's time for us to make it to May next year?
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-602	Madam President, I would like Licensing authorities generally have two missions. One is to clarify the rules so that they are complied with. In this respect, you can train, inform on the website and send out educational material that makes it clear to users of drones, the general public and hobby pilots what the regulations are. This and the exemplifications of what is permitted and not allowed under, among other things, the Swedish Data Protection Authority's resources do not burden very much but can be done relatively easily. I am absolutely sure that commercial companies, which we are talking about mainly today, will be able to absorb this information in a sensible and good way. The second task is the supervisory part. Of course, the Swedish Data Protection Authority cannot supervise all the thousands of cases where someone buys a drone for Christmas to their children who then fly around with it in the residential area. It is neither an ambition nor realistic for a licensing authority to do so, but the weight of information here. In the past, major efforts have been made in relation to the camera monitoring law, and I hope that will be done in future.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-606	Madam President, I would like Secret coercive measures are a balancing act in judicial policy. On the one hand, it is an excellent tool for the police to obtain evidence and strength of crime; on the other hand, it is a major breach of privacy. The Government wants to extend a limited-term law so that it will apply until 2019. That's not a good idea. The Recovery Act is a secret coercive agent used before a preliminary investigation has begun. In other words, it differs from other secret coercive measures used during the pre-trial investigation. This means that the Recovery Act approves a major interference in the personal integrity of persons who are not yet suspected of a crime. Sometimes it is necessary, but then the regulation must be solid and the control great. The person verifying compliance with the Recovery Act is the Swedish Security and Privacy Protection Board, SIN. Its inspection of the Security Service shows that Säpo has entered incomplete criminal offences and used the wrong provisions in the Recovery Act. It is of great importance that the law is properly used by law enforcement authorities as it constitutes a major breach of privacy for persons to be subjected to this coercive measure. This is not the first time that SIN criticizes Säpo for misusing the law. The Council is critical and does not support the Government's proposal, which is serious. The government has not sufficiently analysed how the Recovery Act relates to the Court of Justice's judgment on data storage. The Law Council is critical and the Bar Association is also critical. Authorities using the Recovery Act do not correctly comply with the provisions of the Act. In order to legislate, there is a need for investigation, analysis and consistency. The authorities must be able to use the law correctly. None of this is in this bill. Not only does the Left Party think so, but also the Law Council, and then it is serious. I therefore call for the proposal to be rejected and for the reservation to be approved.
i-NsEL7FyTXt8LQu4Smo8a2V	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservation. The law on the collection of electronic communications data in the intelligence activities of law enforcement authorities, that is to say, what we are discussing today, regulates the conditions for the Police Authority, the Security Police and the Customs Authority to collect in intelligence activities monitoring data on electronic communications from telecommunications operators. Data may, in general, be collected if the circumstances are such that the measure is of particular importance for the prevention, prevention or detection of criminal activities involving offences with a minimum of imprisonment of at least two years. The collection of data is also possible in criminal activities involving certain specifically defined socially dangerous crimes within the responsibility of the Security Service, with a lower minimum of penalties than imprisonment for two years, such as sabotage and espionage – according to Section 3 of the Act. There has been limited validity for this particular paragraph. It has been extended three times, and now it is time to extend it again. The data storage investigation has evaluated the collection act and analysed the Security Service's need for an opportunity under the law to collect information on criminal activities involving certain socially dangerous crimes. The investigation proposes, among other things, that the fixed-term provision in Section 3 of the Recovery Act should be made permanent and that data should be collected for more types of criminal activity than is possible today. The report has been referred to and prepared by the Government Office. The EU Court of Justice has clarified in a judgment in 2016 that Swedish data storage regulation is not in line with EU law, including regarding law enforcement access to stored data on electronic communications. Against this background, the Government has appointed a special investigator to review the regulatory framework and propose the necessary changes. The investigation shall report on its mission by 9 October 2017. The final position on the validity and format of the collection rules will be influenced by the proposals that the Investigation on Data Storage and EU law are expected to make. This legislative work is not deemed to be completed before the end of the period of validity of Section 3. The Government therefore proposes to extend the validity of this paragraph until the end of 2019. The Government states in the bill that it would of course be preferable to deal with the Data Storage Investigation's proposal and the proposals that the Investigation on Data Storage and EU law may put into context and not to change anything in the regulatory framework before. However, such legislative work cannot be carried out before the expiry of the validity of the fixed-term provision of the Recovery Act. The question then arises whether a new extension should be made pending a comprehensive review or whether the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union should be seen as an obstacle to such an extension. The views of the referral bodies have differed on this issue. The government has pointed out the following. The Security Service clearly needs to be provided with information to carry out counter-intelligence activities and work against terrorism. The Legislative Council, in turn, argues that this is not sufficient as a reason to maintain a regulation of the law, the admissibility of which is uncertain. Indeed, the Government agrees that it is essential if the extension is compatible with Union law. With regard to activities carried out by the Security Service, it should be noted that, according to the Court of Justice of the European Union, there is more scope than other areas for accessing stored data when vital interests of national security are threatened by terrorism and there are objective circumstances which give reason to believe that, in a concrete case, the data could effectively contribute to the fight against terrorism. According to the Government, these statements by the EU Court of Justice must mean that, even after the judgment, there is room for collecting information to prevent, prevent or detect the criminal activities referred to in Section 3. The extent of this space and the necessary changes will be further analysed by the Investigation on Data Storage and EU law. In order not to impair the Swedish Security Service's ability to prevent, prevent and detect harmful crime, which could cause serious harm to national security, the Government considers that the Swedish Security Service's ability to obtain information under Section 3 should be extended until 31 December 2019. Like the government, the committee believes that it is important to achieve a balanced regulation of the use of coercive measures that is stable over time. The government has set up two investigations that leave each of its reports, and another investigation is set up to look at compliance with EU law. The committee shares the government's view that the proposal of the Data Storage Investigation and the proposals that the Investigation of Data Storage and EU law may propose should be considered in a context, and understands that such legislative work cannot be carried out before the expiry of the validity of the time-limited provision. The Government has also well justified the needs of the Swedish Security Service, and the Swedish Security and Privacy Protection Board obviously has an important role to play in ensuring that the rules for protecting personal privacy are complied with. The committee does not believe that the Security and Privacy Protection Board's criticism of the application of the Security Service is of such a serious nature that it would now impede the proposed legislation. The Bar Association is an extremely confidential organisation, and that is a good thing, but one can sometimes reflect on the concerns of the Bar Association regarding whose privacy it is about protecting. Is it the victims or the future bandit that you want to protect? That the Law Council advises against it happens from time to time. I have here a list of examples from the last few years. This applies, for example, to the handling of criminal cases after forensic psychiatric investigation, equalisation systems for municipalities and county councils, an environmental code, basic cash services, certain measures against illegal weapons and offensive photography. Not always obeying the Law Council, I do not see as a reason why we should not implement this legislation.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-631	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for approval of the proposal and therefore the proposal in the committee's report and rejection of the motion. When it comes to the background and the conditions for when the 3 § pick-up act can be used, I skip it, because I think it has been well explained just now. You could say that in the best of worlds nothing happens that makes you need a pick-up team. In the best of worlds you can do everything in the right order because there is nothing to prevent or interest that is so strong that it is not possible to do things in the right order. It is quite obvious, given how terrorism has developed in the world, that we do not live in the best of worlds. In that case, it would have been different. The dilemma is whether this provision, which has been extended a number of times in the past and which an investigation has proposed, should be made permanent and, moreover, extended to more crimes of a social nature, would not be extended because we have to do things in the right order. Linda Snecker mentioned this with balance, and that is quite right. I share that view. It must always be a balance or a balance between different interests. In this case, I would like to say that it is clear that the need for counter-intelligence activities and anti-terrorist work that exist, including within the Security Service, weighs very heavily. That is why we have this type of legislation at all. Otherwise, it would not be justified. Since it is then impossible to deal with the previous Data Storage Investigation and the proposals to come from the Investigation on Data Storage and EU law at the same time and before the validity of this time-limited provision expires, I believe in an overall assessment that the proposal submitted by the government here is well balanced. It is important to bear in mind, and this applies to all legal applications, that the prerequisite for collecting information under both this rule and any other rules which are not limited in time, which are currently in force and which could conflict with the European Court of Justice's preliminary ruling, should be interpreted in the light of that preliminary ruling. It is also important that this area, which relates to Sweden's security – an area that, among other things, the Swedish Security Service works with – is outside the area where the EU has competence because it specifically concerns Sweden's national interests. It can also be seen in the light of the fact that the Court of Justice of the European Union has stated that there is more scope than other areas to access stored data if such interests are threatened. In addition, the Court of Justice of the European Union states that, in justified urgent cases, national competent authorities would have access to stored data without prior control by a court or an independent authority. If you see this as a whole, you have to conclude that the judgment does not eliminate the possibility of collecting data under Section 3. However, it is not possible to say exactly what implications this judgment has on the regulatory framework itself. I suppose that will come out in these two investigations, one of which has been completed and the other has been appointed. Consequently, there is no reason not to extend the period of validity of the provision. I therefore call for the proposal to be approved.
i-JeToskEXmv14ZhKrZcWMBs	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the SoU13 report. The report deals with the Government's proposal Cooperation on healthcare, support and treatment against gambling abuse. In addition, six applications for exercise are dealt with as a result of the bill and three demands for exercise from the general exercise period. The Government proposes in the bill that the Social Welfare Board's responsibility to prevent and counteract the abuse of substances be extended to include the abuse of gambling for money. In addition, in the case of children and young people, a specific provision is proposed for the Social Welfare Board to actively work to prevent and combat the abuse of gambling. Thus, as with alcohol abuse and other addictive substances, the National Board of Health and Welfare, according to the Government's proposal, is to assist with efforts or try to motivate gambling addicts who need support, care and treatment efforts to seek help to overcome their problems. When it comes to children and young people, the Social Welfare Board should work actively to prevent and combat abuse of gambling about money. The Government also proposes that the requirement for an agreement on cooperation between municipalities and county councils regarding people who abuse substances should also include people who abuse gambling. In addition, the Government proposes that the responsibility of health care to pay particular attention to a child's need for information, advice and support should also include when the child's parent or someone else with whom the child lives permanently has an abuse of gambling, in the same way as in the case of abuse of alcohol or other addictive substances.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-645	Madam President, I would like Today, 76 000 children live in a family where one of the parents is a gambling addict, and 260 000 people are directly affected, according to figures from the National Association of Gambling Addiction. According to data from the Parliamentary Investigation Service, around 2 per cent of the population aged 15 to 74 years suffer from gambling addiction, and an additional 7 to 8 per cent have risky gambling habits. This corresponds to about 130 000 gambling addicts who have difficulty controlling their gambling and where gambling has had serious consequences. Abuse makes people extremely vulnerable and involves many, not just the abuser. Many borders are crossed without close relatives, friends and the rest of society paying full attention to it, not least taking hold of it. Money is often a major problem for gambling addicts. It is often the only sign of abuse. However, with increased abuse, the social situation can quickly become unsustainable. Abuse is often revealed only when the private economy is close to collapse. We in the alliance parties support the Government's proposal to amend the Social Services Act and to amend the Health Care Act. These proposals, which, among other things, require an agreement on cooperation between municipalities and county councils, also for people who abuse gambling, are good but not sufficient. We believe that the provisions of the Social Services Act and the Health Care Act on the obligation of the principals to sign agreements on cooperation between people with abuse were a good start. They are of the utmost importance when it comes to people who abuse gambling. However, no details on how responsibilities are to be shared among the principals in the agreements or which activities are to be carried out have been specified. The Swedish Agency for Health and Welfare Analysis's report The agreement is clear that not enough municipalities have signed such agreements. It is now time to take further steps. We therefore propose making it mandatory for the authorities to conclude cooperation agreements with regard to the intervention and care of people who abuse gambling. The aim is for no one to run the risk of falling between the responsibilities of different authorities in terms of interventions and care. In addition, the importance of a coherent chain of care and social interventions in drug and addiction care should be emphasised. It should be clear to the abuser of gambling how he or she can get the necessary help and care. Finally, we propose that the Agency for Health and Care Analysis should be given a mandate to continuously monitor and analyse the results of the collaboration agreement. Madam President, I would like With these words, I would like to endorse our reservation 2.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-653	Madam President, I would like It is a good thing that we today have the opportunity to discuss in Parliament a further part of the complex of addiction diseases. It's gambling abuse. Until now, when we can make this parliamentary decision, it has been unclear who is actually responsible for treating, supporting and helping those who are trapped in gambling abuse. This is a process that has been going on for some time. We are several parties that have been driving. That is why this is a major and important step. One of the major problems remains, however, with regard to addiction diseases as a whole. That's why the Alliance has insisted on trying to bridge it over. In Sweden we have an anomaly; in the case of all other diseases it is the health care principal who is responsible for treatment. But especially when it comes to addiction diseases – then I'm not just talking about gambling addiction, but about all addiction diseases – the municipalities have been responsible. The Alliance has tried to overcome it through demands. I therefore call for the Alliance's joint reservation to be approved. But I also support Mr Westerholm's reservation, which also includes the committee motion put forward by the Center Party. We have the view, as regards all addiction diseases, that it should be the health care principal, i.e. the county council, who has the main responsibility for the treatment. For many disease groups, extensive efforts are also required from the municipality, not least the municipal social services. This applies to dementia, to mental illness, but also to addiction diseases. It would therefore be natural, as with other diseases, to be able to say that, in the case of addiction diseases, it is the primary responsibility of the health care provider. But it should of course be a close collaboration with the municipalities and social services. Madam President, I would like Therefore, with regard to this important proposal, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1 and reservation 2. It is with pleasure that I can say that I hope that, at the vote today, we can take the step and ensure that those who are stuck in addiction diseases, such as gambling abuse, can clearly identify who is responsible for treating it.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-660	Madam President, I would like I shall not repeat the content of the report. Amir Adan did a good accounting. Gambling addiction is a public health problem. When we dealt with this in this House for the first time, Karin Israelsson from Cen tern and I presented her own motion. We were called moraltants and all sorts of things. Wouldn't you be allowed to play Hello Jack and Casino and such; this was ridiculous. ..................................................... But then there was a big survey. Turns out this is a public health problem. This has been brought up to date, but not sufficiently. With this bill and this report, we show that we take this seriously and that the Social Affairs Board is responsible for drawing attention to the issue. However, it is not strong enough written, we think. We have therefore placed an alliance-wide reservation on mandatory cooperation agreements to ensure that municipalities and county councils move in line here. According to the Liberals, being dependent is equal to having a disease. Anders W Jonsson also mentioned this – it is nice that the Liberals are supported by the Center. And we believe that it is the health care system that is best placed to have the main responsibility here. In healthcare, treatment should, by tradition, be evidence-based. It is not as well expressed in social services. I regret that Gerhard Larsson's investigation, which came about five years ago, has not yet seen the light of day in this House. It depends on different opinions in the referral. But a government has a responsibility to put its foot down. This applies both to the alliance government and to the current government. That responsibility must be taken. With this, I would like to ask for reservation 1 in paragraph 2 and for the alliance motion. Normally, we only agree to one reservation, but now I am in favour of two.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-667	Madam President, I would like I agree with reservation No 2 from the Alliance. We are today debating collaboration on care, support and treatment against gambling abuse. It is an extremely important area in view of the personal tragedies affecting adults, children, families and relatives. A person with experience in this area calls gambling addiction the new heroin. It might say something about what it's about. We alliance parties support the Government's intentions and proposals for a law amending the Social Services Act and amending the Health Care Act, but we want more. The Government's proposal requires, among other things, an agreement on cooperation between the municipalities and county councils also for people who abuse gambling. It also extends the responsibility of health care to take into account a child's need for information, advice and support if the child's parent, or any other adult with whom the child lives permanently, is an addict. This also applies to gambling abuse. This last one with the kids, I think it's a very positive one. However, we would like to emphasise some elements even more in order for this to be effective and to produce results. We Christian Democrats and other alliance parties propose making it mandatory for the principals to conclude cooperation agreements with regard to the intervention and care of people who abuse gambling. The aim is for no one to run the risk of falling between the responsibilities of different authorities in terms of interventions and care. We also believe that the importance of a coherent care chain and social interventions in drug and addiction care should be emphasised. It should be clear to the abuser of gambling how he or she can get the necessary help and care. Madam President, I would like My alliance colleagues have described the alliance parties' views on the various parts in a commendable way. But I would like to mention another perspective that is about gambling, namely how you are affected by the gambling and the factors behind it. Of course, the focus should be on the people, adults and children, who are affected by the negative sides of gambling. It should be said that there is a gambling that stops at pure pleasure and does not accelerate to a personal trauma. But those who create and fuel the need for too much gambling are the gaming companies. I would like to dwell on this source of private tragedy. The gaming companies often pick up people's financial vulnerability with lures of fast play with a short time between bet and outcome. Perhaps the most vulgar feature I've seen is, quit your job – buy a ticket! New players are tempted with free games and gifts while old players are convinced of new stakes to regain what has been lost. Celebrities do here and there advertising for gambling, which in turn leads to shine spread and to gambling being perceived as legitimate. Gambling destroys people's lives and destroys families. The Public Health Agency calculates – and now I have some other figures than those we heard a little earlier – that about 171 000 people, of which 82 000 are children, live with someone who has gambling problems. One in five persons reports that they have someone close to them who has gambling problems. The unregulated market is growing while gambling addiction is increasing. The Christian Democrats believe that it is high time to review legislation and enable competition through licences. I was in the reference group that worked with the Gaming License Investigation. The inquiry came at the end of March and has a referral period until 4 August. I hope there will be a bill at the beginning of next year so that we can make a decision. We agree fairly that there is a need for licensing of gaming companies in Sweden. The main proposal, therefore, is that the gaming companies, including those located abroad, should be included in a state-controlled licensing system requiring approval. Licenses also include a number of compensatory requirements, such as taxing the gaming companies' activities in the licensing country and compliance with the licensing country's marketing and gaming liability rules. The international online market is basically completely unregulated today and resembles the Wild West, so this will be a welcome change that we agree on across party boundaries. In practical terms, there are various suggestions for what can be done to prevent gambling abuse so that people do not end up in social services or health care. Instead, these problems should be prevented. Examples of proposals are: balanced marketing, that gambling should not be presented as the solution to financial problems, that subsidies should be used to prevent gambling abuse, that you should limit deposits and playing time, and that you should introduce an age limit of 18 for gambling. These proposals are also included in the investigation, and I hope that they will become a reality. The most important thing of all is what is happening today: if people fall into this diabolical grip of gambling abuse, they should be entitled to treatment under the Social Services Act. This is a milestone in the socio-economic political context. When we see an increasing number of individuals and families getting involved in gambling addiction and its consequences, action and targeted efforts are needed. In addition to today's important proposals, it is also a matter of different authorities having to collaborate in this work: the Public Health Agency, the Swedish Consumer Agency, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and the Swedish Lottery Inspectorate. An extremely important step is being taken in connection with what I look forward to us deciding today, namely the increased role of municipalities and county councils to cooperate on healthcare, support and treatment against gambling abuse.
i-65kRFY3yKuip6xQy9De6N5	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Parliament will now consider the Social Affairs Committee's report Cooperation on healthcare, support and treatment against gambling abuse. According to the Social Services Act, municipalities' social welfare boards currently have an obligation to work to prevent and combat abuse of alcohol and other addictive substances. They are also responsible for disseminating, through information to authorities, groups and individuals, knowledge of the harmful effects of abuse and of the means of assistance available. They should also actively work to prevent and counteract abuse among children and young people. Municipalities shall enter into agreements on cooperation with the county council regarding people who abuse addictive substances. Similarly, according to the Health Care Act, county councils must enter into agreements with municipalities on cooperation with people who abuse addictive substances. What the government has proposed and what the Committee on Social Affairs now supports in the report is that the social welfare committees' responsibility to work preventively and the municipalities and county councils' responsibility to sign agreements on people who abuse alcohol, drugs, medicines, doping substances or other addictive substances should also include abuse when it comes to gambling. The Government also proposes that county councils be given an extended responsibility for children's needs for information, advice and support if the child's parent or another adult with whom the child lives permanently is a gambling addict. These are urgent changes in legislation as many people today are caught up in widespread and devastating gambling abuse. On the subject of these legislative changes, the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment is in complete agreement. Madam President, I would like The report has two reservations. With regard to reservation 1 on the transfer of primary responsibility for drug and addiction care to health care, as the reservation shows, it is a proposal which the then bourgeois government did not implement because there was a great and massive resistance among many referral bodies. With regard to reservation 2 that it should be mandatory to conclude cooperation agreements between municipalities and county councils regarding measures for the care of people with substance abuse, it can be noted that both municipalities through the Social Services Act and county councils through the Health Care Act have for a number of years been obliged to sign such cooperation agreements. Madam President, I would like In the light of the above, I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-693	Madam President, I would like Hans Hoff and the Social Democrats quite simply reject the central question of how to view dependent diseases: Is it a disease that, like all other diseases, should be treated by the health care principal? Sweden differs significantly from almost all other countries. There is another OECD country where you have the principle that social services should treat addiction diseases while the health officer, the county council, should pay everyone else. Many people believe that this is one of the reasons why Sweden is losing results today, not least in terms of drug dependence but also in the other addiction diseases. According to Hans Hoffs's description, a large number of referrals said no to the proposal, but I know that the number was not so large. Only a small part of SKL, especially the municipal sector, and the Academic Association SSR were strongly opposed to the county councils being given responsibility. I would like to ask Hans Hoff why the Social Democrats continue to choose to treat these particular diseases in a special way and say that social services here should have the main responsibility, while in all other diseases, such as cancer, diabetes, mental diseases and dementia, the person responsible for science and proven experience, namely the health officer and the health services, should have the responsibility for treatment. What is the ideological basis for continuing to treat the people affected by an addiction?
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-697	Madam President, I would like I do not believe that there is any other ideological background than that of the bourgeois government when it tried the proposal to transfer it in the way that Anders W. Jonsson here says. The bourgeois government grappled with the question of whether it would proceed with the proposal made by Anders W Jonsson. However, it was chosen not to do so, including when there was widespread criticism of the whole thing. You are well aware, Anders, that for people who have extensive abuse of different kinds is not only about treatment, but also about many other actions that are within the municipal area of responsibility. That is why it is important to get the efforts for people into the cooperation agreements that we are now extending to include the abuse of gambling. We must put people at the centre of our attention. Many times it is about people in a very vulnerable situation. They are put at the centre by means of agreements to be able to go in with efforts from both health care and municipalities, employment services and other bodies in society to give these people a new future and a new opportunity to return to a dignified life.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-700	Madam President, I would like The reason why this has ended up with municipalities and social services is due to a discussion in Sweden from the early 70s. It was said then that addiction is only caused by social ills and if you correct these social ills, as you can do in social services, you get rid of addiction. This is the background to the fact that we have this very strange attitude in Sweden. Today, however, science agrees that this is about a disease just like other diseases. There is a strong genetic element and, of course, an environmental component. Today we see the need for both social and medical interventions. This is the case for several other disease groups. No one says that municipalities should have the main responsibility for, for example, dementia, mental illness or a number of neurological diseases, where there is also a need for major contributions from social services. It is therefore so tragic that the Social Democrats are stuck in not having the courage to take a stand. They do not dare to say that addiction is a disease like everyone else, and that this requires extensive efforts on the part of health care and, of course, close cooperation. No, the Social Democrats are prepared to point out this particular group and say that addiction is only due to environmental factors and that social services should have the main responsibility for treatment. I hope that the movement that now exists – not least within the SKL, where it is recognised that the municipalities cannot cope with this – will also lead to the Social Democrats reconsidering their position. The result of the attitude of the Social Democrats is that no further pre-amendments are made, and that is why, unfortunately, people do not receive the care to which they are entitled and to which people in most other countries are entitled.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-705	Madam President, I would like We have no vision other than what emerged from the test made in connection with the introduction by the bourgeois government of the legislative changes involving the signing of cooperation agreements. They were introduced four years ago, which is not really long ago. This is based on the knowledge that a person who is in an addiction situation has a complex life situation. This person needs both care and treatment, but also many other efforts to return to a dignified life. It is important to be able to get rid of your addiction, to be able to refrain from abuse and perhaps even to get a place to live. It depends a little on how far the addiction has gone. A lot of people don't even have a place to live. The issue is complex, and many people need to work together to find ways and, above all, to put people at the centre. The bourgeois government chose to proceed with what we are now strengthening with efforts for people who have an abuse of gambling. The activities work relatively well in the county councils and regions where this has been introduced.
i-TdCJ1StmXtfzrWM3EnnfWV	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats welcome and call for approval of the Government's proposal and the report Cooperation on healthcare, support and treatment against gambling abuse. Gambling is a public health problem affecting people's lives, health and relationships, and it can have lifelong economic consequences. According to the Swedish Public Health Agency, a public health problem is a problem when at least 1% of the population is affected and when it has serious consequences for health, the economy and social life. Gambling problems meet all these criteria, as about 2 percent of the adult population have indicated that they have an increased risk of gambling problems. Of these, men dominate. On this basis, we believe that the proposal is a step in the right direction. Through the bill, the abuse of gambling should be equated with other forms of abuse, which we think is good. An addiction is a disease that requires treatment to get rid of, whether it's gambling, alcohol, drugs or something else. If it can be defined as an addiction, it is what it is, nothing else and nothing less dangerous. Madam President, I would like Responsible regulation of the gambling market is an important component of preventive work. The availability of games is one of the factors that is most closely related to gambling problems, especially for young people. The municipalities have so far had no clear responsibility for combating gambling abuse. As a result, treatment and treatment of people with substance abuse have varied according to their place of residence. Some municipalities have offered treatment and others have not. Instead, patients have been passed on to the county council, which has, in the worst case, returned the person concerned to the municipality. In cases such as these, such a thing can lead, in the worst case, to individuals unfortunately ending up between the chairs. Knowledge is needed for people to really get the right treatment. The municipalities have a challenge here to ensure that there is the possibility of offering the right treatment from the start, and not putting the problems and costs ahead of them so that they increase. The proposed amendments to the Social Services Act and the Health Care Act also strengthen the children's perspective. The Social Welfare Board is given increased responsibility for actively combating problems with gambling among children and young people. The proposal also clarifies the responsibility of health care to take into account a child's need for information, advice and support if the child's parent or any other adult with whom the child lives has gambling problems. Also non-profit activities can play an important role in preventing gambling problems and providing support to those who have or have had gambling problems. It can also provide support for relatives. In summary, changes increase the responsibility of municipalities and county councils to work preventively and to collaborate around addiction and addiction care. Strengthening cooperation between actors at national, regional and local level can lead to effective and more coordinated and knowledge-based prevention. This increases the chances of counteracting gambling problems in society.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-716	Madam President, I would like It feels good to be able to endorse this bill from the Red-Green Government. On 1 January, some changes will come into force that are important for two groups in society: people with problems with gambling addiction, and children, partners and other relatives of them. The fact that people can have problems with gambling addiction is not a new phenomenon. It's been around for decades. During my previous period as a social worker, I myself have met many clients with this kind of problem. Life can be completely destroyed for people with these problems. What has happened in recent years is the explosion of gambling on the internet, which has greatly exacerbated the difficulties for people at risk of becoming addicted. What distinguishes this from the abuse of alcohol, for example, are the major economic consequences of gambling on such things as online casinos and football matches. The economy of a family often collapses when a parent gambles hundreds of thousands of dollars. Not least for the children of such families, this new legislation is important. The Government's proposal contains four important elements. Firstly, the Government proposes that the Social Services Act and the Health Care Act be amended regarding gambling abuse. Health care already has a responsibility to provide children with information, advice and support about the child's parent or any other adult with whom the child lives is an addict. Until now, it has not covered gambling abuse. Now we add that so that the child's right to information, advice and support also applies to gambling abuse. Secondly, the social welfare boards' responsibility for preventing and counteracting abuse is extended to gambling. Until now, only substance abuse, such as alcohol and drugs, has been a responsibility of the social welfare committees. Here, too, I would like to stress the importance of the provision for children living with adults who have problems with gambling addiction. Thirdly, the social welfare committees also have a responsibility to combat the abuse of gambling among children and young people and to offer treatment. Around the country, good work is often done to combat the abuse of alcohol or drugs by children and young people. But the massive increase in gambling among some children and young people has made it very clear that this responsibility must also apply to gambling. Anyone who looks at international football, for example, knows how intense advertising for betting sites is. Often advertising breaks are filled entirely with advertising for such gambling companies. And it is the young people who are most effective for that advertising. The fourth point of this legislative proposal I would like to mention concerns cooperation between municipalities and county councils. Today, municipalities and county councils already have an obligation to cooperate on people who abuse substances such as alcohol and drugs. From the turn of the year, this cooperation must also cover people who abuse gambling. Let me also say, for the sake of clarity, that all gambling about money should not, of course, be seen as abuse. For example, the vast majority who play football games or place chips on a roulette table do not abuse, just as most people who drink wine or beer sometimes do. But just as in the use of substances, some use leads to abuse, with serious social consequences. Madam President, I would like With these four proposals from the Red-Green Government, we are taking an important step to help people who have problems with gambling abuse. This also means that we extend our hand to children and other relatives of those people. I support the Government's proposal and the committee's proposal in the report.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-726	Madam President, I would like I would like to raise the issue of addiction diseases and where the main responsibility lies. Here we have discussed cooperation agreements. Sure, it's good to work together. But who is best sent to treat diseases based on science and proven experience? Anders W raised this in a previous speech, but I would like to put the same question to Stefan Nilsson. How do you in the Green Party see where the best knowledge to help people is found? You told me yourself that you're a social worker. From this point of view, I would like to hear your reasoning on this matter.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-727	Madam President, I would like There is no obvious answer to that question. Both social services and health care are very important. If I may reason a little, I can say that it could possibly be a positive thing to have a slightly clearer responsibility for health care, as one would attract more people with problems in that way. But this is a very complex issue. I think you have some points in your reservation, but the bourgeois government also chose not to table a bill on this, and the government does not now. But it is interesting to have a continued discussion of these rather difficult details.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-728	Madam President, I would like Of course, there were negative referrals, such as SKL, but it was not particularly extensive. Since then, however, we have gained much more experience of both gambling addiction and other addiction diseases. We differ from other countries in terms of mortality among drug addicts. We're worse than others. Then it is about the knowledge of the health care providers but also about the trust of those who are dependent. It is no coincidence that in syringe exchange programs managed by the health care system, so many more previously unknown drug addicts are discovered. People with addiction have confidence in health care that they do not feel in social services, since social services do not have the same tools for treating addiction diseases. That is why I think it is important that we bring this discussion up. I understand from the answer I received just now that you are no stranger to changing feet, but I would like to have it made a little clearer.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-729	Madam President, I would like The Green Party is part of the government. We support this proposal and nothing else. But we find it interesting to have an intellectual discussion about this. It is not an ideological question exactly how to place responsibility, but, of course, it should be based primarily on research. It is important to be able to reach and help as many as possible. I look forward to further discussion on this in the coming years.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-730	Madam President, I would like I'm gonna start with this addiction thing. Now it's gambling addiction we're going to talk about. The whole bill is about gambling addiction. The question of dependence and headship may come back in a different form, I think. I do think it is a very interesting question. If I were addicted, let's say drugs, I'd rather go to the county council than to social services. But now I want to focus on gambling addiction. I think we should get back to this issue. You got all of Gerhard Larsson's fantastic investigation on your knee. I think that was a question you were investigating. I guess we'll have to dig it out together and make something out of it. This is a very important question, but not under this heading, I think. I'm going back to gambling addiction, which is a class issue. The tables in the bill are interesting. If you sit and watch a weekend or go in and watch when it is football and so on, you see that there is a huge market that is about gambling and advertising. But it also comes back in another bill, and I think we will be fairly in agreement there. This is a big question. There are 135 000 people who are problem players and very many men. That's 100,000 men. It can also be seen that it is increasing among middle-aged women. Fortunately, however, it is decreasing among young boys 16 - 17 years of age. At least that's a little positive. That's good. It is poker, casino games and slot machines that seem to be very popular, that people get stuck in and for which there is a lot of advertising. When you look at gambling problems and cave down a little, you can see that it is most frequent in those groups that do not have safe and stable living conditions. So it's a class question. There is a connection between risky gambling habits, low socio-economic status and parents' gambling habits, like so much else when it comes to addiction. It is therefore more risky game on Järvafältet than on Östermalm, where you also play. But then you play with other people's money in a different way. We shall leave that to the economic debate some other time. People with academic education also have less gambling problems than people with primary education alone. It's a classic when it comes to class and addiction. It is very good that we should now legislate on prevention. The amendments mean that the Social Services Board, which is responsible for preventing and counteracting the abuse of alcohol and other substances, will now also work on this issue. It's great that something happens in that area, we think. It is also given an extended responsibility to work preventively with children and young people. It can be understood that it is necessary. If we're going to talk about headship, maybe it's not the county council that's going to work preventively with children and young people in their 13s, but then it's just social services. It's not all black or white. The requirement for an agreement between municipalities and county councils on people who abuse substances should also apply to people who abuse gambling. It's great and it's a big step forward. It has worked for quite some time on the issue in different authorities, and now it is in port at least. That's good. It is also proposed to extend the responsibility of health care to pay particular attention to children's needs for information, advice and support if the child's parent or someone else with whom they live is a gambling addict. This also applies to other addictions. Children who live with addiction regardless of whether it is gambling, alcohol or drugs and mental ill health suffer enormously badly. We are certainly not there, but it is, unfortunately, very freely chosen work. I hope we can change that. Abuse of gambling is a public health problem and involves a great many men and women and their relatives. We in the Left therefore welcome and support the proposals in the proposal. That's great. Thank you, the government! I support it and reject all motions.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-740	Madam President, I would like Now we are going to debate the Social Affairs Committee's report on the Government's letter 2016/ 17:110 Riksrevisionen's report on state governance through targeted state grants in health care. In its letter, the Government responded to the Swedish National Audit Office's report on how government governance through targeted state grants works. The Swedish National Audit Office has found that there is a lack of both elaborate processes and policies for decisions on targeted state grants to health care and that they come to more ad hoc. There is also no explicit idea of these state contributions as a uniform instrument, according to the National Audit Office, and most of the contributions cannot be regarded as time-limited even though the 1993 state grant reform requires it. This in turn creates uncertainty and makes planning difficult for county councils. The impact of targeted state grants on the activities of county councils differs in many ways, according to the Swedish National Audit Office. This depends on the different conditions of the county councils to receive the targeted state grants, the governance processes they have out there and the choices they make to use the specific targeted grants. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, this makes the results difficult to predict, and the steering is also very unclear. At the same time, the Swedish National Audit Office believes that the relatively small resource supplements that the grants entail can have very large and sometimes even negative consequences for the activities in the county councils. They can make it difficult or destroy the county councils' own priorities and even counter-productive. At the same time, grants can also create opportunities and lead to new thinking in the business. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has also studied how the government followed up the results of the targeted state grants and concluded that it is difficult. Often follow-up focuses on activities and processes instead of results and impacts of contributions. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, this is due to the fact that the assignments for follow-up are too general and do not include any requirements for long-term sustainability and that the design of the grants often makes impact studies more difficult. The Swedish National Audit Office recommends the Government to review the targeted state grants that run on today and to consider alternative methods of financing. It also wants the government to consider a longer deadline for new grants and to design them so that they can be monitored and evaluated effectively. Madam President, I would like So to the letter. The Government welcomes the screening exercise and stresses the importance of targeted state grants for the government's governance of health care. Furthermore, the Government describes its ambitions to reduce detailed management and that a clear change has taken place since 2015, which is the year in which the study has been carried out and based on the written report. The Government is working to achieve more strategic governance that leads to greater clarity and where it works more strategically with monitoring and evaluation. These ambitions are reflected in the work it began with developing the agreements with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils. In addition, in 2016, the government has moved away from performance requirements in most contributions while remaining in others where they are found reasonable and clear. In addition, the Government's letter highlights the dialogue in the work on targeted state grants as effective in developing healthcare. It has the potential to create the consensus that is needed between the parties precisely to develop healthcare. This is how they have worked with the agreements since 2016. The Government points out that the agreements are followed up by the authorities and that those made so far are applicable for further work. At the same time, however, it says that it intends to continue to develop follow-ups to make them more results-based. Madam President, I would like The Government affirms the fact that the targeted state grants can be used according to the purpose, the beneficiaries and the objectives to be achieved. It therefore considers these contributions to be practical instruments, including those that have existed for a long time and are allocated to specific groups. It provides examples of such agreements as a quality-assured and effective sick leave and rehabilitation process as well as competence centres for dental care. The Government also emphasises that the targeted state grants should be seen together with the health care objectives that the Riksdag has decided on, i.e. a needs-adapted healthcare of good quality on equal terms for all. It has also developed indicators to follow as it reports to us here in Parliament. According to the Government, targeted state grants, which can take different forms, should thus be seen as effective instruments for different governments' health care policies. The agreements with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council with which this government works are usually made every year. The ambition is that they will eventually turn into general state grants. There must continue to be opportunities to change the direction of grants, according to the government, and no general rule on the time limit for targeted state grants should be introduced. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats believe that the government has responded well to the Swedish National Audit Office's letter. We support the Government's ambitions and efforts to develop targeted state grants through agreements and dialogue. At the same time, Madam President, we regret that the Committee's bourgeois parties have again taken the help of the Swedish Democrats to push through further unnecessary announcements. This time, you choose to announce the recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office without any deeper reasoning. At the same time, an uncritical argumentation is being built in defence of one's cue billions without any reasoning or reflection on the government's description of ongoing work. We see, Madam President, a systematic way in which the alliance parties exploit the support of the Swedish Democrats to try to make it really difficult for the government, as has been said. We find such a procedure unserious. It does not benefit Sweden and not health care, and it certainly does not benefit patients, who have the right to equal care of good quality. Of course, I agree with all our reservations, but I would ask for the winning approval of reservation 1 only in time. At the same time, I call for the committee's proposal to be rejected in the report.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-759	Madam President, audiences, viewers and listeners! The red-green feminist government, as you now all know, is working long-term and determinedly to develop and strengthen welfare policy. Madam President, I would like The committee allowed me two weeks ago to participate in the OECD thematic session for this year. The meeting was about the conflicts that arise with the securing of welfare in an increasingly globalised world. Secretary-General Angel Gurría stressed the importance of us politicians making a real effort and being able to distribute welfare so as to close the gaps between people, both nationally and internationally. The message was clear: Society where greed takes over and gaps are increasing will not be able to contribute to meeting the major challenges of world abuse, climate change and the protection of biodiversity. The OECD pointed to Denmark as a country with the highest tax rates, but at the same time, despite the high tax rates, around 25% of citizens believe that further tax increases would not be wrong. The Danes simply feel that they get a lot for what they set aside in the common register. They also believe that society gives everyone an equal opportunity. The Danes are also the happiest people in the world. Madam President, I would like Why this introduction? Well, I think the committee should get something back when it gives Members the opportunity to travel out. I see this as a small report. I am thinking of the reports we are debating in this House – not just those from our committee but all the reports that are somehow linked to the distribution of the tax resources that we are able to allocate. When we discuss these things and how we are going to do this, we should reflect on the message from the OECD and all the speakers there. The way in which the state distributes financial resources in the form of, for example, targeted state contributions to health care, which this is about, is an example of the means available to it to try, as far as possible, to counter the forces of greed and the market as they slowly tear our societies apart. Therefore, of course, it is also important that we monitor how state subsidies affect and work where it is intended that they should make a difference. To this end, we have the help of the Swedish National Audit Office, which conducts audits of the state's activities. The report is therefore the examination by the committee of a letter put together by the government in response to the audit report on the state's governance of targeted state subsidies in the health sector. The Riksdag cannot change the government's letter, but with the help of the committee, the Riksdag can give its views on how the Government responds to the Swedish National Audit Office and what they have come up with. As you have heard the previous speaker mention, the majority of the committee is therefore proposing in this case that the Parliament should give the government five different announcements. In ordinary Swedish it can be said that the Riksdag leaves five assignments to the government. The opposition, no matter who governs and who is in opposition, often wants to portray announcements as some form of criticism of the government. Sometimes it can be just about criticism, so it may be relevant. But often it is mostly about the opposition itself having a need to emphasise that you are doing something. I myself know, after two terms of office in opposition, how frustrating it may be to be unable to really influence the decisions taken in this House more than in a few exceptional cases. Then maybe this will be a valve for the discomfort of having to sit here and not be able to do anything. In this particular case, one can interpret the five announcements that the opposition formulates as primarily a criticism of how the Alliance itself handled the targeted contributions during its eight years in power. I naturally welcome this self-criticism. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed a total of 24 different targeted state grants that were effective, i.e. paid out, in 2015. Most of these were decided during the eight years of the Alliance. But some contributions have been in existence for a long time – the oldest for 30 years. Some, on the other hand, are brand new and have been decided upon by the current government when it entered into force. The reason why I mention that so many of the evaluated targeted state contributions were decided during the alliance period is that I believe that the measures proposed by a united opposition are primarily aimed at forms of grants that the alliance parties themselves have applied to a large extent in the past. And I suppose it's a good thing we're all taking on criticism. Madam President, I would like That the proposed announcements then do not rely very much on how the Swedish National Audit Office is reasoning is for me another question. Maybe it's not that important here. But I think it is self-evident and important that we politicians, whether in opposition or in the majority, take on board the views of the audit and try to take them into account as far as possible in the further work. Like the government, the Green Party agrees that many of the views are important and interesting. However, we can also note that a lot of the improvements to the systems proposed by the Swedish National Audit Office, for example regarding the possibility of follow-up, have already begun and started working on. We believe that it is important for a government, whether it has been in office for a long time or not, to be able to implement its policies and to influence and govern. Although the rules may need to be adjusted, the regulatory framework must not become so rigid that new policy ideas cannot be reflected in political work. It would be a bit strange, I think – as if democracy were to tie itself up a little from time to time. The current S-MP government has also chosen to make larger and more general contributions than the previous government – so I feel – to the local government sector. We believe that the freedom in how to dispose of the money in each area in different parts of the country may also be better managed in the country by regions, municipalities and county councils. Reduced detail control has been a track that the government has been trying to catch up on. With regard to targeted grants, we have tried to link them to clear agreements with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils. There we have agreed on follow-up methods and carried out a development work that is still ongoing. I can only say that I think that what is proposed in the announcements are processes that are already under way and where I think we have come quite a long way. Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all the reservations we have in the report, but for the time to come, I only ask for reservation 1.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-775	Madam President, I would like The former Alliance and the Swedish Democrats have somehow made it their own small art to break open doors; it's a bit special. But we're not gonna whine about it! I sometimes think of the state funds that we have targeted in this connection to maternity care and which we are now following up on to the point. It is about Sweden being very bad when it comes to birth injuries. If you want to get a process started, I think it is excellent to have government grants, which are directed to county councils and which are also followed up to the point, which is done. It is a targeted contribution, absolutely, but it is also a necessity to get this process started in Sweden in general. We can follow up on what happens in every county council-- that's good, right? What if it means something? Yes, we can read that in the evaluations we receive. This is a type of targeted state contribution. The purpose of the Swedish National Audit Office, which does very good audits, is to investigate whether the targeted state grants to the health care system function as intended or whether they are just fluttering around in life. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, the intention of the Riksdag with the grants is to use the grants temporarily and exceptionally and to monitor the results, as I have said before. The questions raised by the Swedish National Audit Office in the audit are as follows: How are the contributions to health care designed? What are the implications for the design of the grants? How do the grants affect the county councils' activities? Has the government followed up the results of the grants? It's great to follow up on this. Examples of areas where there have been certain requirements for state subsidies that have been followed up are, as I said, women's health, maternity care, mental illness and cancer. With regard to a possible time limit, the Left, like the government, considers that the targeted state contributions play an important role in the implementation of the government's policy negotiated with the Left Party. Issues such as equality and gender equality have been highlighted here. It has been necessary because we have a very unequal care in Sweden, both geographically and individually. We believe that there should continue to be an opportunity to change the direction of targeted state subsidies. Against this background, we are not prepared to support what the majority in committee thinks about this very thing. So to the question of whether the government has followed up on the results of the subsidies, or do they not care about it? In our opinion, there is no reason for the Riksdag to make an announcement that the grants should be designed to facilitate monitoring and impact evaluation, for which the motionaries argue. All agreements of different kinds are followed up by different authorities: the National Board of Health and Public Health and the SKL, which is certainly not an authority. It is important to see what the funds are used for around Sweden. How do the grants affect the county councils' activities? The objective of health policy is to provide the population with a well-suited and efficient health care of good quality. There are indicators on how to assess this. The objectives are closely followed, and the results play an important role in the design and use of targeted state grants. The annual letter on the development of the municipal sector submitted by the Government to the Riksdag gives an overview of the development of the finances of the municipalities and county councils in recent years, as well as the development of, for example, state grants, so that may not be necessary either. How are healthcare contributions designed? The Government writes in its reply that the targeted state grants in healthcare should be seen together with the other targets for healthcare. It's not like there's some sort of consensus. The Left agrees with these assessments. The aim of the healthcare system is to offer the population a needs-oriented and efficient healthcare. The monitoring of eel and results plays an important role in the design and use of targeted state grants. When we look at the proposals of the majority of committees, we feel that it somehow becomes on-the-side activity. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be rejected and for reservation 1 to be accepted – only for time to come.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-789	Madam President, I would like One might think that a report based on a national audit report and the letter from the government is a bit rigid. That's not why I look so stiff, it's because I have a little neck block. But I hope that it will be possible to bring forward the Christian Democrats' message anyway. For citizens, it is often difficult to determine at which political level different decisions are taken. This is important for citizens – you need to know where to take responsibility for the decisions taken. As far as the health sector is concerned, this may be particularly difficult precisely because we in Parliament take decisions on legislation and a great deal of funding. However, decisions on execution, commissioning and priorities in the individual county councils and regions are taken at that level. That is where the level of taxation lies most of the activities relating to health care. Then everyone knows, especially when they are in government, how important it is to be able to influence at national level what many citizens throughout our country perceive as important in the area of health. That is why we use some targeted state subsidies from time to time, in addition to the legislation we regulate. There is therefore quite a lot of consensus, although perhaps it has not really sounded so far in the debate, that we should properly examine how governments use the targeted state subsidies from time to time to govern at national level. How does this affect the ability to fulfil the mandate of county and regional politicians in the country? The Swedish National Audit Office has made a number of recommendations. There was praise from some of the previous speakers that we in the Alliance are doing some self - examination: Have we used this in a good way? I think it might be useful for the present government parties to reflect on their own actions in the same way. It is important that we actually dare to examine ourselves and look at whether the way in which we have used targeted state subsidies has always been appropriate. A previous debater mentioned that there are targeted state subsidies that have been in operation for 30 years. If the responsibility and the level of taxation for the financing of health care are to be at the county councils and we then have targeted state grants that run for 30 years, it is clear that the question is whether the responsibility lies with the state – the parliament – or at the level that is closer to the citizens, where taxation takes place. We have therefore taken on board several parts of the audit carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office. In its letter, the Government also welcomes several of these, but it is not prepared to act and take the consequences by accepting some of the proposals that exist. On behalf of the Alliance, we have said that there is reason to set a longer deadline when deciding on targeted state subsidies – to say that this applies for a certain period of time. We have also said that it is important that the process already ensures that it is possible to follow up, not only during the limited period of many state subsidies, but also to follow up on the long-term effects. Because it's clear that we sometimes do things that should have a short-term effect, but when it comes to Swedish healthcare, it's all about having long-term effects, for broad groups in our society. Then it is important that the follow-up has the opportunity to look at whether it turned out as we intended. We want a plan for a more systematic process for the development of targeted state subsidies. There are many reasons why we in the Alliance have tabled a motion with several proposals which have also won the majority in committee. This is not about placard politics. It is not about setting up a government, it is about the fact that we actually need to rig the conditions for citizens to demand responsibility. It becomes problematic when the government parties in their reservations say that they generally want to reduce the level of detail and that there are already conditions for this. If we look at the state grants that have been decided on during just this term of office, we can see that you go into details about exactly how the county councils should design something. There is great consensus, for example, that all children in need of glasses should receive it. However, in this House we have discussed the design of the targeted state grant for glasses, despite the fact that all county councils already had eyeglass contributions. However, in order to score a political score from the state grant, legislation was passed and money was sent. This resulted in a detailed management that means that many county councils now have a higher cost without more children having had glasses. The political difference was not about whether children should get glasses or not, but about how it should be controlled and where the responsibility should lie. And it will be incredibly difficult for citizens to demand responsibility. With this, Madam President, I support the majority's proposal.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-805	Madam President, I would like Emma Henriksson began by pointing out that the subject of this debate is not the most invigorating one. However, the governance of health care is an important issue, and it is important that we discuss it. I believe that we fundamentally agree that the state also needs to have instruments to ensure that healthcare is tailored to needs, equal and of high quality. Emma Henriksson also says that the government could have been more concerned with self-criticism. One might think so, and it is a good thing that the alliance parties do so. But we should remember that the report is about a year, namely 2015. Many of the contributions that have been looked at have been made under the previous government, and much has also happened since 2015 when it comes to changing the governance process in order to make it clearer and more follow-up. A small part of my criticism of the majority in the committee is about not having reflected on the governance process that the current government has initiated, with annual agreements with Sweden's municipalities and county councils and a lot of dialogue in order to have a common understanding. Most of us think that most of the decisions should be taken in the operations and by the county councils and the politicians in the county councils. My question to Emma Henriksson is: Does Emma Henriksson not think that much of what the government is doing is going in the right direction, so that we can have a better governance process when it comes to targeted state grants?
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-809	Madam President, I would like No, unfortunately, AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson, in many areas it is the opposite. The way in which the current government uses government subsidies often makes it difficult to follow up and demand responsibility. If we are now anxious to use our common resources regardless of the level of taxation at which the resources are taken in, I do not understand why we do not endorse our proposals, which are about getting clear processes to produce targeted state subsidies. Why does it not agree that we should agree that when drawing up targeted state subsidies, it is possible to measure the effects of these contributions in the long term? It is both about what is happening immediately and above all – which I think we are all concerned about – about their long-term effects. Why is it not prepared to look at the contributions that are decided upon and see if they have any effect at all? Some state subsidies have been removed, where it has been possible to quantify the effect they have had. Now we see that the care queues are increasing. There are targeted grants to municipalities and county councils. There are grants that go generally. The debate uses big words about how much the money should be enough, but when we are out meeting the county councils they say: It was good that we got money, but we have not used it for what you said, but we have other holes to put it in. Then it is completely impossible to follow up on the effect that it was, and it is, above all, completely impossible for citizens to know where to demand responsibility.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-812	Madam President, I would like I think everyone agrees that there is a constant need to review the governance process, to take decisions that can be followed up and to take decisions that focus on results and effects rather than on processes and efforts. If you don't, you'll end up in the wrong place. Emma Henriksson attaches great importance to having a designed control process. As we see it, it is a question of using targeted state subsidies for different purposes. It must be every government's choice to do this in order to achieve what is the objective of health care, i.e. a need-driven health care of the highest quality for everyone. The objectives, objectives and target groups can be very different. In that case, state subsidies must also be given different forms. Then it's a lot about how it works out in the county councils. In my speech, I myself thought that this could interfere. That's it. Above all, it can interfere with county councils' own priorities. It also showed the follow-up that it can do so many times. I'm sure it did during the time of the old government, too. A golden example of detailed control where one chose completely wrong is the rehabilitation process, which received a lot of criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office and was eventually abolished. A balance between detailed governance, which is evil, and government governance that achieves its aims – to work for an equal health care of good quality for all – I still think that we need to arrive at.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-817	Madam President, I would like I didn't hear any question in the last line, but I still took note of some of the things you, Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson, said. You mentioned, among other things, that it should be up to the government to have different purposes with their state subsidies. There is nothing in the proposals that we are putting forward to prevent this. But it is clear that the purpose of the government with some state subsidies has been to get the Left Party on the budget, nothing else. The Left Party has made demands for money for a specific bet. That's what's been the goal. The money has been given, and in this respect it is possible to follow up. However, measuring the effect for patients, for those who need eyeglass benefits or for those who have received a lower fee in healthcare – i.e. measuring the effect in terms of health outcomes – is not possible as long as it has not been possible from the beginning, throughout the whole process. We have absolutely no objection to the fact that there will be clarity and the possibility of follow-up. This is exactly what our motions in our motion are aimed at, and if everything goes as expected, the Riksdag will also decide on it. This makes it possible to monitor state subsidies, and it enables citizens to demand responsibility. It becomes clear where the responsibility lies. It'll be measurable. It is the same strategy that we in the Alliance had for the entire healthcare area during our years in the government. It shall be possible to measure and critically review. It gets a little tougher for us politicians, but it is important if you actually want to see the development of care for all citizens.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-819	Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on government governance through targeted state grants in health care. The reports of the Swedish National Audit Office are not always very exciting. But in this case, there will actually be five announcements if they are put through later. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. Municipal self-government is a very strong starting point within the Swedish social system. The Health Act is a framework law that gives county councils large spaces to design care according to their local needs. At the same time, there is a portal clause that speaks of equivalence. There will, of course, be tensions between these principles and a government's willingness to govern its contributions and policies. The committee welcomes the Swedish National Audit Office's analysis of the targeted contributions – we do so regardless of the colour of the government. It is about design, consequences, how it affects the county councils' activities and what follow-up they have. In its report, the Swedish National Audit Office points out that the government is failing in many ways. There's no policy. The contributions are different. There is twitchiness and therefore inefficiencies in the activities. Staff are not always convinced that the grants have the intended effect. There are even examples of the negative impact of the subsidies, which is obviously the opposite of what was intended. It appears that the government has entered into several agreements with SKL, Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils. They are thus in breach of the principles of general state aid. As a result, SKL has come to have a great influence on state subsidies, thus rounding up the authority that the government has for this purpose, namely the National Board of Health and Welfare. This causes the roles to be confused between an interest organisation, SKL, and the National Board of Health and Welfare, which is a government authority and which unfortunately, in this case, also has an evasive role. The recommendation from the Swedish National Audit Office is that the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare should be used for general grants and the policy that the government wants to conduct. Madam President, I would like It is unfortunate that the state in its eagerness to direct where the money should go skips its own authorities and designs new structures for its policies. This model also makes it more difficult to follow up and evaluate, as the Swedish National Audit Office points out. We therefore agree with the call for an impact assessment and follow-up in an announcement to the government. The Swedish National Audit Office also writes that the state should develop a national overall plan for how systematic processes should be carried out. We believe that the Swedish National Audit Office is right. It is important that citizens and patients receive the same care wherever they live. And it is important that citizens and patients can find out how this is done in a common regulatory framework. Here, too, there will be an announcement to the government. It goes without saying that there is a longer deadline for new targeted state subsidies. Here we support the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendation. It is important to review existing targeted state subsidies that do not have a deadline today. We also support this announcement to the government. It is important that performance-based contributions can be used in the event of deficiencies. The Alliance government did this when it wanted to remove the long queues of care. It is a contribution that this government has unfortunately taken away. We now see that the queues are growing again. We say that targeted grants should be limited in time and regularly evaluated. It is important to be able to measure effects even in the longer term. Madam President, I would like We see that there are many ongoing problems in healthcare. Queues are growing. The nurse's deficiency is excruciating. Health care is not equal throughout the country. There are other problems as well. The government has to manage health care in different ways and thus manage the benefits. This requires the application of national guidelines and principles – for equal care for all. Of course, tax money must be spent in the best possible way. The Swedish National Audit Office's criticism is justified. Let's get behind it.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-830	Madam President, I would like First of all, I think you got into another discussion about the next national audit report, which points to dividing lines between SKL and the National Board of Health and Welfare. Then I have to ask you a question. You were in SKL and owned SKL for eight years. I was also in SKL, in social preparation. There was a lot of crazy going through SKL, for example when it came to violence against women, violence in close relationships and different types of addiction issues. There was a lot that the National Board of Health and Welfare did not seem to be involved in. What were you thinking, and have you reconsidered? That's a question. As far as the targeted contributions are concerned, I believe that very good processes can be started. We believe that we have received this when it comes to, for example, maternity care. We think that was an important question that we got out. It is clear that one must do something if Sweden is almost the highest ranked when it comes to birth injuries in the OECD. We see that it has fallen well out. Then there is a need for resources in health care. Then you also have to load resources. Then there are staff issues, which you lift. This does not really have to do with this review. To get health care started, you need to charge the staff – but that has nothing to do with this. I think that the government, together with the Left Party, is doing that right now. My main question concerns the layering between SKL and the National Board of Health and Welfare. I can tell you that the National Board of Health and Welfare is into every thing we do now, for example when it comes to maternity care. Where do you get this?
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-835	Madam President, I would like Now it is not we in the Moderates or in the Alliance who have come up with this criticism. There's actually a report from the National Audit Office. They are the ones who point out that so much should not go through SKL. Regardless of which government we have, SKL is not an authority and cannot be evaluated in the same way as a state authority. That is the criticism we are raising, and that is why we have five announcements in today's report. I can understand why it is difficult for the current leadership of the committee. But we must of course take note of the criticism that we think is reasonable in terms of how to follow up, how to design and what consequences it has within the county council in this case. What is said about the staff's views is what is stated in the report from the Swedish National Audit Office. It goes without saying that the National Board of Health and Welfare should play a prominent role. The Swedish National Audit Office also raises this issue. For various reasons, the National Board of Health and Welfare has backed up and gained a more evasive role. It's not good when it comes to a government authority. I've taken this directly from the report, so it's not weird. It is unfortunate that the state in its eagerness and willingness to control care and want to see what county councils do, or to get political points, skips its authorities and tries to find a new system. That is precisely what is being criticised. That is why we are here with this criticism. I think it is justified, and I think that each government should consider how to design its contributions.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-839	Madam President, I would like But, Katarina, let me ask you something. It's good to be ahead of your time, but you're in part on the next report, which is about SKL and the National Board of Health and Welfare. You were in SKL for eight years. You've also been in government for eight years. You had a great opportunity to give the National Board of Health and Welfare a little bigger muscles, a little better assignments and so on. You did not, but it was, for example, SKL that was grinding on when it came to violence against women. The National Board of Health and Welfare was not involved in this way. I think it is extremely important to follow the money within the state, what is happening within the state and the targeted contributions. We can take, for example, the HIV grant that was 30 years old. It was followed up in itself, but it has been a very long-term grant that the county council unfortunately relied on you to get every year and therefore did not build up your own body around HIV and STI issues. So, of course, it could be wrong. I think it's great that you follow up on the money and see what you get started with for processes. But when you make this type of targeted contribution you also want to start a good process in Sweden, which is now being followed up. In the reports we receive about maternity care and what happens out in the county councils, both the National Board of Health and Welfare and SKL are involved. SKL is, just about Katarina Brännström says, no authority. It is the National Board of Health and Welfare that is the authority. It is the National Board of Health and Welfare that will give the guidelines, which we will also print out. It may come in another report why guidelines for health care and certain issues do not end up where they should but lie in some locked drawer at the National Board of Health and Welfare.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-844	Madam President, I would like I have two pages here with overall conclusions from the report from the Swedish National Audit Office. It says that there is a large difference in reception, that despite the small amounts involved, the grants have a significant impact, that the grants sometimes have unintended and sometimes negative consequences and that the targeted state grants do not function as intended. That is exactly what we are basing ourselves on. Then, of course, as Karin Rågsjö does, you can take up eight years with the Alliance, but then you can also say that twelve years before that it was another government. There is much that should have been done a long time ago. Now we are here today with a report from the Swedish National Audit Office that raises the shortcomings that exist, and then we should do something about them now? The processes are already ongoing and are good, says Karin Rågsjö. But if it had been so far ahead, the criticism wouldn't have come, would it? Times change. The demands are changing. Deficiencies have been raised by the Swedish National Audit Office, which we actually trust. Then we think you should conform to it. We have done so, and we hope that it will go through later today.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-848	Madam President, I would like We are here today to debate the Swedish National Audit Office's report on government governance through targeted state grants in health care. As many before me have pointed out, this may not sound too interesting, but even a little dry and bureaucratic. But the Swedish National Audit Office is an extremely important authority that impartially examines us politicians, regardless of who has power in Rosenbad. Therefore, the Swedish National Audit Office has a very important role to play, and one should listen to it when it comes to criticism, as it has done in this case. This report is important for a number of reasons. First of all, it is about how we handle tax money. Then it is particularly important to follow up how they are used and, where possible, to evaluate whether they are actually used properly. However, it is not just about how to use tax funds in the most efficient way possible. It is at least as much a matter of following up and making sure that you have achieved what you intended to achieve. As I see it, this is a way to further refine the accuracy of targeted state subsidies so that they actually contribute to achieving what is intended by them. We share the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendation that it is important that the targeted state grants are designed so that they are easier to follow up and evaluate. In other activities, large sums would never be invested without continuous and ex-post evaluation of whether the investment has had the desired effect. I am well aware that it can sometimes be complicated to evaluate whether a specific targeted contribution has really produced the desired effect. Nevertheless, I believe that we should always seek to monitor and evaluate the efforts made, because it is about using and managing taxpayers' money in the best and most effective way. To evaluate and follow up in accordance with the recommendations made by the Swedish National Audit Office in its report is therefore absolutely necessary. Madam President, I would like We also believe that a more systematic process is needed when deciding to introduce new targeted state subsidies. A national overall plan for this should be developed to work systematically and methodically on the introduction of new targeted state grants. It should be remembered that well-designed targeted contributions can be a good policy instrument that has a real impact for the benefit of our citizens. In addition, they can provide support to county councils and municipalities to address specific problems or to focus on a particular area which should be given priority over a certain period. It is therefore a little unfortunate that the government does not take the recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office more seriously, especially at a time when health care is on its knees and there is a lack of resources in many operations. I believe that one should listen and humbly try to take on board the criticism that exists. Personally, I would see this as tips to further improve and streamline these contributions and the efforts that are being made, all to ensure that the policy objectives behind it are achieved. The Swedish National Audit Office makes many good recommendations, and I believe that we cannot afford not to listen to their views and recommendations, which we consider to be good. It is about saving the tax money of our voters and citizens and ensuring that we get as much benefit as possible for each individual tax chandelier and, above all, that the investments that we decide on here in Parliament really have the effect that we intended for the investments to have. It is ultimately a matter of getting the best possible welfare for all patients in the care. Having said that, we are in favour of all five motions set out in the accompanying motion submitted by the Alliance. It is about us always having the best interests of patients and our citizens in mind. I support the committee's proposal.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-860	Madam President, I would like Those who listen to this debate can surely ask themselves how there can be so much energy in a discussion of the Swedish National Audit Office's report. But this is, of course, about such an important issue as how we should manage the Swedish health care system. It is the case in Sweden that county councils or regions are primarily responsible for health care. In this situation, the question is constantly raised as to what responsibility we have in the parliament and government, and it appears in the debate here almost a picture that we in the parliament and government have no opportunity at all to govern the Swedish health care system. Nothing could be more wrong. We have two extremely effective instruments here in Parliament. Firstly, we have the legislation. It is we who decide which laws govern the Swedish health care system. Secondly, it is we here in the Swedish Parliament that ensure that there is financial resources for our municipalities and county councils to carry out their activities. Then it is of course extremely important which economic policy we decide on. During the time of the alliance government, we could see that economic policy led to the local government sector having SEK 200 billion more in revenue in 2014 than it had in 2006. This was partly due to a rather substantial increase in general state subsidies, but above all because we made sure that more people were in work. The second instrument we have is the general state subsidies. We do not distribute general state grants equally to everyone, but they are very much directed to the municipalities and county councils that have weak incomes and perhaps high costs. There we in Parliament have the opportunity to actually control Swedish health care. Then there is the little gutter, as I call it, which consists of special-destined state subsidies. In a situation where we have a health care that costs 300 billion, this is therefore about a few billions – a gutter in relation to the large costs. Why, then, do we have these contributions? I would like to say that there are two explanations. There is always a need for governments and, not least, health ministers to be able to act. There different governments have been equally good cabbage drinkers. In a situation where one points to a problem in the Swedish health care system, the government is not rarely pressured to say that here we intend to take a strong stance and introduce a special-destined contribution to remedy one problem than the other. The targeted state grants, not least in health care, have become an important part of the budget negotiations between the government and the Left Party. The budget negotiations seem to set aside a few hundred million, which, since the Left Party, will have to dispose freely of targeted state subsidies to one side than the other. It is important to take the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism seriously. This is a concern. In all parties, we do not need to go further than our municipal and county council representatives to understand the concerns raised by targeted state grants. It's exactly the same in all parties. Whether I meet a social democratic county council representative or environmental party representatives, they can describe the concerns of targeted state grants. These are three areas. The first area is that it is a problem for the small county councils and not least the small municipalities to apply for and manage the money. Even if we talk about health care, part of the money goes to the primary municipalities. Small municipalities do not have the possibility to apply for funds. They do not have a large enough administration to deal with these issues. Although 150 million sounds like a lot of money, for the individual small municipality there are not many coins left. There will be a mismanagement between large and small municipalities. The second area is the partial overturning of the priorities of state aid. Here in Parliament, we have for a long time decided on the priorities that should apply to health care. It is about the principle of human dignity, the principle of need and the principle of effectiveness. These principles have the health authorities, county councils, to comply with. They often have long-term planning for how to handle state subsidies. Then there is suddenly a targeted state contribution in the priority, which means that the county councils are basically forced to put aside their regular planning and suddenly start prioritising on the basis of what the almighty wise government or parliament has decided on. It's troubling. The third area is that many state subsidies are temporary. Temporary state grants can only be used for temporary investments. Here is now not least the investment in maternity care. It is an extremely worthwhile initiative, but it is a matter of temporary money. Time and again when members have met representatives, heads of operations, for women's clinics, most say that it is amazing to get money for childbirth, but they wonder what to do with the money. They cannot hire more midwives because, firstly, there are no more midwives to hire, and secondly, they can never hire permanent staff for temporary money. They cannot increase wages, as they would like to do, because it is not possible to increase wages for temporary money. For many it will be that they buy new machines, new ultrasonic devices and new monitoring equipment. Perhaps if it is possible, if they can get temporary staff, they can invest in further training. They are the concerns that make me think that the Swedish National Audit Office has made a good assessment. Given that different governments are equally good cabbage drinkers, I believe that the Riksdag can take seriously the comments made by the National Audit Office. The Parliament should be united in saying that there should be a tightening up. The Center Party is not saying that targeted state subsidies should be removed, but we are clearly saying that there should be a tightening up and a clear regulatory framework for what should apply to the dedicated contributions. I am pleased that there is a majority in the committee in favour of such a position, and I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-875	Mr President, I would like to It sounds like the Left Party is a demand machine. I will raise the question of the money for maternity care one more time. I was shocked; I had no idea that Sweden was so bad in the OECD when it came to birth injuries. Sweden is astoundingly poor. What are we gonna do about it? Are there methods that can be improved? We got the money loose. We hope that you will find permanent money to go out to the county councils for maternity care. They're really needed. I know that you in the Center Party were against the bet. You didn't put it in your own budget, unless I'm out of my league. It is one way of pointing out that it is an important issue, that it is about women, equality and opportunities to train staff, such as midwives. I've read the reports coming in. They are in favour of these state subsidies. One more thing that can be done to strengthen care, and we all want to do so, is to ensure that there are resources for care. Then you cannot threaten with censure and other small and good things for a cheap air tax of SEK 80 and so on. Then we'll be wrong in the speech about strengthening health care. When it comes to resources for health care in general, Anders W Jonsson knows that the government, together with the Left Party, produced 10 billion. Now there will also be a new EUR 2 billion dedicated to staff, such as better wages and better opportunities to cut down on reduced working hours. There is much that can be done with targeted efforts that will be really good. We're not gonna waste it.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-882	Mr President, I would like to I am not going to comment on the air tax because I think that question is a little out of the question. The example of special contributions to childbirth clearly shows the difficulty of the system of trying to control. I do not wonder that there are problems in Swedish maternity care, but Sweden has the world's lowest maternal mortality rate – and Sweden also has a low infant mortality rate. But then there was the question of what can be done about birth injuries and what methods should be used. It would be far better, in this situation, to make further efforts to ensure the quality of open comparisons. One method that is extremely effective is that the maternity clinic in Östersund can see that in Skellefteå a solution has been found. There's an incredibly sharp tool. The concern with temporary money for Swedish maternity clinics is the priority. The Riksdag thus says that birth injuries are more important than anything else. I'm not sure that every county council feels that it's the biggest medical challenge you're facing. Perhaps it is rather how to take care of the multi-disabled children and child and youth rehabilitation, or it is perhaps how to care for the aftercare of the cancer sufferers. When the government and parliament go in and in this way, all county councils should prioritise this particular medical group higher than anything else, the order of priorities is suddenly turned upside down. If there is a willingness to do something about birth injuries, there are far more effective ways to achieve the same results, namely targeted educational initiatives via the National Board of Health and Welfare and clear follow-ups with open comparisons and quality lists. Then it is possible to reach the goal – not with the help of temporary state grants for maternity care.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-887	Mr President, I would like to It would have been so great, Anders W Jonsson, if we had seen that there were amazing numbers in maternity care. Then we wouldn't have pinpointed that area. But you know those numbers, don't you? But there wasn't much work done in the last government that we're about to stop nagging about. This is an issue that we consider important. It's about equality. It is clear that one wonders how Sweden has ended up almost highest in the OECD when it comes to birth injuries. What are we gonna do about it? Hopefully education is now spreading and so on. But they must be controlled. Otherwise, this area would hopefully have looked better. SKL had had the opportunity, together with the National Board of Health and Welfare, to get the questions out in a better way over the years you sat in the government. There are many other issues that the government has raised in the budget together with the Left Party. It is about investment in cancer and the 10 billion that expire each year during the term of office to welfare. Healthcare will in all likelihood be a very important question of choice. Then there will be a lot about resources. It will be about welfare money. You might have to think about it. Anders thought that the airline tax was a bit boring to mention, but then one must prioritize. I think so. Then maybe you can't start arguing and think that air taxes should not have, the flight should not be touched, when the money should go to welfare. It's going to be a very strange priority. I think it's great with targeted efforts that you can get the hang of, which you can watch and follow. That is exactly what we do when reports are received from various targeted actions. It must be followed, it must be strategic and it must be defined. We are in complete agreement on that.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-892	Mr President, I would like to I think this line shift is quite interesting because it shows two completely different ways of looking at how we should manage Swedish health care. From the Center Party we see that Swedish health care is world-class in most areas. But there are a number of very difficult problems and major challenges. We do not believe that all wisdom is here in the Parliament House or for that matter in the Government Office or that we can control Swedish health care by making decisions here and saying that today we will certainly invest in maternity care, but tomorrow we may invest in diabetes care and the day after that in young people with neuropsychiatric diagnoses. It does not work, it has to use completely different economic instruments. We must ensure that county councils have the necessary financial resources. We do this through a good economic policy that allows more people to get into work, that companies can hire and so on. Maybe that's the most important thing we do. But then we have to give the county councils tools. The quality records are one of the most important, because there you can suddenly see that the care of young people with neuropsychiatric diagnoses works fantastically well in Blekinge while in Norrbotten it is a disaster. Then it won't be better if we sit here in Parliament and say that now we decide that on precisely that diagnosis and that treatment we should invest special-destined contributions. It will be better by providing the quality tools that enable the health officer to truly carry out his mission. It is very possible that it is precisely maternity care that would need much more resources. But the big problem there is the lack of midwives, and that is not solved by spending a few hundred million here. This is solved by training efforts.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-898	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by correcting the picture of what it was like during the old government's time that Anders W Jonsson started with. When you listen to representatives of the alliance parties you can sometimes think that it was the real golden age for welfare in Sweden. But the facts remain: taxes were reduced by 140 billion. You had unemployment when you gave up power that was higher than when you took office. There were fewer employees in public welfare than after the crisis in the 1990s. A government deficit was left behind. All of this left great breaks in the welfare, as the current government is doing everything to fix. It invests 10 billion in this year's budget in general state grants that municipalities and county councils can use to fix these breaks and to develop in the future. At least SEK 5 billion has been announced for 2018 to develop healthcare, primary care and other parts of welfare, among other things. Anders W Jonsson is very evil about the targeted state grants. The question then had to be asked about this golden age when Anders W Jonsson was involved and was able to exert great influence. I believe that he was even chairman of the Social Affairs Committee and of his party's health policy spokesperson. Why, then, did you not exercise your influence to correct the shortcomings in the targeted state subsidies? There would have been every possibility in the world to do that.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-902	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate Anna-Lena Sörenson requesting a reply so that I can develop the big difference. Firstly, with regard to targeted state subsidies, I said twice in my speech that both governments, all governments, have been equally good cabbage drinkers. There were far too much targeted state contributions even during the time of the alliance government. That is why I think it would have been an advantage if both the former alliance government and the current red-green left-wing government had been able to take on board the criticism of the National Audit Office and say: We must do something about this. This is not a good way to control Swedish health care. We do not say totally no to targeted state subsidies. They are needed in certain special cases. But if you go to the Swedish National Audit Office's point, as the committee's majority now does, you get a clear framework for how to use them and when to use them. Secondly, one of the most important decisions we take in this House is how to ensure that the local government sector has sufficient financial resources. It is only there to read the financial statements of the Swedish public economy. It clearly shows that yes, taxes were reduced by 140 billion in the period 2006 to 2014. But in 2014 we had all the time high in terms of tax revenue in Sweden. For the local government sector, it was plus 200 billion on the revenue side. Part of it was the general state subsidies, which increased by 40 to 45 billion, but a significant part of the financial contribution was about more people getting into work. This is the very basis for how we support health care in Sweden, not the targeted state subsidies – which have now been taken to a new height in that the current government uses them as a way to buy the Left Party's votes by allowing the Left Party to dictate what are the major medical needs right now. That is regrettable.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-907	Mr President, I would like to I think we should give the debate a little bit. A letter in response to the Swedish National Audit Office's reports is often about what the government does to correct the shortcomings that are often seen. The government also acknowledges in its letter that it is doing this work – just like other governments, as Anders W Jonsson points out. That is why I find it strange that neither Anders W Jonsson nor the representatives of the other alliance parties can see what the government is doing and actually acknowledge part of it, that it can be a good job. The government works a lot to make the targeted state grants general. It works with dialogue. These agreements are being worked on. Anders W Jonsson says that decisions should be made where responsibility can be demanded. I agree. We agree, and we hold municipal self-government very high. At the same time, we see – I believe that both Anders W Jonsson and I are doing – the major challenges that not least health care and healthcare are facing. Perhaps more muscle could have been needed to develop knowledge management in health care. I therefore find it regrettable that the Center Party condemned the regional reform that could have solved some of those problems. When Anders W Jonsson defends municipal self-government, I think that in other contexts he does not hesitate to force municipalities and county councils to introduce care choices and free establishment, where regulation and certification are to take place with officials in Stockholm and not with the elected politicians in municipalities and county councils.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-913	Mr President, I would like to The last is as soon as an example of how I believe that we in Parliament should govern health care and the municipal sector, namely through legislation where we say: What rights does the individual have? Yes, you have the right to choose primary care and specialist care regardless of where you live. These are the control methods we're going to use. What we are going to add to this to ensure that the regional differences that we have and which are extremely troublesome is to become much more skilled in quality registers, because if something is in health care, it is competitive. You don't like being the worst, you want to be the best. Then we make sure that there are sufficient records where you can see how you are on this particular medical diagnosis in relation to other clinics, it is a much better control instrument than suddenly finding out that now we are going to have targeted state grants for maternity care for a few years, and then maybe we are choosing targeted state grants for something else because the Left Party demands it to vote in favour of our budget. That's how we in the Center Party want to control Swedish health care.
i-5e0f47891b90a4f6-915	Mr President, I would like to This is an important report because it clarifies how we should make the best use of tax funds. We have municipal self-determination in Sweden. It places a great responsibility on county councils and municipalities to use their tax money and the general state grant that goes out to municipalities and county councils and is adapted to their different payment capacity. They have a responsibility to live up to the framework laws we have and to live up to the guidelines that authorities set out. And so we have the supervision that they really comply with the laws so that we have a system that works well. Then there's the extra money. As Anders W Jonsson said, they are a very small part, but it is important that they are used correctly. Here, the Swedish National Audit Office has taken note of the criticism that has existed for a long time under various governments against how the funds have operated and influenced with displacement effects. I have said before in this House that they have sometimes been called poisoned money precisely because they have run the wrong way out in municipalities and county councils. The Swedish National Audit Office has now taken note of the criticism and designed how funds should be used in the best way. The government has commented on this and then we in the alliance parties have tightened it up further, as the report shows. I want to liken this money to research funds. If we had used research funds in the way that government grants have been used in long sections, it would have been wasted funds. When you go in with contributions of this kind, it is important to look at the hypothesis and what you want to achieve, that it is not a lasting support and that you develop new knowledge and experience or perhaps very compressed education that has proven to be lacking. It is therefore important to have a deadline and to follow up on how things go and to catch up if it was not such a bright idea. This is clear from the report, which we therefore support.
