i-9d3b986136ea16d8-5	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson has asked me for what reasons I and the government have taken no initiatives of our own and whether we intend to take any initiatives at EU level to stop Nord Stream 2. He has also asked whether I am prepared to work for legislation that makes it clear that municipal self-government does not include the right to take decisions that affect Swedish foreign and security policy. Oscarsson has also asked questions about the government's knowledge of the content of all agreements concluded between Karlshamn and Nord Stream 2's subcontractors and whether it is reasonable for Gazprom to be kept confidential. Finally, Mr Oscarsson asks what measures I am prepared to take in view of the fact that the agreement between the port and Wasco is based on incorrect information. Mikael Oscarsson opens his long series of questions with the assumption that the government has not taken any initiatives at EU level in relation to Nord Stream 2. This is not true, as Mikael Oscarsson is well informed about. The Prime Minister has raised the issue in the European Council and the Energy Minister in the Energy Council. Together with his Danish colleague, the Minister for Energy has recently sent a letter to the two Commissioners responsible for energy in the EU. The government has also held regular talks with EU Member States, the Commission and other stakeholders. The message from the Swedish side has consistently been that Sweden wants to ensure that EU law is complied with and that the objectives of the European Union are respected. Here the Commission's assessments play a very important role, and we have therefore asked the Commission to present its assessment to the Member States. We also expect all EU Member States to take joint responsibility to ensure that the EU's legal, security and political interests are protected. I share Mikael Oscarsson's view that there is reason to review the legislation on issues relating to the interests of the total defence. Let me therefore refer him to the government's recently adopted national security strategy, where it can be read that the government will carry out a review of what constitutional changes may need to be made in order to better meet the state's need to defend the interests of the total defence in different areas of society. This review is currently being prepared in the Government Office through the preparation of comitology directives and is intended to be decided in due course. We from the government, Mr President, have had a comprehensive and good dialogue with Karlshamn municipality on the implementation of the planned activities. The Government has informed Karlshamn about the general security policy situation around the Baltic Sea and the defence policy interests in the area. We make the assessment that the planned operations in Karlshamn can be handled satisfactorily by the relevant authorities in collaboration taking safety-enhancing measures. Decisive to the government's position has been an overall picture, not individual data on the number of ships calling at the port. I note that the port of Karlshamn will not be leased out, but that the port company will sell a logistics solution that takes care of the operations on land, including unloading, storage and loading of the pipe elements. Karlshamn is also a commercial port that already handles a significant trade flow, with partly Russian connections. Trade across the Baltic Sea continues to be a strong Swedish interest, both economically and politically.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-12	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I have taken note of the Danish-Swedish letter from Minister of Energy Baylan and Danish Minister of Energy Lars Christian Lilleholt, who was sent to the European Commission at the same time as the government in Stockholm bowed down to Karlshamn's question. The fact that Nord Stream 2 does not match the policy objectives of differentiating energy sources and reducing the need for fossil energy sources is already well known. It was also confirmed yesterday, on 27 February, at the meeting of the energy ministers in Brussels, when the European Commission once again made a clear statement that Nord Stream 2 is not needed and that it goes completely against the policy objectives of the Energy Union. However, it is up to the EU Member States to put an end to the project. This applies mainly to the neighbouring countries and, of course, mainly to Germany. The European Commission itself lacks the power to take a security policy decision. Let us remember that Nord Stream 2 is 100% owned by Gazprom, which in turn is controlled by the Russian state and can thus be counted as the Kremlin's extended arm. The fact that Nord Stream 2's subcontractors will be allowed to use parts of the port in Karlshamn is contrary to the interests and security of the Swedish defence in both the short and long term. This is the view of Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist on 13 December. He went on to say that this would make the implementation of the 2015 defence agreement more difficult. The government announced again in January that it is making such a serious assessment that it will have to take specific classified measures to counter the threat posed by Nord Stream 2's subcontractors' agreement with Karlshamn. The question I find important to ask is: What is Sweden's initiative? Why does the government not highlight in the public debate the defence and security policy implications that Nord Stream 2 has for Sweden? Why is the Swedish Government most interested in hearing again that the European Commission does not like the project? The European Commission's representatives have been clear about this for a long time. What does Sweden do specifically to put an end to security threats? What is the government doing to raise the awareness of other countries of the damage caused directly by the new Russian gas pipeline for the safety of Sweden and other Baltic Sea countries? Has the security threats been discussed with Germany's defence attaché and the Ministry of Defence? Has NATO been talked about the problem? We know that when Biden, then vice president of the United States, was here, he said: This is an understatement. But how do you use the information that it is a threat to Sweden's security? Are there agreements with other Baltic States' defence forces on how to protect the safety of the Baltic Sea if Nord Stream 2 is built? How can we help Ukraine, which loses a large part of its ability to resist Russian blackmail and is already the victim of Russian crimes against international law and constant military attacks? Furthermore, there is the question of the 700 ships that have been used in Blekinge. On February 2, 2017, the Blekinge Läns Tidning announced that the task of 700 Russian ships to Karlshamn harbour in several national media is untrue – these are seven Russian ships. Nevertheless, Minister Wallström explained at the press conference on 13 January that the Russian business in Karlshamn is so important to the port. Have municipal politicians and even the government been misled by misinformation that the port has handed over to decision-makers?
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-23	Mr President, I would like to There is no lack of self-righteous comments. However, I cannot help reminding Mikael Oscarsson that the party to which he is a member was actually part of the then alliance government which in 2009 allowed Nord Stream to place the first two pipelines in the Swedish economic zone. By then Russia had used military force against Georgia. This already happened in 2008. Russia had also blocked the supply of gas to Ukraine and the EU on two occasions. Yet the then government chose to keep the foreign and security policy away from the preparation of the permit dossier. It was a natural consequence of then, as the government now does, respecting the law of the sea and applying applicable laws and regulations. I do not know that any other measures were taken by the Swedish side in Brussels or other capitals to stop Nord Stream on foreign or security policy grounds. I mention this not just to criticise the alliance government but to put Mikael Oscarsson's criticism in relief to how his colleagues in the then government actually acted. Nor have I heard that Mikael Oscarsson has influenced those who could really make a difference, namely his party colleagues in Germany, for example. They're the ones buying the gas. That is what will determine whether this is a commercially interesting company in the future. The government must ensure that we act on the basis of international law and that what we do rests on a solid and legally secure basis and that it is based on as complete a knowledge as possible of the relevant facts. Therefore, during 2016, a solid work was carried out within the Government Office on the possibilities for applying the current Swedish constitution and the framework set by the Constitution for municipal self-government. At the same time, we took in information from both the relevant authorities and the various actors at the local level. On the basis of this work, the Government made an overall assessment of which measures were appropriate in relation to the decisions taken at local level. At EU level, we have consistently pursued the line that Nord Stream 2 must be compatible with relevant parts of EU law and respect the energy policy objectives of the Energy Union. This must also have been the case when the previous government decided on Nord Stream. It is not enough to argue that the project must be stopped if it is not clear what legal and political conditions exist to achieve such a result. Does Mikael Oscarsson think we should act without having a legal basis for this? What would that look like? The Commission's assessments are crucial in terms of EU policy and energy policy. The government has clearly stated that we expect the Commission to carry out a thorough review of how this is in line with EU legislation and with the objectives of the Energy Union and to report back to the Member States before the EU, hopefully, can agree on a common line on the future of the gas pipeline. The government has discussed from the outset which constitutional changes need to be made in order for us to meet the needs of the total defence. That is why we are now setting up an investigation to come up with concrete proposals on what these constitutional changes should look like. That investigation is complemented by a review of security protection in the case of outsourcing of security-sensitive activities.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-33	Mr President, I would like to The Government says that the previous government would have thought about this in 2009, when decisions were made on Nord Stream. But it is a government's responsibility to make decisions based on today's situation. This could certainly have been done better in 2009, but here we are today. In the near future, the Minister of Defence has made it clear that this is bad for Sweden's security. You have to make decisions based on the current situation. What is the government doing to increase the awareness of other countries about the damage that the new Russian gas pipeline is doing to Sweden's security? Karlshamn's eagerness to earn a number of millions in Russian gas business is in stark contrast to the statement that yesterday came from Norrköping. Lars Stjernkvist, municipal councillor in Norrköping and former party secretary for the Social Democrats, says that the situation is much more charged now, with the situation in Ukraine and with Putin's increasing tone. Stjernkvist says that today we cannot see a security policy threat, but the deal affects Norrköping for a few years to come, and then security must go ahead of the money. This is the key – security must take precedence over money. As regards the agreement on Gotland, which was negotiated, it was said that the government undertakes to try to limit the information disclosed and will inform Nord Stream when such a request from third parties has been made. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has not touched on this issue at all. Is such an agreement, a matter of national security, really compatible with the Swedish principle of public access? And is the government transparent about the agreements that have now been concluded? It has come to the conclusion that even the politicians responsible locally in Karlshamn do not know what is in the agreement. This makes you suspicious. Is it the same type of agreement that has now been concluded, and is it compatible with the Swedish principle of public access? A strange thing, which the Foreign Minister does not comment on, is all these Russian ships that have been highlighted. According to Blekinge Läns Tidning, there are actually seven of them. What about the various facts that have been circulating? When I look at this whole operation, I wonder, ‘ Where is the pervasive thought? ' It said no to sign the joint letter in March, along with seven other countries. It was also very late to inform the party colleagues. Why is the question of national security not more important to the government?
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-40	Mr President, I would like to It is evident that Mikael Oscarsson is incredibly committed to this issue, and he comes with a lot of details. I remember that we stood here and debated about the same thing at the end of August or the beginning of September. Then we heard the Foreign Minister say that you may not think that Nord Stream 2 is a great idea, but you have not yet found any legal basis to say no to the project. A few minutes ago, I heard that the Minister for Foreign Affairs once again asked Mikael Oscarsson on what grounds he believes that the government would act and, if so, say no to this. I ask the same question to Mikael Oscarsson: Should we violate international law? What basis has Mikael Oscarsson found to be able to stop this project?
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-42	Mr President, I would like to I'm just asking Mikael Oscarsson to act and argue consistently. The tone is high on a large and complex issue that he well knows that the government has handled in the best way possible. The Alliance government managed Nord Stream 1 as a strictly commercial project. The government has carried out a thorough analysis of Nord Stream 2 and reached some conclusions. Firstly, there are no international legal conditions to stop the project as long as Nord Stream 2 meets the environmental requirements that can be set. Nor can the government override local self-government and must respect freedom of contract and business. Secondly, the port of Karlshamn will not be opened to Nord Stream 2, but the work on land will be carried out by the port's own organisation. There the two ports, Slite and Karlshamn, differ. It is a strong Swedish interest that trade continues to be conducted across the Baltic Sea. A questioning of the operations in Karlshamn, as it stands, would lead to far-reaching questions about the government's general approach to trade with and traffic to and from Russia. Together, the Commission and the Member States of the European Union should find a common approach to the future of the project in terms of energy policy objectives, and that is the objective that we are working towards. We shall ensure that we comply with our international legal obligations, and we shall ensure that this can be done in combination with respecting our energy policy objectives as they are formulated in the European Union. As I said: Mikael Oscarsson could make an even greater effort by lying on his party friends in Germany, for example, which will be future buyers of Russian gas. This, of course, also justifies the construction of this gas pipeline. It is important for me to say that it is not enough to argue that the project must be stopped if it is not clear what legal and political conditions exist to achieve such a result.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-49	Mr President, I would like to So the statement is that the government is doing everything in the best way and that there is nothing more to say about it. It's hard for me to fit in with that chorus. Looking back in the rear-view mirror, it has always turned out that it has not been planned for this. The joint letter could have been signed, but it was not signed with the other countries. You could have put your foot down this spring. We had discussions at the beginning of autumn. At that time, my suggestion was that we should be quick to talk about that we should not join the ports. Then they say: now we have a problem with the legislation. The government could, of course, then have had a foresight and made sure that it had taken the initiative. The Alliance had been benevolent and made sure that we had the tools in place. It is not good enough in a country like Sweden that matters relating to national security should be decided in any of the committees out in any municipality. That's completely unreasonable. That needs to change right away. The question that comes back to me and many others who are looking at this here: how have we ended up where we are today? Is it a direct result of the government's unwillingness to bear responsibility? Now the Minister for Foreign Affairs says: It would be good if Mikael Oscarsson used his contacts in Germany. I'd love to. But let's start with the government. Is it not reasonable to tell why the Minister for Defence considers it a threat to Sweden's security? Is it not important to ensure that this information goes to neighbouring countries that it is important for Sweden? Where is the commitment of the government when it really comes to it?
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-53	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mikael Oscarsson. The Alliance approved Nord Stream 1. It does not hold that, on the basis that you are now saying to act on Nord Stream 2, in a way that runs the risk of disregarding the rule of law, overlooks the facts on the ground and, by extension, can also undermine Swedish foreign and security policy interests in the form of inter-people relations, free trade and the cohesion of the EU. On what legal basis could we act? We have ensured from the outset that we have checked what we can do to fulfil all our legal obligations. We have looked at how we can act in the European context. We cooperate with other countries, and we will always look after our own defence and security interests in everything we do. We have acted quite legally correctly. In addition, we will ensure that an investigation is set up, as did the Alliance Government, which looks after the needs of the total defence. We will see to it what we need to change when it comes, for example, to municipal self-government, if that is where the problem lies. Or there may be other legislation that needs to be put in place in order for us to be able to look at security policy interests at all times. We've started that work. It was a discussion that started when we began to look at the matter. The truth is, nothing happened after Nord Stream 1. Nothing can be proven to have been introduced after Nord Stream 1 which would somehow upset what we have done and the decisions we have taken at this stage. We will continue to act on a legal basis. We will continue to act in favour of Sweden's interests in terms of security and defence.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-57	Mr President, I would like to AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has asked me what concrete measures and initiatives I intend to take to improve and speed up so that new arrivals enter the labour market via the fast track of the Employment Service. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson asked me the same question in the parliamentary question 2016/ 17:526 Fast track in the labour market. Creating stronger and faster pathways to the labour market for the many people who have come to Sweden is a challenge the government takes very seriously. The Government has taken and intends to take further measures with a view to strengthening the opportunities for establishment of new arrivals. We have high ambitions for our establishment policy. Sweden should be a role model for other countries. A significant proportion of the new arrivals who are currently seeking their place in the Swedish labour market have training and experience of professions that are currently characterised by labour shortages. Demand for skilled labour is record high in the public sector and very high in parts of the private sector. The effective and determined use of the skills of many newcomers helps us to respond more quickly to this labour shortage and thus also to support further positive employment developments. Historically, it has taken far too long for newcomers to enter the professions they have training for and experience of from their home countries. This is why the government took the initiative in spring 2015 to take a fast track together with the social partners. The fast track helps employers to get the right skills while new arrivals get to work in their profession.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-62	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would like to start by saying that I believe that fast track is a good initiative and that I am also keen to get people to work in different ways. This should be one of several ways forward. As the Government mentioned, I have asked the Government a written question about the fast track. I have also heard answers to other questions in this House in the autumn. This is an extremely important issue. It is a pity that the fast tracks that quickly came into place since have been a longer and tougher process and that they then did not become fast track. Since I asked my question, I have, among other things, obtained more information about cooking training, as it has been clear from the beginning from the industry that they see fast track as a good way into the profession because it is a shortage profession. There should then be lower thresholds in this labour market from that perspective. There are calls for: We are here. We want to help. We want to take part in this. We're willing to train cooks. There were 300 chefs in the establishment assignment in autumn 2015. It is an assignment that I think is an identified number of people who have a background in their profession as a chef or who have knowledge in different ways from working with cooking from their home countries and who are therefore selected by the Employment Service. A survey should have been carried out of these people who are going into the training of the industry's trainees in the common track. When you look at 2016 and results on the number of validated people, you are undeniably wondering what has happened to the other people who would be validated and supplement their training programmes. Are they in a line that someone doesn't know about? Or is the figure of 300 chefs an estimate of someone within the authority without verification from the start? Where does the figure come from, one wonders, since it is not connected with what is happening in reality? The 300 chefs promised quickly brought the parties to an agreement. It was also the first trade out. I am thinking of a picture where there are premises and trained staff, and they have a belief that 300 people are coming in. On 1 June 2016, there were 22 professional assessors at 21 companies in cities and regions divided into Skåne, Lund, Gothenburg, Stockholm, Falun-Borlänge, Östersund, Sundsvall, Umeå, Linköping and Skövde. It is far from all these who have fulfilled that they have the training and have come to the fore. The regional offices of employment services in each region are in contact with the participants who have been refilled. If I understand it correctly, it is not the Arbetsförmedlingen that organised the start-up meetings in the country with the exception of Stockholm. It was also a criticism that has been made. With that information, I wonder: What is the plan for the roles? How was it from the beginning? How clear has the process been developed? Undeniably, people have fallen further between the chairs of various parties. It's hard that it hangs loose when it comes to who's responsible for what. Does anyone expect someone else to do something, and if so, what is someone else expected to do? So when these fast tracks were started, which were also quick to get in place, it was quite fast. Maybe it went too fast? Or was it something that slipped along the road when things went this fast? Obviously, there have also been shortcomings in the process since validations have been made to employers. It is a logistical issue, which is also linked to the whole process from ax to loaf. How have people moved on, and how are they going to move on?
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-72	Mr President, I would like to On a normal day, some 900,000 people don't go to work. According to government figures, the number will increase to about 1 million. In recent years, it is in the order of a quarter of a million people who have applied for asylum in Sweden. Some are allowed to stay, others are not. Added to this is the immigration of family members. Some of the people who come here are very experienced and well educated, and others are not. All in all, this poses major challenges that Sweden will face in the coming years. We know about our own track record, which shows that after nine is about half of those who have come to Sweden have been in work. One in four has had a full-time job. Then, of course, there must be a broad reform agenda in order to get more jobs and growing companies. It is about more simple jobs, grant ceilings, tripled RUT and a lot of other things. It is also about the fast track initiative, which is an important initiative to try to get people into the labour market faster. Mr President, I would like to Several industries have jumped on this to see if you can make it work. This applies not least to the tourism industry, where both trade unions and employers were out early when the government came up with the initiative. However, I think that a number of questions have also been raised in connection with this: what is the outcome, and how can this progress? One example is the trade. Trade is an important industry in Sweden. There is no fast track because the parties do not agree. We know from the past that there are plenty of jobs in trade. It is not simple jobs, but it is often low-threshold jobs that can mean fantastic opportunities to enter the Swedish labour market. In this respect, however, this door is closed, and there is no possibility. This actually belongs to trade, and there is an initiative linked to pharmacists. It has been identified that there are 600 people among the new arrivals. At present, it is reportedly in the order of 40 to 50 who have been in the fast track. It is said that there are some problems with the National Board of Health and Welfare when it comes to mapping, processing, regulations and other things. The question is asked: How can it be in this way? Mr President, I would like to There is a third example, namely the tourism industry, on which Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson spoke. It has been identified in the order of 300 chefs, and according to information from Visita, 81 people have gone through fast track. The question is: Where are the others of these 300? Reasonably, there should also be considerably more of the 163 000 who applied for asylum in Sweden the other year who have experience of working as a chef or something else in the restaurant industry. Mr President, I would like to There are a number of questions you can ask the Minister for Labour and Establishment. The first concerns the example of Swedish trade, and it is the broadest. We know that there are important workplaces there. Now that the parties are not in agreement – does the Minister for Labour think that this is reasonable, or is she prepared to contribute to a fast track in such an industry even in cases where the parties do not agree 100%? The second issue is linked to the specific pharmaceutical track. If there are only 40 – 50 out of 600 persons identified who are in the fast track – what does the Minister, via the National Board of Health and Welfare or others, do to ensure that this is addressed? The third question is linked to the tourism industry. Now it is apparently 81 chefs who have gone through fast track even though we know that in the tourism industry there is a great need for chefs. Members and restaurant owners have invested money and will themselves. I wonder: what is the minister prepared to contribute to make this work better? The industry itself testifies that Arbetsförmedlingen only points out people in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö and not in other cities around the country. Finally, the Minister writes in her reply to Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson that it is about addressing obstacles to a smooth process. Then I ask myself: what does the Minister intend to do in concrete terms to make this work better than it has done so far?
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-85	Mr President, I would like to Let me first thank Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson for her commitment. I think it is good that there is a broad consensus around the fast track. The aim is not for someone to take precedence over someone else, but for it simply to go faster. We're not gonna have time to die. We're not gonna have to wait any longer. The fast track for chefs was indeed the fast track that got started the fastest. The parties and the industry were able to receive 300 people per year in validations and within the fast track. Supervisors were trained for this. That was the industry's own assessment. The Public Employment Service has failed to identify skills in order to be able to assign people to the fast track to an adequate extent. It was just over 80 people last year. Let me just say that it is unacceptable. The Public Employment Service must deliver better when it comes to identifying skills and selecting the right people for the fast track. No shadow should fall on the parties in this context, but it is the Public Employment Service that has to deliver much better. The Arbetsförmedlingen now has a new organization around this and new managers of the fast track. I met the parties myself in the fast track for chefs last Friday when we had a meeting at the department with them and with the responsible people in Arbetsförmedlingen. The aim was to ensure that we get quick contacts directly in order to remove the barriers that have existed both in relation to certain procurement problems and in relation to assigning a sufficient number of suitable persons. I am absolutely convinced that there are far more than 300 people who are suitable for the fast track. We also made it clear that the fast track can, of course, also be aimed at those who are not new arrivals. For example, the restaurant union has testified that you have people in your unemployment fund who have experience in working as a chef. These are people who may need to refresh and validate their skills in order to be able to get back into their profession, and of course we will also open the fast track for this. I follow the fast track very closely, each of them. This applies not least to those responsible for the chefs, whom I have just met. It is totally unacceptable that we are not getting people at a sufficient pace when there are obviously many people who would be suitable for the fast track. I'm sure of it. The different fast tracks have slightly different dynamics. Some have rolled very well, and others have had some initial problems. For all the fast track where some kind of problem has been identified, my State Secretary himself has met the parties to go through and hand-on solve the problems that may exist and which, of course, we must solve. One should honestly say that the parties have been both faster and more flexible than Arbetsförmedlingen. That's good. But it is also important that the Public Employment Service becomes faster and more flexible in its way of working in order to meet a rapidly changing labour market and, not least, the great needs of employers in the labour market. Lars Helmered addresses the need for more jobs and growing companies. That is exactly what we have; we have more jobs and growing companies. It's growing so hard, it's creaking. The main problem right now is to find the right people with the right skills to fill the vacancies and to help those who do not have the right skills to raise their skills so that they also have a chance to enter the labour market. When it comes to the processing times at the National Board of Health and Welfare, I am not primarily responsible, but I know that the government has invested very large resources – increased processing resources – on the National Board of Health and Welfare in order to be able to assess foreign degrees. Time has also been considerably reduced, but unfortunately, when it comes to how much I have no task with me here in the speaker's chair today.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-95	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your follow-up. It is gratifying to get a straight answer, even if it is a sad one. I had written down a number of points, but I am now counting on the Council of State to take this on board. It was a clear answer that it does not work at Arbetsförmedlingen as it should. I am thinking of the report that came in October that we spoke about last and to which the Government referred. It would clarify a number of things, and then there would be a meeting with those responsible for each fast track, if I understood it correctly. In January it was seen in the hospitality industry that it stood still and felt empty when it comes to chefs. Arbetsförmedlingen has replied that a reply can be given by March. It feels a bit like a process that has a lot of emptiness in itself, and it does not look any better in the future either. It was a bit strange because the report that was written in October must have been preceded by a lot of collecting the facts. I would like to add something to the discussion about the role of Lernias and their work in training. At the same time, there has been a decommissioning process, as I understand it. Lernia is on site in places where you should have worked with them. It is said that there is no agreement left, despite the fact that there is actually an agreement that has not been terminated. I wonder what the situation is with that part because it would mean that someone would be paid at the same time not to do anything while something else is not going on. I would also like to know whether it is possible to get answers from the Minister to whether there are targeted funds and any timetable for this forward. There is a continuous follow-up, but are there any strict times for Arbetsförmedlingen now when it comes to delivering things and getting this in place? Does Arbetsförmedlingen need new or more tools? Is there a need for internal training? Is it another mindset that's needed? What is needed for this to be put into effect?
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-100	Mr President, I would like to Let me start with this with pharmacists. If in the order of 600 pharmacists who have come from other countries have been identified and at the same time we know that Swedish pharmacies are really screaming for pharmacists, but only 40 – 50 of them have entered the fast track, it is a failure that I hope can be vigorously tackled. It is about quickly and easily getting people into the Swedish labour market. When it comes to this with the fast track in the tourism industry, it is an industry that really wants and has invested its own money and staff to, for example, look at how validation can be done in the workplace and in the restaurant kitchen. You look at what experience there is and what shortcomings there are. It has been found that the Employment Service, says the industry itself, has not been able to provide people with appropriate training to fill the gaps that exist. It doesn't make sense that it works that way. Furthermore, Mr President, it has once again been borne out that they can only assign people – so far in any case – to Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. There are a lot of restaurants around other parts of the country too. Members of Visita have prepared to receive persons. I'm thinking this just has to be handled. It is not reasonable that this is the way it is. Then, Mr President, I would also like to address the issue of trade as an example. If the parties do not agree 100%, there will in practice be no fast track, and this means closing the door to an important part of the Swedish labour market for fast track and good opportunities for new arrivals to enter. Then I wonder: Is the Minister prepared to do something to make it a fast track, for example in the area of trade? To conclude, Mr President, I would like to highlight this with coordination numbers and personal identity numbers. We know that this is like a sacred grail when it comes to getting into Swedish society, getting a bank account, being able to draw A-tax, doing adjustment and a lot of other things. We know from many employers that that is a huge problem that I hope can be tackled broadly to make it easier for people to get into society.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-106	Mr President, I would like to I think Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson raises an important question about whether the Arbetsförmedlingen is ready and whether you need other tools, internal training or change your mindset, as Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson says, to work better with the fast track. I think the answer to that question is yes or at least partly yes. For many years, the Employment Service has not worked in this way to meet employers' needs. It's a new way of working. Nor has it been working towards education in the way that we are now asking them to do. This is absolutely essential if we are to meet the important demand from employers. I believe it is justified, and it is about the Arbetsförmedlingen helping to ensure their skills needs. There is therefore a great need for internal training within the Employment Service to meet this. A lot of people already do this, I'll tell you. We have had several external assessments of Arbetsförmedlingen. You can say that what you see is that Arbetsförmedlingen is heading in the right direction. But one can also have a criticism, which I have, that it is going very slowly in relation to the great needs that we have. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson raises the issue of Lernia. I don't know for sure what you mean, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, but maybe it's about the procured validation agreement that Lernia has had but that they didn't win in the next procurement. Another supplier thus won that contract. Of course, it is appropriate to send as many people as possible in the existing system before the end of the contract. I believe that everyone is valiant of it as long as that agreement is in force, but then another supplier comes in who has won the new procurement. That is what happens when you have procurements, and that is also, you have to say, the intention, that someone should be able to be competed out by someone else. This is the basic idea of public procurement, but it is clear that this means switching from one supplier to another. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson also raises the question of whether Arbetsförmedlingen needs new tools. Yeah, so do they. An important tool that they need is a change in the establishment mandate. I expect to come to Parliament shortly with such proposals. The current regulatory framework is very much governed by law. This means that it is very inflexible, and it also means that it is limited in the establishment assignment what requirements Arbetsförmedlingen can impose on the individual. It is also quite heavily burdened with bureaucracy where you have to follow up every hour in order for the individual to get his/her remuneration. My intention is to reform the start-up assignment and keep the focus on jobs and retain the responsibility of Arbetsförmedlingen but at the same time ensure that we can treat new arrivals in the start-up assignment in the same way as other unemployed people. This means greater flexibility and clearer opportunities to make demands on the individual, for example, to take on assigned work, go to assigned education or other measures that are deemed most appropriate for the person to be able to strengthen his or her position in the labour market and eventually also get a job. It is reasonable for us to be able to make demands within the start-up mission in the same way as we do for other unemployed people and for there to be flexibility similar to that of other labour market policies. A proposal for such a change is expected to be submitted to Parliament shortly. I hope, because it is also part of the migration agreement, that we will have broad support in Parliament for these changes. Lars Helmered addresses problems with coordination numbers and bank accounts. There is a legitimate demand from banks to prove their identity in order to open a bank account. It is a bit contrary to how quickly everyone can get a coordination number, because it is about how to prove their identity and what requirements can and must, I believe, be made in order to have the opportunity to open a bank account. These are issues that the government is working intensively on.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-115	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I want to start with what Lars Helmered was into about the industry. When this agreement was made – I continue to talk about the tourism industry because I have been looking at this matter of cooking education – they went into this with the statement from Arbetsförmedlingen that it is about 300 people. It is, once again, very strange that you started at that end without having the map that you imagine to be there when different parties enter and have responsibility for different parts. Obviously, this responsibility has not been assumed in that it has been said that it is a matter of mapping. So someone has put a figure on something, and I can agree with the Government and imagine that you can find more than that in the system. It is unfortunate because the second has been in place. The contract was mentioned. There I have also understood that Arbetsförmedlingen has not functioned as a public authority, because the procurement is done so that purchases are planned in good time, and long before a purchase is completed, the process begins with the new one. If I have understood correctly, these processes have not got started as they should, but it will be a surprise. M an wakes up and says: Oh, we have a number of procurements to do! It is a problem that not only the Employment Service has but also others. It is most unfortunate because it is about a lot of money and about getting the best possible benefit and quality for the money. I look forward to the new and reformed mission that we will hear about. It'll be here shortly. We do not really know what that means, but if there is a possibility for that, we would like to have a date for the delivery of these changes and targets. The Government has expressed an ambition for women and men to be in education in two years' time. The question is whether it will succeed. At least we look forward to the renewal of Arbetsförmedlingen.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-120	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for this important debate. I'm counting on the bill to come in according to plan. It is on the bill list and will be able to be dealt with by the Riksdag in spring as planned. I'm not making a different assessment. It goes without saying to me that all unemployed people who have experience of working as a chef should be tried and, if it seems appropriate, assigned to a fast track as a chef. Something else is not acceptable, given the high labour shortages we have. We will find the people who have that experience and who, with validation and supplementary training, can become perfect chefs. The lack of enough chefs hampers the development of the industry. We cannot accept anything but the success of this. I promise AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson that I will follow the question very closely.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-123	Mr President, I would like to Allan Widman has asked me what measures I am prepared to take as Minister for Defence to bring about a moratorium on the ongoing decommissioning in support of the freedom of action of the Material Investigation and the Defence Committee. The Government has clearly stated in the focus of the Swedish Armed Forces' operations for the years 2016 to 2020 that existing technically and operationally relevant equipment with residual life is not decommissioned without an adjustment of the relevant military unit specification first being tested, according to Government Decision 7 of 25 June 2015. The corresponding direction has also been given to the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration, according to Government Decision 8 of 25 June 2015. The meaning of the focus is that the potential benefits of usable surplus material should be carefully considered prior to possible decommissioning. The commissioning of ballasts to the re-established coastal robot battery is an example of how the usability of non-combustible materials can be re-evaluated. My picture is that such analyses take place continuously in the Swedish Armed Forces. In addition, the Authority reports upcoming decommissionings in its annual budget base, which allows the Government to examine planned measures against the governance provided in the orientation decision.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-125	Mr President, I would like to One of the first interpellations that I submitted as a Member of Parliament 15 years ago was about the solid coastal batteries that were located along the Swedish coasts. Not least in Skåne there were plenty of them. It was fairly modern facilities that were designed for investments corresponding to billions of SEK. In 2002, it was decided to phase them out. I then called the Regional Director of Fortificationsverket in Kristianstad and asked: What does it cost to phase out the Ersta battery in Trelleborg? He explained that it would fill up with topsoil, remove asbestos, and make different hand layings. He had just received an offer of SEK 30 million. I asked: What is the rent for the Swedish Armed Forces regarding this battery? It amounted to 300 000 SEK including maintenance. Mr President, I would like to The meaning is that we decommissioned this relatively modern equipment at a cost equivalent to 100 annual rents. It was a parenthesis. I note that the Minister for Defence does not respond directly to my question about a moratorium. He refers to a government decision stating that, where existing, technical and operational material with residual service life is not decommissioned without first testing an adjustment of the relevant military unit specification. Mr President, I would like to That is not what I would call a moratorium. For example, while we are talking, a very large mountain room is being flooded out at the Barkarby field. It is a rock room that is no longer used by the Air Force, but which is still used by the Livgarde to store equipment in a protected way. In the newspapers there is currently a debate about the submarine harbour on Gotland, more specifically in Fårösund. The Swedish Armed Forces left that port six seven years ago. It was claimed that the sound was too shallow for the new Visby corvettes. One would first establish itself in Kappelshamn, and then in Slite. There was nothing about it– I and the Minister of Defence have discussed this before in these speaking chairs. Now they want to get back to what they left six seven years ago. I could make a very long list of examples of decommissionings that should have been undone in the Swedish defence. Now we have a material investigation to look at the state of our equipment and infrastructure. What do we need to save for the future? What can be decommissioned? The conclusion of that investigation should go straight into the defence committee, without prior consultation, which will then make the political priorities. In order for us not, again, to make the mistake of dismantling something that the latter will prove to be necessary, I believe that during this reflection period all ongoing decommissioning within the Swedish Armed Forces should be stopped. I understand that the Minister does not share this assessment. However, he refers to a restored coastal robot battery. This is the case with the two heavy coastal robots on the truck that were developed last year. Is that the coastal robot battery really tied up and reinstated? Is it manned? Are there tactical, technical and economic objectives? Are there sensors? Have we appointed the head of that unit? Mr President, I would like to Unless the answer to all these questions is yes, one can hardly call it a restored coastal robot battery.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-138	Mr President, I would like to Over the years, there have probably been many things that one could question whether it was reasonable at all. And it probably happened a long time before I got into this. When faced with such a question as the submarine port in Fårösund, for example, there is really reason to think about what happened. Now, however, the Swedish Armed Forces, through the Fortifications Agency, have acted to return the port to the Swedish Armed Forces. The problem is that, according to the regulatory framework, it is the authority that should deal with it, and if there is no agreement, an expropriation procedure should take place. Before you can enter an expropriation situation, you must have made an effort to get along voluntarily. If it hasn't been done, you can't move on. The Swedish Armed Forces will then send an application to the Government, and the Government will take a position on the matter. If the government says yes to expropriation, the case will proceed through the possibility of applying to the Land and Environment Court, which will take a decision on this. It's a long and inconspicuous process. I hope the state will be able to regain the submarine port. But the rules that exist apply. Everyone should relate to them. It is not possible to do so in many other ways than it is now. In the case of the coastal robot battery, it was attended by the exercise that I attended some time ago. Widman is right that it is a coastal robot battery that is under dressing. That is the case. The Swedish Armed Forces will report on how the distribution of material has been made between the armed forces including the armed forces and the unit reserve in the 2018 budget base. Equipment deemed to be technically and operationally relevant but not allocated to military units or unit reserves shall be included in the material reserve. When the Armed Forces dismantled equipment instead of placing it in the material reserve, this should be justified. A decommissioning plan for the equipment deemed to be redundant after allocation shall be presented. ..................................................... It has been tightened up and created a demand for thoughtfulness. There should be a proper trial when you make this kind of decision. The aim is, of course, that supplies in storage and so on should be thoroughly tested before any decommissioning steps are taken. This was discussed in the former Defence Committee and has since been followed up in this regulation letter.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-147	Mr President, I would like to I am aware of the current situation regarding our possible establishment of naval forces in Fårösund, but that is not my question. I used this only as an example of how many ill-considered decommissionings are being carried out. Taking into account that the decommissioning of Fårösund took place as late as somewhere in 2008, 2009 it must be understood that the equipment systems and infrastructure from the 8 0 and 90's and perhaps even the 70's are infinitely easier for the Authority to consider irrelevant. However, if the decommissioning continues, there will be no freedom of action either for the material investigation or later for the Defence Preparation, and more children will have followed the bathing water into the sewage system. However, a moratorium is conditional on knowing from the outset what material it has. I believe that the recent logistics investigation under Ingemar Wahlberg suggested to the government that there should be a physical inventory of the Swedish Armed Forces' equipment including infrastructure. Since this is so closely linked to the question of a moratorium, I would like to ask the Minister whether the government intends to follow this recommendation, this proposal, from the logistics inquiry or not. As has been said, this is a prerequisite for freezing ongoing decommissioning operations for a short period of time. I am pleased that the Minister for Defence openly states that we have not yet been able to supply the new coastal robot battery. It is not therefore correct, as the Minister for Defence said in his reply to me, that this unit has now been reinstated.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-151	Mr President, I would like to I can only say that what is happening now with regard to the coastal robot battery is a process of dressing. It shall be fully bandaged and put into service. As far as the logistics investigation is concerned, it is ongoing. The investigation has been presented to the government, and we will come back to it after preparation with information on what we are doing with the various points in it. I do not intend to account for any part of the investigation, but we do so together when we are done with the whole process. In the case of various types of equipment and installations, it takes a long time to order both equipment and to build facilities. These are long lead times in the supply of equipment, and this means that it may be several years before the decisions we take today can generate operational effect. In order to increase the operational capability already in place, we are referring to the use of the material we already have at our disposal. I understand from the point of view that we must protect the material we have. That is why we have designed the directives in such a way as to tighten up the requirements for the preservation of existing equipment and to have extremely good motives for possible decommissioning. You don't have to close the door for everything that should happen in these parts. On the other hand, good reasons should be given in this context. The investigation into the Swedish Armed Forces' long-term material needs, led by Ingemar Wahlberg, has the task of describing precisely the long-term material needs and how to prioritise and streamline the material supply in the future. These are, in particular, the large equipment projects and the large reinvestment projects. The dimensions are therefore a little bit in different armies. This investigation is not primarily intended to safeguard and clarify the decommissioning issues that are the subject of this debate, but is concerned with large-scale materials to deal with future challenges. But, okay, you can always value different things in different contexts. The report will be presented in February 2018, and as I said, it will form the basis for the work of the Swedish Defence Committee. The report will be presented in May 2019. All this work aims to strengthen operational capabilities during the next defence-oriented period from 2021 onwards. The focus will be on the investments currently being made and those planned in the future. I therefore believe that there are simple and cost-effective ways to do much. The coast robot battery was a perfectly correct and good measure, and the participation in the training with the battery also gave a good safety policy signal in this context. It is also about reviewing whether we can do similar things in other areas with other systems that we have preserved within the Swedish Armed Forces and thus increase operational capabilities. We should also act without too much bearing on the various investigations that are being carried out. However, the task we have put on the authorities is to protect existing equipment and to be careful about decommissioning. There is a serious reason behind this, and it is laid down in both regulatory letters and directional decisions. These are directives which the government has very clearly supported and expressed as a focus for the work of the authorities.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-160	Mr President, I would like to I will readily admit that the government decisions, 7 and 8, which have been taken here, make the scope for decommissioning somewhat narrower. However, as I have done before, it is not a moratorium. It 中 s close, but it 中 s no cigar. Then, as the Minister for Defence points out, all the governments that I have experienced have engaged in more or less unconscious decommissioning of materials that would certainly have been useful in the future. Sure, it may be that the new material investigation should mainly look at the material supply, that is, the supply of material that is to enter the Swedish Armed Forces. But I hope that the investigation takes a holistic approach and weighs on the need for new procurement against the material that already exists in the Swedish Armed Forces and which can be good enough, as it is usually called. I do not think I received a clear answer from the Minister for Defence to the question of inventory of physical material. As has already been said, it is essential to know what kind of equipment you have before you allow decommissioning. Now we have a public investigation that has proposed that there should be a physical inventory of materials and infrastructure, but I take the view that the Minister for Defence does not want to give any information in that part and that, Mr President, pains me.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-164	Mr President, I would like to Now I told you what is normally the approach in connection with this type of investigation. This investigation is subject to consultation and will be the subject of a government commission. We will then take a position on all the proposals that lie in the investigation. Based on this, we then present the views of the various points of view. I have taken a full management perspective on this and have not preceded the final report. I guess that's what you normally do in these contexts. When it comes to the Armed Forces' equipment, what we have demanded from the Armed Forces is a clear statement of the distribution of equipment between military units, including Home Guards and Unit Reserves, and that materials deemed to be technically and operationally relevant but not allocated to military units or unit reserves should be included in the material reserve. In order to decommission equipment instead of placing it in the stock reserve, particular justification shall be given. It's the mission itself. I believe that this can also help to keep track of developments and what is happening in these matters. Allan Widman and I are in fact in agreement in the spirit of this debate. It is not that we basically have some major discriminating views on this. I will, of course, raise and continue this discussion with the Swedish Armed Forces, and I intend to follow up this debate with a discussion at the Ministry with the stakeholders involved. I am also going to bring this up with the Swedish Armed Forces in particular. Basically, we are going to use the stuff we have, and if we are now in a particular security policy situation, we need to be careful and think about these pieces. That is how I intend to follow up the debate.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-172	Mr President, I would like to Edward Ried l has asked me if it is my position that it would be better to control Umeå's air traffic from Arlanda instead of the other way round, and in that case for what reason. Edward Riedl has also asked me if I am prepared to take any action within the framework of my responsibility in the Government in connection with Swedavia's plans to move operations from Umeå to Stockholm. Edward Riedl has finally asked the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation if he has commissioned Swedavia to move government jobs from Umeå down to Stockholm. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who will also answer the interpellation to the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation. Since the three amendments concern essentially the same question, I choose to answer them in a context. I would like to begin by emphasising that the Government's objective of state presence over the country is clear and has produced results, inter alia by avoiding the closure of offices in smaller towns. The Government also continues to work on, among other things, the relocation of government agencies' activities and on promoting the development of citizens' services physically and digitally. However, the questions raised by Edward Riedl concern activities carried out by a State company which are therefore not covered by the objectives of the management policy. The answer to Edward Riedl's questions about where Umeå's air traffic will be controlled and whether Swedavia AB has been commissioned to move government jobs is that it is the state-owned company Swedavia AB and its management that makes decisions on how the company's operations will be conducted, both for Umeå airport and for the company's other airports. These decisions are made by the company on the basis of its mandate from the government and the owners in order to promote the company's operations. Swedavia AB pays for its own operations, infrastructure and investments. The Swedish Civil Aviation Authority is a provider of air traffic services to Swedavia AB. The discussion that is taking place between Swedavia AB and the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration is therefore not the subject of a government decision, but an agreement between the client and the supplier. The Government reports annually in a letter to the Riksdag how the administration of state-owned companies has been handled during the year. Regarding the question of measures within my area of responsibility in connection with Swedavia's plans, the answer is that Umeå Airport is part of the national basic offering that Swedavia AB is obliged to maintain. The meaning of the fact that an airport is part of the national base offer is that the airport may be closed only after approval by the Government. Otherwise, as I previously stated, Swedavia AB is responsible for operations and investments. I might add that it is essential for Sweden, for its regions and for individuals as well as for companies that good accessibility through the transport system as a whole and through a national basic range of well-functioning airports can continue to be maintained. A prerequisite for good accessibility is that airports can operate efficiently and with access to technological development. Digitalisation can enable increased accessibility while streamlining operations and providing conditions for increased security and coordination of services. It provides better conditions for living and working throughout the country. The technology also provides a significant potential for redundancy capacity, i.e. creates better conditions to cope with possible future disruptions.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-181	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The wholly owned state-owned company Swedavia owns, operates and develops our national base offering of ten airports. But now Swedavia, together with the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration, will centralise air traffic control in Sweden, and this means that about fifty well-paid jobs in cities such as Umeå, Östersund, Kiruna, Visby and Malmö will disappear. They will therefore remove those jobs and move them down to Stockholm. Let me say, Mr President, that I believe that remote control and the use of new technologies can basically be good for continuing to push costs, while maintaining safety. We can also do as the Alliance Government did in the last parliamentary term, that is to say, allow competition in this area. It put a lot of pressure on prices for many airports. Here, unfortunately, the Minister's Party of Social Democrats, together with the Swedish Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party, chose to impose restrictions, which means that Swedavia cannot make use of this possibility even though it would have liked to. If you move on with this centralisation and remote control, it is difficult for me to understand why you have to centralise this to Stockholm. If the technical possibility means that you don't have to sit at the airport you run, this would be an excellent opportunity to move these jobs away from Stockholm somewhere else out in the country. Mr President, I would like to I hear the Minister and her fellow ministers constantly talking about the need to relocate government jobs. Can the Minister tell us how many government jobs have been relocated to Västerbotten during this government? I have looked again, because I have had similar debates many times, and I cannot find any such jobs. But the Minister may be able to search for a job that has been managed to move from Stockholm to Västerbotten; I have not found anything. On the other hand, I now see that they intend to move a lot of jobs from our county down to Stockholm. The question is what will be so much better if you move this type of well-paid job out in other parts of the country, in places like Umeå, Kiruna and Östersund. What's getting better? Is the salary situation lower in Stockholm than in Kiruna? I do not think so – the Minister may have a different view. Do the staff in Umeå want to move down to Stockholm and avoid Umeå? No, that is not a reason to do this either. Is it the case, then, that the local costs are lower in Stockholm than in Östersund? No, it's probably exactly the opposite. The question then is why this kind of reverse regional policy is being pursued. This is a state-owned company, and I know how the Minister continued the argument. It is a state-owned company, but it is governed as a government also by its state-owned companies. Then, Mr President, I note that all these decisions put forward by the government happen to have the cape against Norrland. Now it is places like Umeå, Kiruna and Östersund. Next time, it's mileage tax and tax from a distance. It is a reverse regional policy that this government is pursuing. I have never experienced the husband – that the cape is so consistently directed towards a part of the country in the way the government does. So, Mr President, I would like to repeat my questions: how many government jobs has the government moved to Umeå and Västerbotten from Stockholm? Why can't you just do the opposite, i.e. move these jobs out of Stockholm into the country, if you can manage remotely? Finally, I would like to ask the Minister whether she would in any way like to help me stop this reverse regional policy, or whether the Minister thinks that the development that is taking place is good.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-194	Mr President, I would like to To begin with, the question is how many jobs may have been relocated to Västerbotten is perhaps a suitable subject for another interpellation to another minister. Had I understood that that question would be asked, I might have been able to find out the answer, but unfortunately I cannot. So when it comes to that question, I am unanswered. On the other hand, when it comes to air traffic management, as in this interpellation, it is, as I have also mentioned in the reply, Swedavia's task to operate airport operations efficiently and, of course, with a high level of safety. It is the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority that is the provider of air traffic management. When Swedavia procures air traffic control, you naturally look at the possibilities offered by the new technology. In this case, as I understand it, you can also see the conditions to streamline and improve operations at Arlanda. Using the new technology to develop the business is a greater grip on Swedavia's part. I can't really see why you shouldn't be able to do this at any other airport, but we need to have confidence that our company management and boards are doing what best for both the company and of course also the company's customers, that is, people who use airports around Sweden. We in Sweden are actually the first in the world, not with the new technology, because it exists in more places, but – which is very gratifying – having developed regulations in close collaboration between authorities, private companies and the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration, in this case. So the technology has been in place and has been able to apply it: this is up and running since April last year. In this context, it can only be mentioned that the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority has invested heavily in Sundsvall Airport in order to be able to carry out this activity. This is where the first remote-controlled air traffic management operation is located. It is therefore not Stockholm that is the starting point for the work, but the starting point is to have a good and efficient air traffic management with high safety thinking, where you can actually also see great potential to increase accessibility, not least at smaller and a little more remote airports with the possibility to operate air traffic control operations at several airports from one place. All in all, I would say that the new technology and the work carried out as a matter of urgency is a great opportunity for the smaller airports, not least in Norrland, and not a threat, although I understand the aspect of the disappearance of highly qualified jobs from Umeå, if this procurement is carried out. But how it goes, we haven't seen it yet.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-201	Mr President, I would like to I will not prolong the debate indefinitely, but will note that I share the Minister's view. I think that new technology is basically good. If we can, while maintaining safety, put pressure on costs, that is something that is good for all of us. This ultimately makes air fares and flight tickets for ordinary people cheaper. So I am not opposed to this kind of development. What I object to is that it always happens that the jobs go to Stockholm. I do not want to surprise the Minister by mentioning Västerbotten in any way; I have done so on previous occasions because it is my constituency. I know that exactly zero government jobs have been relocated to Västerbotten. This government talks a lot about all the government jobs to be relocated in the country. So far, however, I only see fewer jobs with this government's policy. The state jobs are not moved from Stockholm to Västerbotten but have a reverse migration route. It is places like Umeå, Kiruna and Östersund that are affected by this policy. That is not good, and that is why I am highlighting this. I find it hard to see what is becoming more effective. Reasonably, rents and salaries are more expensive in the Stockholm region. Then there are very small gains in locating in that direction. Instead – and this is in some way the point of this debate – we should keep the state companies and the authorities in check. If you don't, everything will be centralised in Stockholm. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. In this case, it is not justified. Airports could be controlled remotely from any place in the country. So you could just as well move the state jobs to Umeå instead of moving them to Stockholm. This is what I am opposed to. That is why I ask the Minister: can she consider helping in this and stopping the drain from the rest of the country with jobs that are unnecessarily moved to Stockholm? You could do exactly the opposite, and I would like the Minister to say: let us work together towards this development! If this is not justified, jobs should not be moved from the rest of the country to Stockholm.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-206	Mr President, I would like to As far as administrative policy is concerned, the Government has a declared ambition to ensure that there is a state presence throughout the country. It is both about the existence of state jobs in more parts of Sweden than Stockholm and about the legitimacy of the state. The state must be present in all parts of our country. So far, we have relocated two authorities. But it is also a matter of ensuring that the authorities that exist in other parts of Sweden are not defoliated on the activities they carry out, but remain with staff. We intend to continue this work. Now the interpellation is about a state-owned company, and the companies are not subject to government policy. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise that this is a work that Mrs Swedavia is doing. The task I have been given is to review all of my activities and digitalization opportunities. In connection with this, you also look at how you can develop air traffic management at Arlanda Airport, and you see that this is an opportunity to further strengthen that work. I have no intention of questioning or trying Swedavia's work in that part. Let me just remind you that under the previous government there were a number of not only government jobs but also agencies that have a very important impact on people's ability to feel security that simply disappeared. This government has stopped a number of closures of insurance fund offices, tax offices and the like around the country, which are extremely important for people to be able to benefit from the service that is a natural part of our common welfare. This obviously also applies to the parts of the country that Edward Riedl is talking about. It is very positive that we are at the forefront of technology. I see huge opportunities to streamline and create additional conditions for good accessibility throughout the country with the new technology. Of course, you could operate air traffic management in virtually any location, but if Swedavia makes the assessment that you have the greatest opportunity to reach the efficiency targets and to be able to develop air traffic control at Arlanda together with a number of other airports, I think it is a decision that Swedavia owns. This does not mean that we in the government have given up our ambitions to continue locating jobs, nor does it mean that we consider it less urgent that our state authorities continue to try to ensure that the state is present throughout the country. It is an important issue and it will continue to be an important issue.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-211	Mr President, I would like to Most of it has already been said, and I and the Minister do not disagree as to whether the new technology is good or not. New technology is great, especially if it can push costs and maintain quality. It benefits everyone in the end. Perhaps what it all lands in is that I do not share the Minister's belief that if you do nothing, the jobs will end up where it is best. I believe that there is a natural attraction to the capital of all government agencies and corporations. It rarely has to do with whether it is justified on the basis that it would be better for the business, but that is the only way it will be. It is not justified to save on building costs or wage costs, but it is exactly the opposite when you move jobs to Stockholm: you have expensive local rents, high wage costs and more turnover on the staff, which cannot possibly benefit a good, efficient and cheap business with high quality. The technology actually makes it possible to move jobs from Stockholm into the country. Then I find it difficult to see why they should not do this and use the technology in this way. What is happening now is that despite all the government's promises and the fact that people have talked widely about the relocation of government jobs from Stockholm, Västerbotten has had exactly zero jobs relocated. Instead, well-paid jobs disappear from our region. In other words, the state chooses to retire and move the jobs down to Stockholm. This is happening under this government, and that is what I am opposed to.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-215	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is important to continue the relocation policy for a number of reasons. However, there may also be specific reasons in a particular activity that make one choose to gather one's business or in other ways try to get the most efficient activity possible. In this case, I have been given the task that Swedavia makes the assessment that, in order to fully develop the operations that already exist at Arlanda Airport and further streamline by taking in air traffic management from more airports, it can take full advantage of the opportunities of the new technology. I have no reason to doubt those reasons. Then, as Mr Riedl rightly points out, there is the attraction of the capital. I believe that we as the government have a responsibility to resist and ensure that jobs do not automatically move to Stockholm. We will continue to ensure that there is a state presence in the country. When new authorities are formed or it is appropriate for other reasons, we shall ensure that authorities are present in other parts of the country. This differs, I would say again, from what the previous government did. Insurance cash registers, tax offices and other government activities were closed down in places that more than many others would have needed that presence. Now we are turning this policy around, just as we are turning over a lot of other things. We ensure a good presence of the state and good welfare throughout the country – it is also something that this government prioritises, unlike the previous one.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-219	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me whether I and the government intend to take the initiative to change the speed allowed for vehicle salvage and when a decision on this can be expected. The proposal by the Swedish Transport Agency to increase the maximum speed of a tow truck from 40 to 80 kilometres when towing another vehicle is a proposal among several other proposed amendments to the Traffic Regulation and the Roadmark Regulation. The request has been referred and the consultation bodies have expressed their views on the various proposals. At present, the various proposals are being examined together with the views of the consultation bodies within the Government Office. However, it is hoped that the work will be completed as soon as possible.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-222	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The answer is almost identical to that given by the Minister to Edward Riedl a year ago. Then the proposal would come shortly. In the Minister's reply to me, the Minister hopes that the work will be completed as soon as possible. I do not know what the words are about to mean to the Minister in the near future. But now it has been a year since the last answer, and I get a similar answer today. More measures are needed to improve today's recovery potential. Queue problems often arise, as the maximum speed during salvage is limited to 40 kilometres per hour. Other vehicles with a maximum speed of around 40 kilometres per hour must not, for road safety reasons, drive on motorways, but tow trucks must not drive faster than that on the same roads – this despite the fact that today they have equipment that allows higher speeds to be salvaged without increasing road safety problems. All our neighbouring countries allow significantly higher speeds in connection with salvage than Sweden is doing today. There is a ready-made proposal from the Swedish Transport Agency, on the basis of the report, as the Minister says in his reply, to increase the permitted speed to 80 kilometres per hour. The referral bodies – I have taken note of their views – are in favour of the proposal, but unfortunately no change has yet been made. In the event of a traffic accident or vehicle breakdown, a tow truck is often called for to transport the wrecked vehicle away. This applies to passenger cars as well as trucks and buses. If towing is carried out by attaching a vehicle to a fixed suspension device and it has two wheels that roll, towing is allowed for a maximum of 40 kilometres per hour. It is a speed that rarely corresponds to the speed of the surrounding traffic environment. That's why there's a lot of trouble. In fact, accidents also occur because towing itself leads to additional problems, traffic hazards and accessibility problems. The approximately 300 tow companies have been developing and improving their tow trucks for a long time in order to be able to deal effectively with wrecked vehicles. One example is the tow trucks that can tow two vehicles at the same time, which facilitates the accessibility of the rest of the traffic. The better and safer tow trucks now in use are also the reason why the Swedish Transport Agency proposes a speed higher than 40 kilometres per hour. Much has happened in the development of these cars. I've reviewed the Swedish Transport Agency's proposal. It was already in the spring of 2013 that a proposal for changes to the Traffic Regulation was presented. The Swedish Transport Agency recommended 80 kilometres an hour. Technology development has made driving at a higher speed much safer today. Therefore, the Swedish Transport Agency proposes that the speed be limited in the same way as for cars that drive with a braked trailer – that is, 80 kilometres. Both the Rikspolisstyrelsen and the Swedish Åkeriföretag have recommended the proposed increase in speed. A total of 85 referrals have been received. None of the 85 were opposed to the proposal to raise the limit to 80 kilometers per hour, except for one who advocated 60 kilometers per hour. Since then, 2013, the issue has been prepared in the Government Office, that is, for almost four years. Only last year my Moderate colleague, Edward Riedl, received about the same answer as I received today. I wonder: why is this change in traffic regulation being dragged into the long bench? What does the Minister think is controversial about the change?
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-230	Mr President, I would like to I can only agree with Lotta Finstorp that the change is important and very welcome. As highlighted in the discussion here, it is a question of accessibility and accessibility, but it is also a question of road safety. It is, of course, essential to remove vehicles and clean the road, as soon as possible after an accident, in order for traffic to flow again as soon as possible and to reduce the risk of collisions and collisions. I can only regret that the matter has not been settled. It's taken too long. I hope that I will be able to deliver a message shortly and that the issue will no longer be put on a long leeway. There is no political disagreement. There are, as far as I understand, no technical complications either. I can only regret that this has not already been done.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-232	Mr President, I would like to It is good to hear that there are no politically controversial things on this issue. There shouldn't be. We will always have to tow cars when there are vehicle failures or accidents. I've been looking at what it looks like in other countries. The United Kingdom, Denmark, Slovenia, Germany and Norway are just a few examples where today we have a higher permitted speed than we have in Sweden. And 84 out of 85 referrals say this is okay. The pre-amendments to the Traffic Regulation are not very difficult to bring about. That is why it is very unfortunate, I think, that it has been so long. Is there anything missing from the Minister about the change in the regulation? Is that why the decision is delayed? Could it be something like that? Is there a need to supplement? It would be good to know today. I know that there are many people listening to the debate who are particularly involved in this matter. For vehicle salvage, a truck with a cargo compartment that holds a passenger car and with a fixed suspension device is often used so that at least one of the wheelsets of a towed vehicle can roll on the road. It is in the case of vehicles that are towed by the fixed suspension device for towing and towing damaged vehicles so that one of the wheelset of the damaged vehicle rolls on the road that the Traffic Regulation needs to be amended. Today it says that it can only be 40 kilometres per hour. There are various limitations to the proposal drawn up by the Swedish Transport Agency, or certain remarks. For example, the speed limit should be subject to the condition that the mass of the vehicle train does not exceed the total mass of the towing vehicle. With this limitation, the Swedish Transport Agency considers that the proposal will not lead to any deterioration in road safety. However, that is the most important thing: that you do not get out of the ashes in the fire in any way when it comes to road safety. The comments on the Swedish Transport Agency's proposal show that today's cars have brakes that enable them to brake the vehicle's total weight. That's one thing, too. You can look back in time. Of course, it would not have been possible to increase the speed to 80 kilometres per hour by then. Today, however, both ordinary cars and tow vehicles are designed to run at a higher speed. There are brakes, suspensions and other things that make you have no problems driving at 80 kilometres an hour today. Does the Minister miss anything in the consultation or documentation? I'd be very grateful to find out.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-239	Mr President, I would like to No, in this particular case it's probably a much simpler explanation. It is quite simply the case that a number of other and a little bigger and more difficult issues have taken precedence and that this has simply not been prioritised in the way that should have happened. I can only regret once again that it has been delayed. I will ensure that the changes are in place as soon as possible so that this important and very long-awaited change can come about.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-240	Mr President, I would like to The only question left then is when, as soon as possible, there is no time but as soon as possible. When can we expect it to be in place?
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-241	Mr President, I would like to Once the matter is settled in the Government Office, there will also be a government decision on changes to regulations. My hope is that this will happen in the near future.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-242	Mr President, I would like to Mr Jomshof has asked me what reasons were behind my actions in Iran. He also asks whether it is my position that this action was in line with the government's feminist approach. As a woman and Minister of a feminist government, I take very seriously the difficult situation of women's human rights in Iran. The government has been clear in its view on these issues, and we are constantly addressing this in our contacts with Iranian representatives. Of course, I raised issues of human rights and the position of women in society during all my meetings. According to Iranian law, women have to cover their hair in Iran. I myself have made it clear that I personally do not like wearing a shawl, but that I naturally follow the laws of the host country during an official visit. Travelling to Iran and breaking this law would in principle make the work of the visit impossible and create a diplomatic conflict that would by no means help Iran's women in their fight for equality. The visit to Iran produced concrete results in many areas. I had productive meetings with seven Iranian ministers and a vice president and signed five bilateral memoranda of understanding. In connection with the trip, Swedish companies signed contracts in Iran for over SEK 3 billion, which benefits the Swedish economy and the labour market. The fact that I did this as a female minister, in an official delegation with predominantly female members, is in itself a clear indication of the importance that Sweden attaches to gender equality. One of the memoranda of understanding that I signed in Iran concerned cooperation and exchanges on issues of increasing women's participation in working life and in society. The Prime Minister took part in a round table on the same subject, together with Iran's Vice-President in charge of women's affairs. It is a good thing that, despite great differences of view on women's human rights, we can have such an exchange with Iran. Of course, a prerequisite for such an exchange is that we can meet. The government will continue to pursue a principled policy of engagement, based on our feminist values, towards countries such as Iran. In this way, we can contribute to the positive development of women's enjoyment of their human rights, in Iran and in other parts of the world.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-249	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Commerce! I would like to remind you that the government on its website writes that Sweden has the world's first feminist government. It writes, among other things, that a feminist government ensures that the gender perspective is included in the policy design on a broad front, both in national and international work. It is also written that the government pursues a feminist foreign policy and that gender equality is a fundamental objective of Swedish foreign policy. I believe, Mr President, that these statements are binding. When the women representatives of the Swedish government and business delegation, led by the Minister for Trade, chose to wear a veil and bow to the will of the Islamic Patriarchate regarding women's dress during their visit to Iran, many rightly asked questions about this behaviour. I believe that action sends out very strange signals, not least to all the women in Iran who are forced to live under Islamic oppression. I also believe that at the same time it benefits and plays in the hands of the Iranian regime. Mr President, I would like to As far as human rights are concerned, Iran is one of the world's absolutely worst and worst countries in this area. The latest report from Human Rights Watch reveals that the death penalty is imposed for crimes such as insulting the prophet or for so - called adultery. It also emerges that children can be sentenced to the death penalty and that the country's courts approve confessions forced under torture. It appears that dissidents, both religious and political, are being monitored, persecuted, harassed and imprisoned. This applies not least to journalists and others who, among other things, are fighting for the right to have an opinion and the right to express it. It is therefore this country that, among others, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven and the Trade Minister recently visited. It is therefore this country that the Prime Minister sees as a key player with a stabilising role in the region. Whatever the Minister for Trade says, the Swedish Government is not credible in this matter. I would like to remind you that both Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lövin recently criticised US President Donald Trump for his view of women. On the other hand, criticism of Iran has been more or less absent. They choose to fight against democracies and crawl for dictatorships, as a leader writer of one of Sweden's major morning newspapers recently put it. I agree with that analysis. Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Commerce says there's a law to wear a veil in Iran. There's a lot of law in Iran. For example, it is illegal to be gay. The question I ask myself is whether the Minister for Trade and the other Swedish delegation chose to comply with that law. Could it be that it was carefully checked whether the Swedes who were going to Iran were homosexuals or not? After all, it is illegal in Iran. The Minister for Trade seriously believes that she is keen to comply with Islamist laws in Iran. I would like an answer to that question. I would like to ask the question again: is it really the view of the Minister for Trade that what I, and many with me, consider to be a creeping thing for the Islamists in Iran is in line with the so-called feminist orientation of the government?
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-257	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the government is aware of the human rights violations that occur in Iran. It is also something that we raised during all our visits. I personally made eight visits and raised these questions during all the visits. The government was also clear and consistent in lifting up the difficult situation for women and the importance of their enjoying human rights. Women's rights are human rights. It is also something that I said fully at all my meetings. In contrast to the Swedish debate, it is interesting to also study the reactions in Iran and among Iranians in other parts of the world. It has been noted that the Iranian side was almost exclusively represented by men, while the Swedish delegation consisted of a majority of women. An award-winning human rights activist, Sussan Tahmasebi, welcomed the large number of women in the Swedish delegation, and she felt that it sends a powerful signal to Iran. This is what she says to The Guardian: Attention to this is important, because women should also have been present at the meeting with the Iranian President and his delegation. If the Swedish women had not gone to Tehran, the meeting would have taken place without them with only men present. It is important that Iran has relations with Sweden; a country with a feminist foreign policy. So my participation, like the other women in the delegation, sent a clear message in itself about Sweden's position in this area. During the visit, a reception was arranged at the Swedish ambassador's residence where women of course did not have to cover their hair. The reception has attracted strong criticism from conservative circles in Iran, not least against the Iranian representatives who attended the reception. The Swedish feminist policy with a predominantly female delegation and a female ambassador who arranges a reception where women do not cover their hair was thus noted in Iran. No one should have interpreted the visit as a legitimisation of Iranian policy in this area.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-263	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Trade says that the situation of women was raised during the visit to Iran. I'm sure you did, and it's a good thing you did. I mean, it's still not credible. I stand by it. All the women in the Swedish delegation chose to bow to the Iranian regime by wearing a veil and by keeping their distance to the Iranian Islamists. It was nothing but a great betrayal of the women's movement in Iran. It is not worthy of a feminist government to behave that way. It can hardly be an expression of a feminist foreign policy. I am absolutely convinced that the visit sent out a series of signals, but I do not believe that it sent out the signals expressed by the Minister for Trade here. We should remember that in the Islamic dictatorship of Iran, women suffer the most. Legislation is based on men. Examples of this are that women's testimony is less worth than men's. Women do not have the same rights to their children as men. For example, girls can be married at the age of thirteen, and sex with nine - year - old girls is permitted. Mr President, I would like to Women are still stoned to death for so - called adultery. It takes the man's approval to get a passport. It takes the man's approval to leave the country. There are strict rules for which places women may visit. Not least, there are strict rules for how women should dress. This applies not least to the obligation to wear a veil. When the Swedish delegation follows these rules, it is clear that it is playing in the hands of the Iranian regime. It's sending out strange signals. Does the Minister of Trade really not understand that this action has made her an obedient tool for the Iranian regime? Does the Minister of Commerce not understand that action is a betrayal of all women who are forced to live under that kind of oppression? Does the Minister of Commerce not understand that the action is a betrayal of the women's movement in Iran?
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-269	Mr President, I would like to No girl or woman should be forced to dress in a way that she does not want. This should be self-evident in Sweden as well as in other countries. I have been clear in my rejection of the Iranian compulsion to wear a shawl, and I am equally clear with people in Sweden who are trying to dictate how women should dress and behave. For me, it was a balance to go to Iran and wear a shawl, which is what the law prescribes in the country. This law is special to Iran in particular – unlike other countries in the region. I would prefer not to cover my hair and to wear my regular clothes, but I felt that the benefits of the visit to Iran were under consideration. The government's feminist foreign policy aims to increase women's and girls' opportunities to enjoy human rights fully. Such changes require dialogue, even with representatives of countries that are far from us in terms of gender equality. Travelling to Iran and breaking this law, or completely avoiding visiting Iran, would make such a dialogue impossible. Abstention would also mean that only men could visit or work in Iran, which is out of the question for a feminist government. During my two days in Tehran, I had separate meetings with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Trade, the Minister for IT, the Minister for Energy, the Minister for Oil, the Minister for Transport, the Minister for Research and the Vice-President for Environment. A number of agreements between Swedish and Iranian companies with a potential value of just over SEK 3 billion were signed in connection with the visit. During my visit, I signed five Memorandums of Understanding in the fields of transport, innovation, research, ICT and women's influence. The Memorandum of Understanding on Women's Influence affects women's labour force participation and entrepreneurship, among other things, and will be followed up by the Swedish Institute. This gives us a further opportunity to move forward in the field of gender equality. The government will continue to prioritise such concrete results over symbolic acts. That is how we can help bring about change. This view is shared by many women both within Iran and in Sweden. In Today's industry, the entrepreneur and independent debater Maria Masoomi Masoomi – herself fertile from Iran. She is deeply critical of the debate, and she believes that it is distressing to reduce this journey to the matter of the veil's being or not being. She writes: To even think of suggesting that these women should have stayed at home in Sweden or at the Swedish Embassy instead of spending time with Iranians is not only absurd and stupid, but also disrespectful – not only to Iran and the Iranian people, but also to Sweden and the women's family. It's fishing in cloudy water. And that is exactly what you are doing, Richard Jomshof, fishing in cloudy water—you who otherwise never take your tone when it comes to women's rights. However, I am not surprised.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-277	Mr President, I would like to It's not about the veil's product or not being. It's about something deeper and more important than that. It's about whether to crawl for an Islamic dictatorship or not. I do not think that we should comply with the laws of a country like Iran. For me, it's simple. I think you should look the other way around. You can invite them to Sweden and show them how it works here instead of going down and becoming their obedient tools. I can well imagine that this means that Sweden will make money. But the question is, is that all? I know that the Social Democrats have a long tradition of dealing with dictatorships. We can go back to the 1930s when they crawled for the Nazis and sold iron ore and ball bearings and held the German armed forces under their arms. But the question is whether it's relevant, if that's how you should behave. I don't think so. I will conclude by drawing attention to an open letter. I have this, and the Secretary of Commerce can take part of it if she wants. It was presented on Facebook a few days ago. The open letter is signed by a wide range of women, most of whom have roots in Iran. The letter is addressed to all women in the Swedish delegation. Mr President, I would like to In short, they write in this open letter that they are very critical of action. They call it shameful, because with their actions the delegation legitimises the Islamic dictatorship in Iran and shamefully because its actions counteract the Iranian women's struggle for freedom. I agree that it is shameful.
i-9d3b986136ea16d8-283	Mr President, I would like to I think that the representative of the Swedish Democrats should be a little careful when he speaks about the Nazi's existence or not being in contact with the parties. I am Minister of Trade in the Swedish Government, and you have chosen to criticize me for how I do my job, Richard Jomshof. On my trip to Iran, by law, I was forced to cover my hair. This law is special to Iran and does not exist in other countries in the region. The plight of women in Iran is well known as is my view of oppressive laws. But I would not have been able to lead the Swedish trade delegation, meet seven ministers and a vice president, conclude five agreements and contribute to Swedish companies signing contracts for over SEK 3 billion without travelling to Iran. Nor could I have raised questions about women's rights or put forward the Swedish view on human rights and trade union rights during all the ministerial meetings, as I obviously did. Just as we expect foreign politicians to comply with Swedish law when they are in Sweden, I will not violate the law in any of the countries I visit, regardless of my personal opinion of the law. If I had done what you and some others think, I would have had to stay home instead of carrying out my mission — just because I happen to be a woman. That, Richard Jomshof, you can forget!
