i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-21	Madam President, I would like Katarina Brännström has asked me whether I intend to take any steps to ensure that those who have previously taken part in the employment phase have a meaningful job and come closer to a job. Every human being is a resource, and anyone who can work should work. A job is an opportunity for self-sufficiency, belonging, community and the power to shape one's life and future. It is the government's top priority that more people should get to work. The development in the Swedish economy is strong and the demand for labour is good. Since the government took office, the number of employed persons has increased by 150 000, while unemployment is falling, not least among young people whose unemployment is the lowest in 13 years. While demand for labour is strong, unemployment is high in some groups, especially among adults with short education and persons who have been in Sweden for a short time. The Government's ambition with the reform of the Job and Development Guarantee as well as the abolition of Phase 3 and its employment places is that all participants can be offered active measures to get closer to the labour market based on their individual needs. Persons who have been unemployed for a long period of time should not be kept in an operation that does not lead to a job. With the government's changed labour market policy and a less detailed regulatory framework, the long-term unemployed should be able to access the entire toolkit of the Public Employment Service, based on their individual needs. The opportunity to study has been strengthened, additional services have been introduced and strengthened and the possibility of taking part in work training has been expanded. The Public Employment Service can now make an individual assessment and decide on a meaningful contribution or activity for each individual. Making a quality decision about an effort or activity can take longer but is likely to be better in the long run for the individual. The most important thing is that the right person gets the right input at the right time. Overall, government policy means that the long-term unemployed can be offered active labour market policies and opportunities to study within the regular education system. Both opportunities are based on the individual's own needs and strengthen their ability to get a job or start studies.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-28	Madam President, I would like I should like to thank the Minister for his reply, although I may think that it was more general than a correct answer to my question, which was as follows: Is the Minister going to take any steps to ensure that the people who have previously participated in the employment phase have meaningful employment and come closer to work? Since a year ago, the government strangled inflows to phase 3, two thirds have disappeared from the measure. Nearly 40,000 were there in the first place, and now there are about 9 700 left. It is one year ahead of its decommissioning plan. Barely a year after the start of decommissioning, it turned out that the government's promise, which was then given of meaningful measures for jobs, has not really been fulfilled. Of the people in phase 3, 14 000 have been registered with the Employment Service for measures. Of these, 3 000 have no registered activity, and what they do cannot be answered by Arbetsförmedlingen. They should not be a priority group for training providers, for example, who have been given the new task of integrating all new arrivals. The additional services that came into being as a substitute are more than 2 000 in the whole country, so there has not been a real effort for these people either. It is also sad that many social organisations that could offer jobs to these people – dog kindergarten, gardening, flea market, cafes and a lot of interesting and good jobs – have now had to lay off their staff, which has many consequences. I don't think anyone knows what happened to the 30,000 who left phase three. I wonder if the minister knows. What is likely to happen is that they are farthest from the labour market and are even further away from jobs and meaningful lives. A quarter of those who have left have some form of support employment. Well, that's good in itself, but it's just a small group. Many of them have major problems, such as disability. Many are over 55 years old and with limited work capacity. Some are born abroad. 4 000 are placed in the matching and follow-up group, which means that they have a meeting with an administrator only every two or three months. The question remains: what in the situation of the long-term unemployed has the government improved by phasing out phase 3? The answer is probably that many have had to go home to pure passive unemployment. I myself have spoken to several phase 3 organizers who testify to sad human fates. People's security has broken, and they feel very bad. Ylva Johansson actually promised that everyone would have a place to go, an action or work practice. But what happened? I think the answer I have received about this is rather fuzzy. It has been promised intensely to combat long-term unemployment. In June, the Minister in this House said that action would come back, but it feels like very little has happened. It would be good to have a more concrete answer to what has actually been thought for these people, as it was so important to get out of phase 3, which I know was a big and strong election promise from the Social Democrats. It is almost cynical that many of them have been left to their fate. They belong to the weak groups in the unemployment line.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-37	Madam President, I would like I'm going to correct myself. Katarina Brännström asks whether I intend to take any steps to ensure that those who have previously participated in the employment phase have a meaningful employment and get closer to a job. The answer to the question is, of course, yes. That is the focus of the government's work. Let's see what phase 3 was. During Phase 1 and Phase 2, there were some limited labour market policy measures to which the Public Employment Service could offer or assign persons. However, education was none of these, but there were some others. When it came to phase 3, the rule was that the Employment Service was prevented from using the labour market policy tools available in phases 1 and 2. I think it is crazy to think that for those people who have been unemployed the longest, we should limit the efforts that can be used. I think you have to do exactly the opposite. For those who have been unemployed for the longest time, this is probably because they find it harder than others to get a job. My experience is that you must meet individually according to the specific conditions and needs of each individual. That is why the Public Employment Service now has access to the entire toolbox without limitation, and some tools are especially available to those who are furthest from the labour market and have been unemployed for a long time. It is reasonable that we extend the toolbox and invest in a little more generous efforts for those who are farthest from the labour market, and that is what we are doing now. We also see an increase in work training and subsidised employment. Let me explain to Katarina Brännström that just because you do not have any registered activity in Arbetsförmedlingen's database does not mean that you do not have any activity. This means that the activity is reported in the individual's action plan. Today, there is no way in Arbetsförmedlingen's statistical follow-up to see what someone is doing that does not have one of the categorized efforts. It is of course a shortcoming that this is the case, but what activities you participate in are reported in the action plan and in each individual's activity reporting. It is quite clear that we will have to do even more for this group. The labour market is now doing well; we have strong economic growth and strong growth of new jobs. This means that those close to the labour market get jobs. Among those who have a decent education or have not been unemployed for a long time, unemployment is falling rapidly. However, considerable difficulties remain for those groups that are far from the labour market. This is particularly true of those with short training. That is why it is important that we get more people into education, and here I have to say self-critically that we have not succeeded well enough. There are far too few long-term unemployed who are moving on to regular education even though we know that for many it would be a sensible effort. Here the government will come up with more efforts to achieve this.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-43	Madam President, I would like Ylva Johansson knows that there have been many good phase 3 investments and many good organizers. But it became a symbolic issue in the elections, and the fact that people get caught is unfortunate. There is also some wishful thinking about the resources of the Employment Service. They are not enough, and this group is also not a priority at Arbetsförmedlingen. Of the 85,000 jobs promised by the government, there have been no more than 4,000. It is clear that not many of those with certain difficulties and who are far from the labour market are in that group. You hide behind a boom, but unfortunately there is never a boom for these people. They always end up last in line when it comes to both jobs and efforts. The unfortunate thing is that Phase 1 and Phase 2 failed to get these people into jobs or action at all. They had several years, but they did very little. Therefore, many of them were happy once they entered phase 3 and gained meaningful employment. I've met a lot of people who thought they had a new life. What Ylva Johansson says about a toolbox and Arbetsförmedlingen resources should we bring a pinch of salt. It is clear that there are resources and that the long-term unemployed should be helped by the Employment Service. However, I think that a government that runs a reform involving 40 000 people should be more interested in finding out what has happened to them. How'd it go? Did they end up in line last time? Are they in education? Some have, of course, got jobs with support measures, as statistics show, and that's great. But what has happened to all the others? Are they increasing mental diagnoses now? When you can change the life and everyday life of a large group of people with politics and almost a single stroke of money, there should be more to say about how they have gone. These cannot be just symbolic questions in the elections. These are actually real people we're talking about, and many of them feel bad. As far as activities are concerned, we know that Arbetsförmedlingen's resources are not sufficient. It fails in many respects to get people into jobs and action. That is why it is even more unfortunate that we are engaged in wishful thinking with regard to this group. Many of them had good efforts, and social enterprises, organisations, churches, associations and others are now unhappy that the promise made by the Minister that they would continue to have work training and other things have not been fulfilled. Now they're being phased out. The civilian efforts of this type of company and organisation are an important resource in the whole of society, and I think we should be careful and not screw it up. Unfortunately, however, the government has not taken care of it. The government should not only be self-critical of the fact that it has not managed to get so many long-term unemployed in education. Self-criticism should also apply to how these organisers have been treated, for many of them were very serious.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-55	Madam President, I would like I may have misunderstood Katarina Brännström, but it sounded like she does not think it is important to have a policy that creates many new jobs because it can still be difficult for those who are far from the labour market to get these jobs. I have the opposite view. The fundamental thing for combating unemployment is to pursue an economic policy that makes us have strong economic growth, investment, growing companies, more jobs and more employers who want to hire. There is no labour market policy in the world that can compensate for not having a policy that makes us have a Sweden that is growing and an employer who wants to hire. The role of labour market policy is to equip people to take on the job vacancies, and of course some people need more action than others. Katarina Brännström talked about changing the reality of a pen stroke. In fact, that was what the old government did when it decided in a pen stroke that if you had been unemployed long enough to end up in phase 3 you would be placed there and not have access to any other in satser that could lead to work. I think that was completely unreasonable. For us, the long-term unemployed and other people who find it difficult to gain a foothold in the labour market are a priority group. They shall have access to the measures which may lead to employment. I share Katarina Brännström's view on one thing: Labour-integrated social enterprises and civil society are inalienable parts of the construction of society. They are needed and can and should take greater responsibility than they do today. We have also opened this up in the regulatory framework. It is, of course, up to Arbetsförmedlingen which you hire when it comes to work training, but it is an action that is increasing. Madam President, I would like Katarina Brännström says that AF's problem is that you have limited resources. I do not share that view. AF has problems, but it's not a resource shortage.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-62	Madam President, I would like It is possible that Arbetsförmedlingen has the resources you need, but you do not use the resources as intended. There is also great inertia in the system, as there is much evidence. It is good that there are new jobs and that Sweden is doing well. I'm really happy about that. We're in a boom. Sweden is growing, and Sweden's economy is doing well. Then it should be easy to get more jobs, more training places, more internships and other things that would benefit this group. But your job proposals have failed. Of the 85 000, there have been 4,000. That's not much to brag about. The fact that there is a boom and demand does very little for this group, so this is where politics must come in. Both inside and outside the regular labour market, perhaps within social organisations, many of them should be able to find places. Many may not be fully employable – let us not hymn with it – but they still need to have meaningful employment and be able to count on those who go to a job every day. It's important. I thank you for the debate and hope that we do not have to have more debates on this group. I hope that these people will get the support they are entitled to and that most of them will get into the warmth that it means to be somewhere in the day and have a meaningful job.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-68	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank you for the debate. I can agree with the last wish, that all people should have a job to go to. Let me add that, for me, an employment place without pay is not a job. A job requires that you receive a salary for your job. That is the government's priority.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-70	Madam President, I would like Katarina Brännström has asked me if I find reason to take action in response to new identified shortcomings in the Swedish Public Employment Service regarding the procurement of training programmes. Contracts are affected by the changing labour market and the rapid emergence of new and specific needs of employers. The Authority needs to continuously analyse new labour market needs while previous contracts must expire before new procurements are launched. This, combined with the fact that many contracts are subject to an appeal and that the length of proceedings at a judicial instance is sometimes long, has meant that there have been delays between certain contracts. The Employment Service is aware of the problem and is working hard to solve it. The Employment Service shall ensure that there is labour market training or other measures that equip people so that they can establish themselves in the labour market. The employment agency does this through procurement, among other things. It is a fundamental requirement for an authority to manage its procurement in an efficient and correct manner. The Authority shall decide for itself how and what to act. It is Arbetsförmedlingen that has expert knowledge and is able to decide which actions and programmes are needed and when they are needed. The Government therefore assumes that the Swedish Public Employment Service has made such assessments. In addition to procured training programmes, the Government has improved the possibilities for the Public Employment Service, together with municipal adult education, to provide relevant education that meets the needs of the labour market. The Government has set up the Procurement Authority, which is tasked with developing and supporting procurement by contracting authorities. Arbetsförmedlingen has the opportunity to get help from the Procurement Authority in its efforts to improve its procurement. The Ministry is following the issue of labour market training procurement, and the government currently sees no need to take action.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-76	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your answer. However, I have to ask myself whether the Minister has not understood how serious the situation is or whether she is trying to hide how bad things are actually in the Public Employment Service. The Minister does not touch on any of the problems of unsuccessful procurements that I asked about, where the Public Employment Service has received judgments against it because of shortcomings, low quality or under appeal. We are talking about tens of thousands of training opportunities that have been put to sleep. Sometimes it's been a whole year before they get started. Most recently there were vehicle mechanics and professional drivers, for whom there was a great shortage and demand, who were in the Administrative Court of Appeal, where the Employment Service lost. This also applies to professional Swedish and work training places, which have been awarded to the Administrative Court, where the Public Employment Service received a judgment because of shortcomings in the procurement process. A tender worth nearly half a billion for professional Swedish was decided by lot. It doesn't feel very serious. This has been severely criticised in the industry. Criticism is not new, it is constantly ongoing. It is poor planning and incorrect procurement that has forced the Employment Service to postpone labour market training for a great many people. The companies that would have provided training are forced to resign their employees because they have no duties. This happened both last autumn and last spring. They screw up educations that should be the core business of the Public Employment Service. Even the person responsible at Arbetsförmedlingen admits that the long-term priority and planning have failed. The Public Employment Service has a great responsibility for integration during the start-up phase. The educational needs are much greater than both Arbetsförmedlingen and the government acknowledge. A year ago, Mikael Sjöberg wrote on DN's debate: There are also calls for more resources, but no solution is presented. Nothing has really happened since then. The truth is that it is a major failure for the Employment Service. Is the Minister aware of this? The match is already pretty bad today. Many have a high level of education but have jobs where the requirements are much simpler. This is particularly true in smaller municipalities. The validation of education takes far too long, and integration is too slow. It is sad that Arbetsförmedlingen gets the bottom line in yet another measurement of confidence. I don't know how many such bottom snaps the minister can accept before she thinks she should take any action against the Arbetsförmedlingen or even criticise Arbetsförmedlingen. Only one in five have confidence in the Employment Service, and most employers turn to other actors when they need labour. 73% of LO members have low confidence in Arbetsförmedlingen – it's actually quite sad. Cecilia Fahlberg, the government's investigator, is also critical. She notes that neither job seekers nor employers are attracted by Arbetsförmedlingen. The Minister said that there are certain interruptions to certain agreements. It is a tremendous beautification of a great failure. It is about people who could have come to education and even to work if they had received the education. In his reply, the Minister mentioned the Procurement Authority. I would like to know: What does it do, and has Arbetsförmedlingen taken any help from it? It does not feel that way, because there is far too much that has gone wrong in terms of procurement.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-89	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is very serious when procurement efforts, such as training programmes, are not in place when they are needed. It is very serious, and it is a difficult setback in all of the work for matching to work, for employers to get skilled staff and for the unemployed to get jobs. Katarina Brännström and I have had many interpellation debates and other debates in this House. Katarina Brännström is well aware that I have not kept away from criticism of Arbetsförmedlingen in many respects. It's very serious when there's such a glitch in the procurements, that's it. Katarina Brännström's question, however, is what to do about the procurements. The government cannot go in and make procurements for an authority. It is essential that the authority itself can manage its procurements in a legally secure, accurate and efficient manner. In order to help the authorities to do this, the government has taken a rather strong step, namely to set up a procurement authority, precisely to have expert knowledge on issues where authorities – more agencies than the Employment Service – may need help in managing this in order to avoid this kind of glitch. This measure has already been taken, and I assume that Arbetsförmedlingen uses the competence of the Procurement Authority.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-93	Madam President, I would like Developments are not going in the right direction – we can agree on that. It takes way too long for newcomers to get to work. One of the first measures, mentioned by Ylva Johansson, is that education is required. If the threshold is constantly raised and time passes, these people will not enter the labour market. It's serious. It was good that the Minister stressed this in this House now. The written answer to me did not really breathe this. Ylva Johansson promised big and wide a few years ago that all new arrivals would come to work or study within two years. It has not succeeded, if you say so. It has turned out that it takes nine is for half of a litter newcomers to get into work, and it is particularly difficult for women. If we then have an employment service that has difficulty in managing its core tasks, neither politics nor these people will be satisfied – that is obvious. We cannot have an employment service that fails on a point-by-point basis. It's scary that we've let it slide for so long. Me and the Moderates believe that the Arbetsförmedlingen has played its part. This shows one example after another. Why? Well, integration does not work, the labour market is becoming increasingly two-way and matching fails. Other well-functioning players should be brought in, who are already able to get jobs, and given them a greater role in this. Municipalities can also do more than Arbetsförmedlingen to help people in jobs. Few people are satisfied with what the Public Employment Service is doing, more than possibly the government and at some point also the Minister. The procurement authority has apparently come into being to help Arbetsförmedlingen. That's very good. I don't have any experience of what they've done or if the Arbetsförmedlingen has taken help from them. However, there are far too many of these procurements that have failed, and that is serious. We are in complete agreement on this. What is also serious is confidence in Arbetsförmedlingen. It is one of the government's biggest authorities who kneel on their knees when it comes to trust. Sometimes it depends on an individual official. As for any of these contracts, I was told that there was a person in charge, and that person stopped. Then no one else could fill with knowledge. That is why this procurement broke down. You sometimes wonder how the organisation works within Arbetsförmedlingen. It is good that it has finally come to an investigation that will give answers to the Minister, so that you get more knowledge of how bad it is. Although we are in a boom now, we have far too many people who do not get into the labour market. There are far too many people who have to wait far too long to get the education that they should actually have in order to get a job in the Swedish labour market. In this respect, I think that the government should take strong action, and this should also be done with regard to the Public Employment Service. We can't continue to be this bad.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-105	Madam President, I would like Let me say that Arbetsförmedlingen works with other actors and will also do so. That's the point, and you do. It is done in a more organized and legally secure way than it was at the time when it was done with coaches and pilots who had significant quality problems. There were also pure irregularities in this type of activity. Today, work is being done in a more organised and better way with complementary actors. That's good, and you should keep doing that. We also have an investigation that looks at Arbetsförmedlingen's collaboration with other actors. I have not been given any indication of anything other than that it is considered a good way of working. Arbetsförmedlingen shall cooperate with the municipalities. It is a new commitment since we took office, that is to open up cooperation with the municipalities. It is now happening in more and more places in an increasingly better way. We have recently given a new mandate that it should be done not only in the case of young people but also in the case of new arrivals and with special support from the special delegation that is working to facilitate this cooperation. The assessment today is that in approximately 70% of municipalities there will be co-location between the Employment Service and municipal activities to facilitate unemployed young people. I think that's good. It is this type of cooperation that is needed. In the case of appeals against contracts, for example concerning professional drivers, for whom we have a great lack, there was a judgment in the Administrative Court of Appeal on 27 January that a contract for professional drivers who drive buses had to be renewed. It is, of course, extremely unfortunate and serious with the setbacks that occur when you end up in such a situation. Then it is also important that the Public Employment Service, together with the industry and together with municipalities, is now trying to find pragmatic ways of dealing with this, so that we do not have an excessive gap that affects the employers who want to employ. Katarina Brännström also addresses the issue of the organisation of the Public Employment Service and how well the Public Employment Service operates internally. That's a legitimate question. I can assure Katarina Brännström that I have a great focus on improving the internal work and internal organisation of Arbetsförmedlingen. Statskontoret has recently carried out an independent evaluation, or study, of the Internal Life of the Public Employment Service – the way in which it organises its own work. Statskontoret's assessment is that the agency is moving in the right direction but that it is moving slowly and that there are many parts where you would need to get even faster. Undoubtedly, however, the direction is the right one. I can assure Katarina Brännström that this remains an important issue for me to follow and, if necessary, act in.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-112	Madam President, I would like I think it is good that Ylva Johansson in this House nevertheless acknowledges that there is much that needs to be improved and that the government probably has rather harsh criticism internally and in its relations with the Public Employment Service. My criticism here today is based a little on the fact that I do not think that the Council of State's response correctly describes what the Minister is now saying in this House, that is to say that it is trying to find many solutions and that it has a great focus on improving. This is actually hidden in the answer, and I find that sad. I believe that the Public Employment Service and everyone else would be happy if we were actually open and honest and said that we can see that these shortcomings exist and that this must be addressed and that we should not sweep this under the carpet and pretend that these shortcomings do not exist. It is clear that Arbetsförmedlingen has a huge task. We can agree on that. Sometimes it may be too big for the Public Employment Service to be effective. We have looked at the solutions and said that there should be more actors doing certain things instead of the Public Employment Service. I expect Ylva Johansson to take strong action if necessary, because I cannot imagine that there can be more failures without a clear statement from the government. Thank you for this debate. However, unlike the second debate, I cannot promise that we will not debate this again. Unfortunately, I am afraid that I will feel that I have to raise more shortcomings and other things in interpellation with the Minister.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-117	Madam President, I would like I thank Katarina Brännström for the debate. I look forward to us continuing to debate this issue. Unfortunately, I also believe that we will encounter further problems in such a large authority with such a large area of responsibility as we have occasion to debate. But I can promise Katarina Brännström that I will not sweep any problems under the carpet.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-118	Madam President, I would like Christian Barenfeld has asked me what measures I intend to take to make it easier for people born abroad with a low level of education to get into work. The government has taken and intends to take further measures to increase the opportunities for newcomers to enter the labour market. For example, the government has introduced modern preparedness jobs in the state authorities, which means that the long-term unemployed and newcomers can be employed in the authorities in order to carry out simpler tasks. The government has also broadened the Employment Service's toolbox by, among other things, opening up the additional services to new arrivals and increasing the subsidy in new start jobs for new arrivals. The Government considers that both the element of municipal adult education during the start-up period and the transitions from the start-up assignment to regular education need to increase significantly. A large part of the participants need regular training efforts to have an opportunity to establish themselves on the Swedish labour market. Others need some additional training in order to get a job. The Swedish Public Employment Service's regulation letter for 2017 now includes a goal of enrolment without full upper secondary education, especially enrolled in the start-up assignment, to a greater extent start regular studies. The studies can be carried out both within the framework of a labour market policy programme and in an establishment plan outside them. The Government has, among other things, invested in vocational adult and apprenticeship studies aimed, among other things, at reaching those groups that lack or need to supplement upper secondary education. A good establishment requires close cooperation between municipalities and the Employment Service at local level, including municipal adult education in Swedish for immigrants, adult education and vocational qualifications. Many of those who applied for asylum in Sweden in 2015 were young people entering the Swedish school system during the later part of the comprehensive school or upper secondary school age. The Government believes that all young people should start and complete upper secondary education in order to increase opportunities to establish themselves in the labour market. The Government intends to give the Delegation for Youth to work an expanded mandate to promote collaboration between relevant actors that are important for newcomers, preferably newly arrived young people, to establish themselves in the workplace. The Government has also commissioned Arbetsförmedlingen to present an action plan for how the agency intends to increase the proportion of foreign-born women working or studying. The aim is to reduce unemployment and increase employment for this group. The Agency must pay particular attention to women with a short or no educational background and with limited experience of salary work in Sweden. The assignment shall be presented by 1 April 2017.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-126	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ylva Johansson, for the answer to my interpellation! It is written on the basis that Sweden faces major challenges with integration and that we have major problems that have arisen because we have far too many who have not entered Swedish society. According to Statistics Sweden, it now takes about nine years for half of the new arrivals to get a job. We have heard the Minister for Labour say on many occasions that she will fix the jobs and that she will fix the integration and that people will also be in employment or education within two years. At the same time, we can see that there are currently 120 000 foreign born at Arbetsförmedlingen who do not have completed upper secondary school education. Half of them also lack primary education. The Public Employment Service has also concluded that this is a challenge that is greater than ever and something that we have never been near. This, of course, places demands on Swedish labour market policy, and this not least places demands on the responsible minister and on the government. That is why I have asked the Minister what measures she intends to take to facilitate access to the labour market for those who are born abroad and have little training. At the same time, we have seen what the government has done – which has been debated earlier here by my colleague Katarina Brännström – regarding the phasing out of the employment phase. We see that people have gone to a large extent from employment to nothing. There were big and wide promises ahead of the 2014 elections about trainee jobs and extra services. Now it's government emergency work. But it is 120 000 foreign born at Arbetsförmedlingen. Of the promised 32 000 trainee jobs, it has been under 300, as far as I know, although perhaps something has been added in recent days. We heard in an earlier debate about the extra services; they are 1 800. So 32 000 trainee jobs and 20 000 extra posts were promised. The fast tracks are great, we think. The problem is that very few of those involved are there. Now the government has promised the state emergency work to 5,000 people. Looking at track records for what the government has managed to deliver in number of its promises, it does not bode well. But even if the government succeeds in delivering 100 per cent of the 5,000 rescue jobs, there are still 115 000 foreign born at the Employment Service. At the same time, we see that the government is making certain proposals. The problem is that they are directly counterproductive. You cut down on the RUT deduction. Now the Minister will say that you are not doing it at all, but you are actually halving the amount. We propose to triple it. We know that the RUT reform was an important reform that led to those who were far from the labour market, not least people with low education and people who are new in Sweden, getting jobs, starting companies and entering the labour market. We propose a first-job job to get one foot into the labour market. The government has not acted in this regard. We have debated this on many previous occasions: many parts of Sweden are doing well now. We're in a boom. The problem is that the government is extremely lucky with its policies because there is just a boom. However, figures show that the impact of government employment policy is that the number of jobs is falling or that unemployment risks increasing due to the budget. Unemployment is falling, but it is due to the boom. There is a challenge here.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-134	Madam President, I would like We have a pretty good business cycle. But it is also the case that we are doing the right things in this economic situation. We have been assessed by the OECD, and we have been assessed, for example, by the credit rating agency Moodys. None of them are working directly on behalf of the government, but they say that the government is doing exactly the right thing and that we have a balanced economic and fiscal policy at this point. It is of course important to invest in investment and training in this economic situation. Madam President, I would like Let me say this anyway: we have many with short education, the majority of which are young. Among those who are up to 29 years of age and who are born abroad, half of them lack upper secondary school skills. Among those under the age of 20, enrolled in AF and born abroad, nearly 70 per cent lack upper secondary school education. So we are talking about young people without upper secondary education, and some are even without full primary education. For the vast majority, the answer would be education. We need to make sure that they receive the necessary training to manage the Swedish labour market. I'm a little surprised that Christian Holm Barenfeld doesn't draw that conclusion, because most people probably do it at this point. You have to invest in more people getting a chance at education, and the government does. But I'm going to say self-critically that things aren't going as well as I expected. There are still far too few who go on to regular training after the start-up assignment or, for that matter, within the framework of the start-up assignment. It's a missing small percentage of the short-educated. This is very serious. I am usually told that education is not the solution to everything, and that is of course correct. However, I am absolutely convinced that education is a solution for more than 1 – 2% of the short-skilled in the start-up assignment. Here we need to radically increase the opportunities to move on to regular education. One important thing that I think Christian Holm Barenfeld and I share is that it would be good to see combinations of education and work. But one must say that it turns out that the Swedish labour market has a little difficulty in getting volume on this type of measures. It is about career introductions, which the previous government introduced and which I think is a good thing. But the volumes are still small despite the fact that this has been around for many years. It's about trainee jobs, which also have small volumes. This is another way of combining education and work, but it has often proved bumpy to get these solutions to work in practice. Changes to this may be needed to make it easier to use different combinations, but one must also be prepared to consider whether a completely different solution is needed for the combination of education and work. I hope and believe that Christian Holm Barenfeld shares my view that that is what we need. The additional services are growing at quite a good pace after the agreement was reached with the parties concerned. But when it comes to education, there is still more to do, and that is really the focus for me right now. We will increase the proportion of short-skilled newcomers to regular studies.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-142	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ylva Johansson! We can certainly stand here and knock on each other and highlight ourselves when it comes to what the respective governments have done and have not done. I do not think that everything the current government is doing is wrong. On the other hand, I think that it is above all a mistake to do much of what should be done. Today we are in a boom, and we can see that the government receives confirmation for certain parts. Let's look at the previous government – the one that Ylva Johansson talks about all the time and tells us that it was less good, or even bad, and how bad it went for Sweden during that time. If you look at awards, you can see that the then finance minister has received prizes that I could imagine the current one might not get. It is about being appointed both as Europe's and the world's best finance minister and so on. However, I can stand by my chest for this, but we must also look to the future. What were we doing right, and what did we need to do? Above all, it is a question of changing the world around us. We've seen that we should have done certain things that we didn't. In addition, the world has changed. That is why we are reviewing our policy. We work through each area and see how we can put forward new proposals that correspond to the reality we have today. That is why we have put forward a series of proposals on what we want to do to increase the number of jobs, so that those who are far removed from the labour market can get into it and that those who need training can get training. Ylva Johansson said it's good to see combinations of education and work. It is not least the Moderates together with the Alliance who have stuck bloody to get a first-job job, to be able to learn the job at work and to combine education and work. We think that's important. It is obvious that children and young people who come to Sweden will receive an education. But we also know that we have many new adults who even lack primary education and may not be able to write or read. Then the road can be long if you're going to start from scratch in school and walk all the way through the education system until you're employable. It is particularly important that these people enter the labour market, but they may not be full of work from the first day, but it can be combined with training. But adults who come here without primary education from another country have probably done other things in life than to educate themselves. They probably have other experiences that it is important that we take advantage of and – if possible – develop to lower the thresholds into the labour market. What, then, is being done politically? In many situations, the present government is making things difficult in the parts where we carried out reforms and ensured that the thresholds for the labour market were lowered for those who were far from it. Instead, a series of other reforms are being presented. These might have been good, but it had provided that they worked, which we see they haven't. 32,000 trainee jobs have been promised, but it wasn't even 300. The additional services are 1 800 of the promised 20,000. The state preparedness jobs have probably not really got started, but it is said that there will be 5 000 of them. The fast track is 4 percent involved. We are now two and a half years into the term of office, and such results show that the government's labour market policy is not a real one. One can say that Sweden is doing well and that it is then good that there are not too many people coming into action, but unfortunately we do not have a shortage of people who are outside the labour market. Those who are far removed from the labour market are also ever further removed from it.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-152	Madam President, I would like Of course, the previous government did some things right and well. But you failed at the jobs-- that's why you weren't allowed to continue ruling. On this point, we have a new policy now. We have received 150 000 new jobs since this government took office. We also have a falling unemployment rate, an increased employment rate and the lowest youth unemployment rate in 13 years. So it is moving in the right direction when it comes to jobs. We have a record number of new arrivals, of which a significant proportion have a short education. This, of course, is the major challenge that we now have to address, and it is also this that is the focus of government efforts. It's about education. The largest group consists of young people who lack education. It is about investing in the possibility of regular education, so that they have a basis for being able to gain a permanent foothold on the Swedish labour market. It is important here to combine vocational training and sfi, for example, so-called yfi, which is used in many places. For those who have really short education you can invest in sfi base, where you combine other education with sfi. Such efforts need to be stepped up. There is also a group whose members have a short education and are no longer so young. We cannot always count on training to the level normally required in the Swedish labour market. I do not think this is realistic for all individuals. Instead, we are talking about low-skilled jobs, and that is exactly what the government is working for. We also see that the number of such jobs is now increasing.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-158	Madam President, I would like I think it is important at this point that we look forward rather than backwards. However, one cannot – as the current government and Ylva Johansson often try to do – ignore the fact that 350 000 more people came to work under the alliance government. The employment rate increased, which is good, while for a number of years we were in the most extensive global financial crisis that we have seen in modern times. It goes without saying that such things affect. It affects our companies. On this point, I think I and Ylva Johansson agree. As Ylva himself said earlier, it is the case that the jobs are created by the companies going well and that they employ. Of course, the conditions for this are somewhat better in the economic boom than in the recession and global financial crisis. During that period Sweden received very good grades. We had a much better situation than most in the world around us. Ylva Johansson raised the issue of simple jobs – jobs with lower qualification requirements. We are clear that there are too few simple jobs in Sweden. At the same time, however, we know that Ylva Johansson says this when she is here, but when she meets her friends in the Social Democratic Party Executive – who come straight from the LO-borg – they have other views on the simple jobs. The union – at least the Social Democratic parts of it – is not so amazingly fascinated by simple jobs. It's good if Ylva Johansson pushes us to get more jobs that those with lower qualifications can take. Even better would it be if the Moderates' proposal to be able to learn the job at work and also supports the proposal to extend the RUT, which we fortunately managed to get through parts of in the migration agreement. I believe that new arrivals outside the labour market need more ways into it. Thank you for the debate.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-163	Madam President, I would like I think learning the job at work is a good idea. There are career introductions with exactly this purpose. As I said earlier, I think it's a good way. Unfortunately, the volumes have not been so large, but I hope that they will be able to increase. Let me make it clear to Christian Holm Barenfeld how we Social Democrats view jobs with low qualification requirements. We do not see any intrinsic value in having a large proportion of low-productive jobs in the Swedish labour market. On the contrary, it is a good thing that Sweden can compete with highly productive jobs, rapid development and adaptability, so that we stand well in global competition. Social Democrats have always stood up for all people to work and support themselves with their own work and with their own wages. This means making adjustments for some people who find it difficult to enter the labour market. That's why we have Samhall. That's why we have wage subsidies. That is why we have special forms of employment and special subsidies for different groups, which is why we are now working with, for example, additional services and modern preparedness jobs. We do this because it is important for the individual to be able to support themselves with their own work and because it is important to make demands that all people work and participate in Swedish society.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-166	Madam President, I would like Ali Esbati has asked me whether I intend to take the initiative to review the system of activity reports and whether I intend to help change the priorities of the Public Employment Service, from the focus on control to the focus on support and supervision. He has also asked whether I intend to take the initiative to tighten up the control and sanctions of companies receiving grants from the Employment Service. A starting point for government policy is that everyone who can work should work. The individual has a responsibility to be at the disposal of the labour market and to acquire the necessary skills. At the same time, society has a responsibility to create the conditions for everyone to get and take a job. The management of Arbetsförmedlingen was previously far too detailed. The government's focus has been that the agency should have more space to design its operations. Job mediators should have the opportunity to make professional assessments based on the individual needs of the job seeker, while monitoring in their role that these persons are active in their job seeker. Activity reporting means that the unemployed regularly and structuredly describe what they have done to get out of unemployment. This gives Arbetsförmedlingen a better opportunity to identify jobseekers with special needs for help and support in their job seeker and thus adapt the mediation efforts. Employment services also need tools to check that job seekers are at the disposal of the labour market. Activity reporting should of course fulfil its purpose but not create unnecessary administration. The Employment Service has proposed to exempt certain groups of participants in labour market policy programmes from the requirement to report their activities in activity reports. However, the Public Employment Service is already in a position to decide how and by which time interval activity reporting should take place. The question is being prepared within the Government Office. In order for Arbetsförmedlingen's activities to function effectively, the Authority must have the trust and legitimacy of both job seekers and employers, suppliers and other partners. Of course, this means that payments from the public to the company should be made correctly. Anyone who pays taxes or is in need of public support has the right to expect order. Furthermore, the existence of collective agreements is important in order to ensure good working conditions. In this context, I would like to point out that, as of 1 February, the government has changed the rules on new start-up jobs so that employment conditions that comply with or are equivalent to collective agreements are required. In the field of labour market policy, the Public Employment Service has a responsibility to ensure that there is internal control of the aid and benefits granted, so that the rules are complied with and resources are used effectively. Much of the labour market policy payments made to enterprises are made through subsidised employment. If, for example, employers provide incorrect information or have otherwise caused the aid to be wrongly paid or overpaid, they shall reimburse the amount unduly paid. The government has taken several initiatives to better shape control and sanctions against companies and employers who receive subsidies on incorrect grounds, for example. Among other things, a delegation has been set up to combat over-exploitation and mispayments from welfare and other related tax-funded or tax-subsidised schemes. A special investigator has been tasked with reviewing the capacity of the welfare state to withstand organised and systematic economic crime. An evaluation is also ongoing of the application of the Grant Crimes Act and the effects that the Act has had. The task includes reviewing the scope of the Act, including the fact that the Act does not currently include support for employers.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-176	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Ylva Johansson for his answer. At least we agree on the problem description on a point-by-point basis. Ylva Johansson also points to several evaluations and studies that could lead to a more balanced situation in relation to the control of the unemployed and of the companies receiving government money to receive the long-term unemployed or persons with reduced working capacity. After the answer, however, there remains some of my concern that the really bad, ideological and bureaucratic legacy of the former right-wing government will persist. After all, we agree that the foundation of Swedish labour market policy is that the individual is responsible for actively looking for work while society is providing support, both financially within unemployment insurance and in other ways through, for example, the possibility of education and other activating measures. What is at the bottom is a thought of reciprocity, that in the long term we all benefit from helping those people who want to find a job and that they also have dignified conditions in the meantime. It is clear that this system was subjected to very harsh and ideologically motivated attacks under the Reinfeldt government, including through the deterioration of unemployment insurance, but also through changes in the work of the Employment Service to more control and punishment. Ylva Johansson says in her reply that the governance of Arbetsförmedlingen earlier was far too detailed. I agree that there has been a welcome rescheduling on this point after the elections. However, I conclude from the answer that the government needs to be reminded that there is a great need for further changes. This applies, on the one hand, to the rigid system of activity reports and to the problems it may cause, and, on the other hand, to the shortcomings in the control of companies receiving subsidies. In my interpellation, I mentioned as an example a review in the newspaper Dagens Arbete. There, the director of IF Metall's unemployment fund says something about activity reports that are very important. He says: The bad guys make sure to fill out their forms correctly. Those affected are those who have reading and writing difficulties or who have Swedish as a second language. The activity reports are bullshit. The long-term unemployed do not need this, they need support and help. ..................................................... It's a core issue. There are also examples of people in that review – and I personally know about many cases – who are suffering unreasonably hard in connection with the problem of activity reporting. It can be a matter of trivial mistakes or that people are not doing exactly right because of language difficulties or a problematic situation in life, and then they are hit very hard by the result. Recently, at the beginning of February, there was a statement from the Parliamentary Ombudsman, the Parliamentary Ombudsman, who criticises the Public Employment Service for having repeatedly announced that jobseekers will receive a sanction without there being grounds for it. The JO states that it is not uncommon for jobseekers to receive letters stating that sanctions may be imposed even though there are no grounds for doing so. The employment services must review their procedures so that this can be avoided. The Minister says in his reply that activity reporting should fulfil its purpose but that it should not create unnecessary administration. I think it would have been appropriate to have had a much stronger problem with the activity reports as a method of control – partly because they are very comprehensive and partly because it should be stated that people who are unemployed also need freedom and flexibility. The job seeker as an activity should not necessarily be about how many hours of the day he spends filling in the application documents. I would have liked to hear more about that from the Minister.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-185	Madam President, I would like We probably share the view that there is a need for a more rigorous control of those companies that carry out their business on the basis of tax revenue. Many of these companies are of course doing a very good job. However, it is important to ensure that it is not easy for those who want to exploit the system or those who have purely criminal intentions. One of the reasons we removed the slot machines was that we saw that it was a significant proportion of those who were in the grey area and even on the very other side of what is allowed to pay tax money for. My view in this regard is that more needs to be done. That is why we have appointed various delegations, evaluations and investigations, and we look forward to their proposals. One such question is whether aid offences can also be committed by companies. Or is it only the individual who can do it? These are issues to which it is very relevant to come back to when we have received the proposals from the investigations. Madam President, I would like It is important that there is a balance between, on the one hand, opportunities and support for the unemployed and, on the other hand, legitimate demands for their own efforts. I do not share the view of the old government that you should have an effective control of the unemployed or that you would be more inclined to take a job if you are poor than if you are able to survive on decent unemployment insurance. But I share the view that it is not the Employment Service that should control the unemployed. People themselves must take responsibility for identifying the way in which they are at the disposal of the labour market. It is unreasonable to put the whole control task on the work mediators – on the one hand it does not work, and on the other hand it is not their job. I think it is reasonable for the rescheduling that we have done, that it is the individual himself who should show that we are at the disposal of the labour market. In this way, the labour mediators will have to settle for what the individual shows. It is, of course, serious to criticise that activity reporting would be inflexible. I think there is some justification for that criticism. It is the responsibility of Arbetsförmedlingen to ensure that you have good procedures for how activity reporting should be used and also what it is that should be reported. The regulatory framework for which I am responsible clearly states that it is the Public Employment Service itself that has to decide how an activity report should be done and what it is that should be reported, so that one gets a sensible idea that the person is really at the disposal of the labour market, and how often to report. That's a little bit my answer to the Arbetsförmedlingen. You should look at what you can do yourself before asking for changes to the regulatory framework, which I think is basically right and proper. Then we will probably have to make changes. This applies to individuals who have difficulties with activity reporting as a form. It can be about dyslexia, cognitive impairments and other reasons. It may be that the individual suffers unreasonably hard because activity reporting is difficult for that particular individual. I think that's where changes are needed. But the basic idea that it is the individual who is responsible for accounting and not the employment intermediary who should try to clarify whether one is really at the disposal of the labour market is a system that I want to protect.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-194	Madam President, I would like I am pleased to hear more of the things that the Minister is saying and perhaps take particular note of the fact that, in future, aid crimes can be committed not only by individuals but also by the companies that commit such crimes. In many cases, those crimes may be more serious and then they should be able to be prosecuted according to the law, if it is to remain in that form. We also agree that there was a great deal of – to say that mildly – problem with the procurement hysteria that was forced at Arbetsförmedlingen under the previous government. As I said at the beginning, there is a great deal left of that legacy that does not disappear automatically. It is about what the rules look like and how one sees one's own work versus the unemployed, even if a journey has begun. The Minister also mentions the word balance, and that is where I want to come in. I think we have a good and reasonable conversation and would like to take the opportunity to make a record of what balance can mean and even problematize some things. It sometimes gets a little abstract, and you talk about problems that you should review. In the review that Dagens Arbete did, there is an example of someone who can be hit very hard by what I call the rigidity of activity reporting. This is about a person who has received help from Arbetsförmedlingen to fill out their forms due to a disability. But there will be some trouble with the addressing of certain papers, and he gets his support withdrawn. Although his former administrator at Arbetsförmedlingen explains the situation, the Office for Reimbursement of Reimbursement at Arbetsförmedlingen chooses to reject and pursue the matter further. It is true that the person is finally right in administrative law, but it is a question of a lot of time and energy that has been put into the process. It has undoubtedly been a burden on the person in question – in this case a person with a disability who is trying to enter the labour market and who needs the support of society to do so. Such rigidity must be avoided. It is also very interesting to read the interview with Arbetsförmedlingen's Deputy Director General, Clas Olsson, in the same review. I'm sure he's a conscientious and irreproachable civil servant with an ambition to follow the rules as it stands. He admits that there may be shortcomings in the control of companies and adds that it is a question of balance how much resources we should spend on controls compared to service. In itself, it is quite reasonable to think about it. But when it comes to controlling the unemployed, he says: It's part of regular business. The fact that it is possible to have so much control is because it is simple. ..................................................... Both of these statements are certainly correct, but the problem is that there are a lot of other costs for this control, and they are not recorded in the Employment Service's budget. This is a different perspective from the bureaucratic one, namely the political one. What kind of signals do you send? What is the view of labour market policy and the relationship between the authorities and those who happen to find themselves in unemployment? There is one more aspect. When it comes to money and financial punishment or sanctions, they have different effects depending on the situation people have as their starting point. For people with very small margins, a small economic sanction can mean a great deal. This must also be taken into account if we are now talking about balance in the system.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-202	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to mention that in the past we had an interpellation debate here about the problems that exist with procurement and the Arbetsförmedlingen's work on procurement. I will not repeat what was then said. But it is important to say that one of the biggest problems that existed when we did not have procurements was LOV. As a result, we had an unreasonably large number of private actors that the Public Employment Service did not have a reasonable chance to keep track of. There were well over 1 000 suppliers, while other comparable countries may be 30, 40 or 50 complementary operators. It is important to have a regulatory framework that allows a reasonable number of actors to be engaged in close dialogue with and able to follow. Madam President, I would like Ali Esbati mentioned an example of an individual who has been unduly affected. It is, of course, very unfortunate, and I do not wish anyone to have to suffer this or that we should have it that way. But when it comes to activity reporting overall, my employees and I naturally have a very close dialogue with the various organisations of unemployment funds. The fact that they would be dissatisfied with the activity reporting system is not a continuous problem, but they highlight people who have difficulties with it for individual reasons, for example because of disabilities. This is an issue where I am prepared to make changes. Overall, the most common sanction is a warning and compensation is not withdrawn. The group that gets a warning is pretty big. I cannot rule out that this is happening on the wrong ground, but I still think it is good that we have early warning systems that show that something is not working. The alert system may show that the individual does not take his/her job search seriously, but it may also show that the action plan is not relevant based on the situation of the person concerned. Job search always takes place in relation to an action plan, and it is in relation to it that you report activity. It will therefore be an early warning signal to both Arbetsförmedlingen and the individual, which I think is good. So we see a large group receiving an early warning, and then nothing more happens. It is resolved in some way, either by the individual or jointly with Arbetsförmedlingen. Within the activity support – but not within the unemployment fund – we have a fairly large group that goes all the steps in the warning and sanction steps. They are therefore no longer at the disposal of the labour market. It is revealed in this way, and you get rid of your compensation completely. This was a flaw in the old system. People could be enrolled in AF, but in fact they could no longer be job seekers, but they might have gone abroad or did something completely different. It wasn't captured in the statistics. I think it is good that we have better control over which AF has to work, and that people are really at the disposal of the labour market. It's about big numbers, and a lot of people report activity. There will be many activity reports, and many warnings will be issued during the first levels. Looking at the totality of this, with so many people involved, I still want to defend this fundamentally, despite the fact that there are some problems with the design and the way in which activity reporting is conducted. It is good that we have a system in which the individual should account. Looking at the whole picture, I think we have a good outcome. Many get an early warning, but then nothing happens because the warning has the effect you would expect. Either the people in question come to the meetings they are going to and are looking for a job, or adjustments are made in relation to the Employment Service. The whole is worth defending, but there are, of course, parts in which one must be prepared to make changes.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-212	Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise that we agree on something that I also wrote about in my interpellation and mentioned earlier, namely that it is a reasonable starting point that the unemployed have their own personal responsibility to seek employment and to be at the disposal of the labour market. There is no discussion. Rather, the question is what methods can be found for this to be both effective and based on trust. It should also be possible to build trust between the unemployed as a group and the authorities that are set up to help them, on behalf of all of us, into a better situation. I do not entirely agree with the Minister on the description of activity reporting as something that the a-cassages are generally satisfied with. It probably depends a little on what options you compare to. I would like to use my last minute to lift up the other side of the coin, which we have not had much time to talk about today. This applies to the grants to the companies receiving the aid. Trade union influence is a key issue in order to overcome some of the abuses that are about bad conditions, less well-calculated entrepreneurs and people who do not provide sufficient conditions for those who come there and who do not provide good enough guidance. In this case, therefore, it is not a question of direct crime or of syndicates which pump out a lot of money from the state. Sometimes unions can make the assessment that companies will not be able to do it. They can also say that too many people are in a workplace and that it may be that the company wants to get subsidised labour without giving anything back to society. I would like the Minister to say in her last speech whether she has any plans to reinforce this.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-217	Madam President, I would like The union has a very important role in the Swedish labour market, also in terms of labour market policy interventions and employment support. Therefore, the government has now also introduced requirements for new start-up jobs on collective agreements. It has been a form of subsidy that has not had this in the past. This is a clear ideological marker, because we see no reason why there should be other conditions in subsidised employment for which taxpayers pay. These forms of employment are quite favourable to the employer, and they must be subject to collective agreements or collective agreements such as they are in this case under EU law. This is one of the important steps taken by the government. Let me come back a little bit to activity reporting. We are in the process of a change concerning the start-up assignment, where we do not have activity reporting in that way today. There is activity reporting, but it is the work mediators who spend time checking that hour by hour you have done the start-up assignment. Employment agencies testify that 20 to 25 percent of the working time is spent going through these lists hour by hour in order for the individual to receive his or her establishment allowance, which is what he or she lives on and is completely dependent on. It's a completely unreasonable control of time. I intend to come forward with proposals to make the start-up mission more a regular labour market policy programme; in the same way as other unemployed people, it is a solemn declaration that they are giving the correct information, and that they are given the information in an activity report. I think it is a reasonable way of making such demands. It should not be the job mediators' task to try to find out for themselves with excessive zeal what the individual has done or not done, but one must be able to use activity reporting as a tool. But I am convinced that it is also possible to make reforms in the way in which activity reporting is used. It is the task of Arbetsförmedlingen to make this possible in a way that is simple, smooth and effective both for Arbetsförmedlingen and for the individual. Thank you very much for a good debate.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-222	Madam President, I would like In the light of the labour market conflict in the port of Gothenburg, Lars Hjälmered has asked me whether I intend to initiate a legislative change to combat measures that ensure peace obligations and that signed collective agreements should be respected without interference by third parties. The Swedish labour market model is based on the fact that the parties regulate labour market conditions through agreements on wage and employment conditions. The right to take action is, as I have recently also replied to Lars Hjälmered in a written answer to the same question, constitutionally established in the form of government and applies subject to law or agreement. The detailed conditions and limitations regarding the legality of conflict measures, damages for unlawful action and the obligation of peace in collective agreements are governed by the Co-determination Act. The Government does not intend to change these basic elements for the functioning of the Swedish model, which requires mutual trust between the parties and that the parties jointly assume responsibility for the model's proper functioning. One of the aims of employers to meet collective agreements with an employee organisation on terms and conditions of employment is to obtain, among other things, working peace. Against this background, I understand that it may be frustrating that, in some cases, an employer who has a collective agreement may still be affected by countermeasures. However, according to settled case-law of the Labour Court, the starting point is that an employee's organisation can take action in support of a claim for collective agreements for a scope where collective agreements already apply between the employer and another employee party, even though the additional collective agreement would be contrary to the existing one. In practice, this type of competition is usually resolved by interested parties. From time to time, however, conflicts arise in this type of situation. Without commenting on the current conflict in Gothenburg and the specific facts there, I can see that there is reason to identify and analyse this type of conflict in the labour market, i.e. when a contractual employer may be subjected to action by a worker's organisation other than that with which the employer has an agreement. In order to get a clearer picture of the issue, the Government therefore intends to give the Mediation Institute such an assignment.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-228	Madam President, I would like On behalf of my colleague, Lars, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply to the interpellation. This is a rather serious issue. The port of Gothenburg receives about 60 percent of all container transports to Sweden and handles a large part of the goods that come to and travel from Sweden. The employer in the container port has a collective agreement with the LO union Transport. Through this rather lengthy strike, the Port Workers' Association is looking to create major problems for port traffic in Gothenburg. It is also proposed to extend the strike to other ports. The consequences of this are very important and serious for Sweden as a country. The employer and the trade union have been involved in signing a serious collective agreement with everything it means. Yet one is questioned and crippled. Not only is it frustrating that the situation is as it is, but it is also serious. That is why the question to the Minister is: what does the Minister intend to do to remedy this? In the interpellation response, she says that this type of conflict in the labour market should be identified and analysed. What does that mean in concrete terms? Ylva Johansson has now announced that the Government intends to commission the Mediation Institute to review this. But can the Minister specify something more what the ambition and hope for this is? This is going to be a strange situation in a country that still has very strong trade union rights. The employer signs an ambitious collective agreement with a party, does his job and tries to be serious. Then there will be a completely different alliance which not only requires a collective agreement but also takes action against it. Nor, as far as I understand, is it possible in any case to sign several agreements. It has been possible for the Port Workers' Union to sign the so-called hanger agreement of the Transport Workers' Union, but this is something that the Port Workers' Union has rejected. It would be interesting to hear something more about how the Minister for Labour views this rather serious situation, which, moreover, risks having quite a significant impact directly on the area of the Minister for Labour, namely the Swedish jobs and developments there.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-234	Madam President, I would like I felt obliged to take part in this debate too, because it is, as was said at the outset, undeniably a very serious issue. In the many situations in which we debate labour market issues, for many years bourgeois Members have resisted the impulses to want to restrict the right to strike, a central democratic right that is constitutionally established, enshrined and so on. In recent times, however, it has become more common to take advantage of any situation in the labour market and express a desire to restrict the rights of people in Sweden and to take collective action on the labour market. There are a lot of things that can be discussed in a different situation, such as the exact conditions in the port of Gothenburg, what kind of situation has preceded this conflict with privatisation and so on. But the central point here is, of course, the rights at stake. Our Moderate comrade here had a question for the Minister about what is the ambition and hope of the analysis that the government now apparently wants the Mediation Institute to do. The question back to Christian Holm Barenfeld must be – from my side anyway: What would your ambition and the hopes of your party be about what you would like a Swedish government to do regarding the right to take a conflict in the labour market? Would it be that there is a ban on taking conflict measures in order to reach an agreement as a trade union? Is that the alternative? The obligation of peace that we are talking about applies as a result of an agreement. The trade union which is now in conflict with the port's employer has no agreement and therefore no duty to peace. The question would be whether to demand that there be some kind of ban on all other trade unions that might be able to take conflict action if there is a collective agreement. It's a very strong procedure. As the Minister said earlier, it has been firm practice that the Labour Court has said that this should not be the case in Sweden. One has to think a little about what the consequences of such a provision may be. In Sweden we have had very little of that type of conflict, both of conflicts in general and of that kind of conflict. We have an industrial principle, and we have strong trade unions. Often there is no question of how to distribute the contractual burden in a workplace. But there are situations where it can occur. Then it must be solved by the measurement of the strength that it is at a workplace if there is that kind of discussion. If one were to say that as soon as a trade union has a conflict agreement, it is forbidden by law to take any kind of collective action to get an agreement, it means, for example, that one would say to the employer: If you make up a trade union that bears an agreement and with which you sign an agreement, one would forbid other trade unions to fight for a reasonable agreement. That would be a very untimely and terrible solution. The practical concrete issue here that Christian Holm Barenfeld needs to consider is whether he wants more conflicts or less conflicts on the Swedish labour market. Trying to shake the right to strike is the guarantee that there will be more conflict.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-242	Madam President, I would like I would like to reiterate once again that the right to take action is constitutional, that is to say: the right to strike is a fundamental right, subject to any other law or agreement. It's a very important principle. It is also an important principle that the Labour Court has given its opinion and judgment in cases where it has been shown that the Labour Court practice is that the starting point is that the employee organisation can take action in support of claims for collective agreements for a scope where collective agreements already apply between the employer and another employee party despite the fact that the additional collective agreement would be contrary to the existing one. It also follows from the case law of the Labour Court that agreements which are contrary to or incompatible with each other are a problem which is not solved by prohibiting measures of conflict in order to bring about the latter agreement, but by means of legal principles of competition between different collective agreements. We have a situation where the Swedish labour market is almost uniquely peaceful compared to all comparable countries and is a relatively well-functioning labour market. This does not prevent me from understanding that it is a very difficult situation right now for the Port of Gothenburg. It is an ongoing conflict, and I am not going to speak in the current conflict. I am not going to go into those questions, but I have given my answer. The intention is for the government on Thursday to give a mandate to the Mediation Institute with exactly the direction that I indicated in my reply to provide further input in order to get a clearer picture of this type of conflict that we are now discussing.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-245	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It goes without saying that I am fully aware that the right to strike is constitutionally protected. But the result of this is that when an employer still signs collective agreements that are very extensive, you end up somewhere in the situation where you ask yourself, Is it worth anything? Is there an idea? Should they be drawn at all? It may be a question of when, in spite of this, you are put into action. What is happening now is that it paralyzes quite a lot of Swedish transport. If this is extended further, the consequences will be even more serious. If you are a little more revolutionary, and perhaps Ali Esbati is, you do not think that there are any major problems. There we may not always be standing right next to each other, me and our left-wing parties, including Ali. The question is what can be done. The Constitution is one thing, and it must be respected. But it is possible to regulate and review exactly how, when, where and what action can be taken and at what time. When it comes to as central parts as strategic ports for Sweden, there may be reason to review this. It is good that the government is now acting. But I hope that this action also means that there will be some change. Unfortunately, this does not help in the situation we are facing. It is regrettable and worrying. I understand that it is not easy, as a minister, to just say that one should now stop. But it is definitely something that now directly harms and complicates the work of the Port of Gothenburg and the work of all those individuals who have their daily work there while at the same time damaging a large part of the transport to and from Sweden. I therefore hope that the government will take concrete decisions and that this will then lead to concrete results.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-249	Madam President, I would like The current situation has arisen, regardless of what one thinks of the material content of the various agreements. One must then ask: why is it that a very large number of employees in a company want to be part of an association which, with collective action, requires certain types of rights? That is what the employer has to deal with. Christian Holm Barenfeld says that collective agreements that have already been signed then may not be worth anything. But obviously it is. It has been considered reasonable to sign that agreement, in this case with Transport. There is a concrete situation here where a large number of people are in a trade union and have their constitutional right to resort to collective action in order to get some kind of agreement with the employer. There are other aspects of this as well. For example, if you act against the trade union, there may be problems. For example, limiting the rights of safety representatives to move around the workplace may cause problems that are not intended or particularly good for the workplace. P review that C h ristian Holm Barenfeld was looking for is the basic question here: What is the alternative? What are you supposed to do instead? If it is a ban, it is a very far-reaching and unreasonable restriction of fundamental rights. This is something that has been obvious to the Labour Court for a long time that it would not be very good to go that way. On the question of whether I was revolutionary, I can ask Christian Holm Barenfeld to speak a little with his own youth union president, who writes on Twitter today: Now it happens that this trade union is not in LO. It is a little bit of confusion beyond the revolutionary tone, but at least it is not good.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-254	Madam President, I would like Christian Barenfeld regrets that I will not intervene in the ongoing conflict. It is better that we have a system in which the Minister for Labour does not intervene in ongoing labour disputes. I also refrain from going deeper into discussing the ongoing conflict. The problem for the Moderates on this issue is that they have a low level of credibility in safeguarding the right to strike and fundamental rights in the labour market. It is one of your problems, Christian Holm Barenfeld – that you find it difficult to find the right balance. You were in charge of legislation, lex Laval, which in a totally unreasonable way restricted the right to strike when it comes to taking action on the terms of posted workers. We are now putting forward proposals to get this right so that we can comply with the protection directives in force and ensure that posted workers receive the minimum wage we are obliged to ensure. With regard to the ongoing conflict in the port of Gothenburg, I have no further comments on it, Madam President.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-257	Madam President, I would like No, we have no problem with what Ylva Johansson listed. This is not really a debate about lex Laval, but it is a case where Ylva Johansson's party colleagues in Building were involved. There is a direct link between the LO-borg and, nowadays, the Government Office because the Chairman of the LO is always in the absolute highest leadership of the Social Democrats. In this case we had people from Latvia who were in Sweden working. There were collective agreements. And then there were grown Swedish men screaming Go home! Then they weren't at the party meeting, but then they were there with Building. I think it was horrifying. It was something I was ashamed of. I think it embarrassed Sweden, and of course it also embarrassed the trade union Building. This also led to legislative work in which lex Laval was the result. Now, on the other hand, the Swedish Government is trying to pursue a line where this is going to change, and it is true that we do not think it would be reasonable. Instead, I think it would be better if, before making that change, the Swedish Government actually tried to introduce the so-called implementing directive and evaluate it. The issue here, however, is how to ensure that an employer can enter into collective agreements and then be sure to be able to have a dialogue and run his company together with his employees. Of course, discussions, dialogues and negotiations can be conducted without putting anyone in a blockade, stopping working, shouting, Go home! or whatever you choose to do.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-261	Madam President, I would like The Government's intention is on Thursday to give a commission to the Mediation Institute to come back to the Government with a picture of how common this type of conflict, where collective agreements stand against each other, is. There will also be some other assignments linked to this. I have no further comments on the ongoing conflict in the port of Gothenburg. I think it would be inappropriate to have it as Minister for Labour. With regard to the bill that Parliament is receiving from the government today, I believe, which is about tearing up lex Laval and getting a new regime for posted workers, it means precisely that we are implementing the implementing directive in order to ensure that posted workers benefit from the minimum conditions that the directive requires us to ensure. We have not been able to do that before. Now we finally have a proposal on the table of Parliament, and I hope that Parliament will support it – for the sake of employees, and for the ability of Swedish companies to compete under fair terms.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-264	Madam President, I would like Jonas Gjörtler has asked me how I see the serious conflicts of interests described in the interpellation and what measures I and the government are prepared to take in this regard. Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler also asked Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog The government's work is so distributed that it is I who should answer the questions. I agree with Jonas Gjörtler's reasoning that measures are needed to strengthen competitiveness and profitability and to help achieve the long-term objectives of the food strategy. Jacobsson Gjörtler calls for action. The Food Strategy presented and its Action Plan are the government's response to this. There is much that can be done to strengthen the competitiveness of the food chain, and we have now taken the first steps in the implementation of the objectives agreed by the government together with the Left Party and the bourgeois opposition. On 7 February, the Government launched its Food Strategy Action Plan. In this, the Government presents measures for the whole food chain in order to achieve the objectives of the Food Strategy. We point out areas such as regulatory simplification for companies in the food chain, increased exports of food, equivalent control and licensing activities throughout the country, increased organic production and consumption, and research and innovation efforts. I do not see the target conflicts that Mr Gjörtler points out. It is to simplify the discussion and perception of what food production is. There is a huge demand for organic food, and it should be better met by Swedish producers. I believe in the Swedish countryside and Swedish food production and I am convinced that more food can be produced in Sweden. The growing demand for organic food can contribute to growth and competitiveness in Swedish agriculture and food production. There is currently a shortage of several Swedish organic products. The growing market for organic food creates opportunities in the market for small and large Swedish agricultural and food companies. Increased Swedish production of organic food would also contribute to achieving several of the environmental quality objectives, such as a non-toxic environment, a rich agricultural landscape and a rich plant and animal life. The Government will therefore shortly instruct the Swedish Board of Agriculture to appoint a coordination function to promote organic food in terms of both production and consumption as well as exports. Further work to promote ecologically will also develop an action plan and milestones for achieving the objectives. This shall be done in consultation with stakeholders.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-272	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Rural Development for his answer. It is a bit sad that the Minister for the Environment is not here to debate the part dealing with exports and our environmental impact, but we have to agree that the Minister for Rural Development is here to take the whole debate with him for so long. The issue concerns the food strategy, where the Alliance, the government and also the Left Party thus agreed on long-term goals. What has happened since then is that the government has presented its complete strategy, that is, not only the objectives but also the rest of the strategy, and an action plan. There are some things in the strategy that raise questions, I think. This is, among other things, a question of organic food. The government states that the production, consumption and export of organic food should increase. This is stated in the strategy, and the action plan also has a numerical target of 30% of Swedish agricultural land being certified organic agricultural land by 2030 and 60% of public food consumption being certified organic products by 2030. As I see it, there is reason to be critical of this, Madam President, for a number of reasons. It is stated in the overall objective that it is consumer demand that should guide. That's exactly how it's formulated. So what the government is doing now is setting a target for organic production, and it cannot be interpreted in any other way than that it is directly at odds with the overall objective, Madam President. I wonder here and would like to hear the rural minister develop the answer: how does the government think when, just a few days after we have agreed on an overall goal, it sets its own goals that are directly contrary to the overall objective? Another problem is that the overall goal says that food production will increase overall in Sweden. However, organic production provides lower volume than conventional production. There are some different figures on this, but the compilation made by SCB and the Swedish Board of Agriculture shows that the actual grain harvests for organic are significantly lower. They cover between 45 and 70 % of conventional cultivation. For example, for food potatoes, the figure is 49%. This means that if we were to switch completely to organically, between one third and half of production would disappear. So it is the case, the Minister for Rural Development, that it cannot be both more Swedish and more ecological at the same time. It is obvious to me that the government is more important to the ecological than to the Swedish. I think this is a bit of a pity because Swedish conventional production is so far advanced in terms of both environmental considerations and animal welfare. The Minister for Rural Development put it well, I thought, in a radio programme a few years ago. Here's what the Minister for Rural Development said then:"Swedish so-called conventional agriculture is actually the Swedish environmentally adapted agriculture. After all, the Government was absolutely right in that. I therefore do not understand why he and the government are now so keen to support another and specific form of production. Another problem with this is that lower Swedish volumes means that production will instead need to be higher elsewhere if we assume that we will continue to feed the population both in Sweden and globally. Since Swedish food production, including conventional food production, is more environmentally friendly than alternatives, this means an increased environmental burden. When we import more food from countries that have a greater environmental impact in their production than we do, it actually means that we are in breach of the generational goal set by Parliament that we should not export our environmental impact.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-281	Madam President, I would like I can agree with what Jonas Gjörtler said. Swedish agriculture is among the most important farms in the world when it comes to environmental and animal welfare. Our soils are good, our climate is good, our farmers are good, our advisors are good, our research is good and so on. Swedish food production has been declining for decades, and it is very serious for rural areas, jobs, cycles, biodiversity and more. Sweden is today perhaps Europe's most import-dependent country. We import 55% of our food. That is more than Norway does with its limited resources. This is, in fact, a scandal. It is good that Parliament's parties have agreed on targets for a food strategy. It should have seen the light of day much earlier. Enough about that, but it's good that it's here. The objectives of increased production, increased competitiveness and sustainable agriculture are good. But what does the government do now in its proposal to the Riksdag? Suddenly, the Green Party receives full support for its unilateral priority of organic or biologically certified food, in Sweden called organic. Suddenly, the goals that Parliament's parties have just agreed are being abandoned, and suddenly the extremely high target is that the public sector, municipalities and county councils should buy as much as 60 per cent of their food from organic farming worldwide. This is not honouring a political settlement. It is very doubtful that the state should write the municipalities on their noses when it comes to how to procure their food. I am convinced that the municipalities are perfectly capable of setting the conditions for procurement. If targets are to be set, the primary objective should be to prioritise the purchase of food that is locally grown under Swedish environmental and animal welfare requirements. Östergötland, for example, has set itself the goal in its excellent regional food strategy that 80 per cent of the food in public procurement should come from Sweden. I believe that Swedish agriculture is one of the world's most environmentally and animal welfare-friendly, both the dominant common environmentally friendly agriculture and the environmentally friendly eco-farming. These are two good and quite equivalent options with slightly different pros and cons. It is therefore extremely remarkable that the state should require the municipalities to buy the bulk of their food in the form of organic food from all over the world. It also gives significantly more expensive raw material costs, about 25 to 60 per cent, than Swedish food otherwise costs. This gives municipalities several billions in higher costs in a situation where there are forecasts that municipal taxes need to be increased by several SEK. When the state writes on the nose of the municipalities about how they should act, the question is whether this is what the municipalities' clients, such as elderly people in the care of the elderly or pupils and teachers in the schools, want. My view is that they mainly demand good home cooking from Sweden's farmers. Such a very strong signal from the state, that organic food is much better than food from Swedish agriculture, I find deeply problematic. They're both good. How can Sweden's Rural Minister agree to and defend that only a small part of the municipalities' food purchases should be allowed to come from the usual environmentally friendly agriculture? According to the government, Max 40 per cent of municipalities should be allowed to buy in from the dominant Swedish agriculture and also in competition with food from importing countries. It may only be 10 – 15 percent that will come from the usual farms in Sweden. What the hell has the government been thinking here? Is it the Nature Conservation Association and the Environmental Party that will govern Sweden's food strategy?
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-292	Madam President, I would like The target conflicts that Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler highlights do not exist. This is about increasing Swedish food production overall. The agreement that the government has with the Left Party and all bourgeois parties means that we agree on the overall objectives. We agree on the three strategic areas, that both conventionally and ecologically can increase, and that it is consumer demand that should govern this. We also agree that these targets are long-term by 2030 and that the overall targets should not be quantified. Nor have we done so in the proposal text; we have not numbered. But we have announced in these discussions that each government alone will lay down its action plan. It can look different over time. It can also be numbered. There is no agreement to ban the numbering. As far as the current situation is concerned, the consumption of organic t is far greater than production. We import a lot. It is difficult to obtain organic food. Often the shelves are empty in the shops. There has thus been a dramatic increase in the consumption of organic food. If we look at the last eight years, from 2008 to 2016, we see that it has increased from 6 billion to 25 billion, plus 19 billion in eight years. Analysts look at the next eight years, i.e. until 2024, and traces that consumption will increase to 45 billion, i.e. an increase of another 20 billion. Looking at public consumption, a total of 32% is organic today. They want to increase more, but they say from the public, from municipalities and county councils, that it is very difficult to get hold of this. There are some who succeed. The statistics from 2015 show that one in Sweden was actually Vellinge, which is a moderate-controlled municipality, which has 57 percent ecologically. The second was Lund, which is S-controlled, with 50 percent. They are close to Denmark so it is clear that it is perhaps a little easier to get a hold of organic there. It is with this as a background that the government now says in its action plan that we want a target. Please note that we cannot demand that there should be 60% in the public sector, but we want a focus target for the production area to increase from 17% to 30%. Total food production must increase in Sweden. We are politically agreed on this. There is no need for less policy, Staffan Danielsson, but it is the absence of policy that has reduced food production in this country over the last 20 years and has caused us to have a trade balance deficit on food by minus 47 billion. That is why we are taking these initiatives and taking these measures. The demand for organic food is increasing dramatically in Sweden. That is why we are adopting this action plan and deploying these resources – so that Swedish production can increase and also meet the consumer demand in this area. And it will create jobs. It will create jobs in Swedish rural areas when we increase food production. Madam President, I would like I know that Jonas protects Swedish production, both conventional and organic. So do I. Jonas knows that. Why, then, paint a conflict between different forms of production and say that if one is to increase, the other should decrease? That's a shame, because that's not the way it is. Both are needed, and both can actually increase. The food strategy is a response to the return of much greater food production.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-300	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Rural Affairs. There is no conflict of interests, says Bucht. I have to disagree with the Minister for Rural Development, because that is exactly what it does. That is exactly the subject of this interpellation, and that is the whole reason why we are having this debate. As I said before, organic production produces lower volumes. It is therefore not possible to say that the proportion of organic production should increase while at the same time saying that total production should increase. It is not possible to achieve this. If it is somewhere between one third and half of production that disappears, there will be a marked deterioration in our self-sufficiency, which in itself is a problem. It is correct, as the Minister for Rural Development says, that there is no ban on the differentiation of objectives. Nor has anyone claimed it. The problem here is that there is a conflict of interests. Then I think it is important to bear in mind that the overall long-term objective, in which we are broadly agreed in seven parties, applies before any numerical targets by the government. It gets a little strange when the Minister for Rural Development says that it is the absence of policy that is the problem here and that more policy is needed to solve the problem. I would say that the major problem for Swedish food production is that for decades competitiveness has been eroded and weakened. This has not been done through the absence of policies. It has been through far too much political presence. High taxes and other costs, regulatory problems, administrative burdens, special requirements – this is the deterioration of competitiveness. It is political decisions that have created this situation. The Minister for Rural Development is right to say that it certainly takes political decisions to roll this back. But it is not a question of imposing new requirements, it is a question of rolling back some of the requirements that already exist. I would like to point out to the Minister for Rural Development that there is no need to paint a conflict between ecologically and conventionally. I have full understanding and great respect for the fact that those who are buying food, whether they are private consumers or public operators, want to make high demands on the environment, animal husbandry and other things. The problem here is that one loses and forgets all the conventional production, which is far ahead in Sweden. It has become clear, among other things in a number of articles and radio spots, that it is a problem that Swedish actors in public procurement, for example, buy organic products from outside that may even be worse for the environment than the Swedish conventional ones because the municipalities have chosen to set precisely the type of goals that the Minister for Rural Development thinks is important, that is to say that they set targets for organic consumption rather than setting requirements directly in terms of the environment and animal welfare. That's what's important. If we want to ensure food products that are good for the environment and in terms of animal welfare, those are the requirements we are going to make. We should not choose to focus on a specific form of production, because the problem with it is that it does not take into account the three parts that need to be included in the concept of sustainability. It is about the environment, the economy and social issues. It is not reasonable to say that you should never be allowed to use plant protection products, I think. It must also be taken into account how much volume we can actually produce. We see that technological developments lead to the use of plant protection products in conventional cultivation going down, and it will go down even more in the future with robots that can clear weeds or spot-proof hit only the weed plants with plant protection products. This won't be a problem. The division between conventionally and ecologically becomes increasingly irrelevant, and then one wonders why the government puts so much focus on this.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-310	Mr President, I would like to It's hard to get an echo. The shelves are gaping empty, says the Minister for Rural Affairs. They shout even more empty on Swedish-produced food. Fifty-five percent we import. When we set targets for the municipalities, it should primarily be targets for the proportion of Swedish produced. Secondly, you can take eco-goals and things like that. I have great respect for the whole of Swedish agriculture, both the usual environmentally friendly and the environmentally friendly organic. But the usual accounts for over 90 percent of food production in Sweden. According to the Government, the municipalities are no longer allowed to buy more than very little food from over 90 per cent of Sweden's farmers. It doesn't make any sense. Market demand must govern absolutely, not the dictates of the state. Eko's growing, and it's okay. But Swedish food in general must also grow. The state should not lift one to the skies and put the other under the bush. The Minister for Rural Development wants to see a coordination function to promote not Swedish food but organic food production with a consumer, export and action plan. It should apply to the whole of Swedish agriculture, including organic farming. The Minister for Rural Development believes that the larger the organic farming becomes, the better environmental quality goals such as a rich agricultural landscape are met. Does the Minister for Rural Development mean that environmentally friendly Swedish agriculture does not contribute to these objectives? Does the Minister for Rural Development mean that imported organic food contributes to these objectives? The major threat to environmental quality objectives is that we are perhaps Europe's most import-food-dependent country. Food from Italy, Argentina and Thailand contributes zero to Swedish environmental quality goals. Therefore, the government and parliament should primarily focus on strengthening the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture as a whole so that it can grow in line with market demand for both the usual environmentally friendly and eco-friendly. This is how Parliament's objectives are formulated in broad agreement. How can the government depart from this in the bill that has now been submitted to Parliament?
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-317	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that we agree on the overall objectives of a food strategy. It is something that the Social Democrats have been pushing for quite a few years, but now in recent years the other parties have also felt it is good that we have a food strategy. I am pleased about that, because I think it is important for Sweden's rural areas and Swedish farmers. The fact that we now have a food strategy in place also means that we can constantly take steps forward and take decisions that actually meet the objectives we have set ourselves. What Jonas Gjörtler says in his speech is that the big problem is too much policy in this area – taxes, regulatory burdens, hassles, special requirements and so on. Of course you might think so. But what we are doing now is actually trying to revise these rules as well. We've been working on regulatory simplifications all along. So did the previous government – very successful. We're going in the same direction. An objective for organic production is something that the vast majority of municipalities and all regions or county councils throughout Sweden have today. I cannot understand why it is controversial that we should set ecological targets. I think that's good. It is, of course, a directional objective and a goal and nothing that will happen tomorrow. As the Minister for Rural Development said, it is also the case that we cannot force the municipalities or regions to do so. At home in my region, Region Kronoberg, we have in principle already reached this goal. What I think is a little fun in this discussion is that Staffan Danielsson is so evil that we have set an ecological goal. Indeed, with what you say today in the Centre Party, you are breaking the electoral promises you gave your constituents, on which you went to elections. You went to elections that you would have ecological goals for how much to procure publicly and other goals on the ecological side. Now all of a sudden you shouldn't have any such goals, because it's harmful. We need to increase organic production in Sweden. We can see that demand is increasing dramatically and cannot be met. Why should we not try to meet the requirements of consumers so that they can buy Swedish? I think that's a very strange reasoning. I believe that this will be very good and that consumers, municipalities and regions will get the goods they want. Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler also mentions that the land for organic production is so much smaller and not enough. That is quite right, but at the same time quite a few hectares have been set aside in recent years; I think it is about 600 000 hectares. On some of that land forest has been planted in itself, but there are actually more arable land that is not cultivated today. So I would like to say that we in Sweden have every opportunity to meet this objective and achieve an organic production that is much better for the environment. I think we're all valiant.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-325	Mr President, I would like to I often point out that Swedish agriculture is a world leader in environmental thinking. We are the world leader in animal health, and we are the best in the European Union in terms of using as little antibiotics as possible. We have even said that we should stimulate local production, Staffan. Mr President, I would like to We have recently presented a comprehensive action plan with 40 points. We have set aside more than a billion in the next few years for this. We have recently decided on nine points in this area, and I promise you there will be more. We're going to have a workshop and action. It is about increasing Swedish production in all stages. It is about more processing, about increasing the export of food and taking food higher in a value chain. Research and innovation are needed for this. We now see that more and more farmers are actually entering organic farming. It's no wonder, because it's better paid. It provides better profitability. The milk gets 1 crown and 40 cents more for if it is organic. For the eggs you get almost double up, and for cereals, wheat, you get more than double up. I would recommend both Staffan and Jonas to read today's ATL. It came this morning and is very fresh. The paper describes how more and more people switch to organic and profitability in Swedish agriculture for those who choose organically. But, Mr President, we also see that neighbouring countries are trying to take over the ecological in Sweden: we have very large imports. They want to get into the Swedish market more and more, not least Denmark, which is now making a huge effort on the organic. It has even received an EU project of 35 million over the next few years to increase the ecological level. The goal is to increase by 50% in three years. The government wants to take action. That is why we have money in the rural development programme to be able to switch to organic. It is important for agriculture in Sweden to become more competitive in order to be able to meet the high demand for organically. This gives good settlement prices to the farmers and strengthens Swedish agricultural profitability. Mr President, I would like to I know that Jonas wants to create better profitability for Swedish production. But why should we sit still in the boat when there is such a strong demand for Swedish organic products? Why should we import so much organic food? Aren't we supposed to be able to do this ourselves? It actually creates jobs and development in Swedish rural areas, and it creates jobs in the Swedish food industry. Even there, profitability is better when working with the organic.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-332	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Rural Affairs. The Minister for Rural Development says that it is now a workshop and many measures in progress and mentions some forty points to be implemented. I am sure that many of these measures are both good and welcome. However, the Minister for Rural Development forgets to mention that there are more measures which are also under way and which may not directly strengthen competitiveness, such as the kilometre tax, which the government intends to introduce. I think that would be directly harmful, and I very much hope that the government will reconsider this tax. Then someone might ask themselves what we in the Moderates think is important in this. Firstly, technological development is something we see as a very priority, and it is important not to lock in to a particular form of production. I mentioned earlier that new technology, for example, makes weeding possible in a completely different way. It is technology that is becoming commercially viable and a way to reduce the environmental impact further in the already relatively environmentally friendly Swedish food production. Another important point is cost-effectiveness. When the state goes in and spends money on measures, one should know that the environmental benefit is as great as possible, and that is unfortunately not the case with these measures. The problem with organically is that there is a picture that this is very good for the environment, but in the Swedish Food Administration's compilation, where you have compared studies of these different forms of production, one cannot draw such a conclusion. It turns out that in approximately 40% of cases ecologically and conventionally are equivalent. In fact, one third of the cases are better at convention, and in 26 percent of the cases ecologically speaking, three are good. In fact, 7 of the 14 ecologically important points are plant protection products, which technological developments can solve. So my answer is that we should not lock ourselves in to forms of production. We should not politically direct either production or consumption to any form of production, but instead protect the entire Swedish food production.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-337	Mr President, I would like to We will definitely increase the Swedish production. We need to do that, because today the demand for organic products exceeds what is actually grown and bred here in Sweden. It is clear that we need to increase Swedish organic production on all levels. It would be foolish to import organic food when we can actually produce it ourselves here in Sweden. By chance, I have brought the same newspaper as the Minister for Rural Development, which says that the grain product ion has actually increased by 140 per cent in Sweden. It's great, and then we can sell as much organic Swedish as we need. Today, consumers as well as municipalities and regions are asking for ecologically, and as I said in my previous speech, most municipalities, regions and county councils have objectives for this. Of course they want to buy Swedish organic. Today doesn't work, because there's no access to it. When you set goals like this, you are forced to buy foreign ones, and we are not going to do that. That's one of the reasons we're setting this target. I would like to come back to Staffan Danielsson. When you went to elections, you said you would have targets for organic production and for organic consumption in the public sector. It is apparently completely gone since the food strategy was presented; now it is no longer important. I think you're letting your constituents down there.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-341	Mr President, I would like to One cannot turn a blind eye to reality: demand for organic farming in our country is far greater than production. There is a great lack of many organic foods. Today, those shelves are filled very much with imports. There is a shortage of Swedish Obliged Eggs. There is a shortage of milk, pork, organic chicken, certain vegetables and beef. There are enormous opportunities here for Swedish farmers. Studies from the Swedish grocery trade show that organic food has gone from a temporary trend to a natural part of people's purchasing decisions. More and more people are buying organically, and it is growing throughout the country. It's not about one being better than the other. It is a question of some customers asking for certain products. It is about better profitability for agriculture and the food industry and not least more jobs in Swedish rural areas. Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased that we have a broad agreement in the Swedish Parliament on the long-term objectives and strategic areas. This gives the industry clear signals as to where the policy stands. Now it is about implementing this long-term: by 2030. It's a long journey that we've just begun. Much work is needed before we arrive, but the path is clear and the objectives are clear. We will increase Swedish food production, both conventional organic production and locally produced. Thank you for a good debate!
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-347	Mr President, I would like to Helena Bouveng has asked Magdalena Andersson what initiatives she is prepared to take in her area of responsibility in the government to facilitate the emergence of more simple jobs, similar to the domestic services that were initially covered by the RUT deduction. The question has been left to me. I have a specific mission from the Prime Minister to facilitate more simple jobs and easier ways to work in the business world. Growth leads to increased demand for labour with both higher and lower qualifications. The Government's industrial policy therefore aims to strengthen the conditions for more companies to create, grow and export. The government's goal is to reach the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. With 150 000 more jobs since the elections and an unemployment rate that has been pushed below 7 per cent, Sweden is heading in the right direction. Although Sweden has the lowest long-term unemployment rate in Europe, it is too high for people with short education and low qualifications. I share Helena Bouveng's view that there is a need for simple jobs, especially for older people who lack longer education. There is also a need for simpler ways to work for people who are far from the labour market. In order to increase the conditions for groups that traditionally have difficulties in the labour market, such as new arrivals and people who have been out of work for a long time, the government is taking a number of measures. Among other things, the government has improved additional services in welfare and expanded them to include new arrivals. In addition, 5 000 modern standby jobs are made possible in the state authorities. In order to simplify employment support and make it more accurate, a review is ongoing within the Government Office. In December 2016, the Government commissioned the Swedish Agency for Growth to promote models that aim to increase employers' tendency to hire new arrivals and people who have been out of work for a long time. This could, for example, involve models where intermediaries take employer responsibility. A growing challenge in the labour market is the employment of women born abroad. The Government has commissioned the Employment Service to take measures to reduce unemployment and increase employment among women born abroad. The Government also reviews parental insurance in order that it should not become a trap for women who come to Sweden with children. The extension of RUT to gardening, floating and IT services is an example of a change that is deemed to contribute to more simple jobs. According to the Swedish Tax Agency's data, the average deduction for RUT services is among those who make use of the deduction of approximately SEK 5 000 per year. Few people buy so much services that they run the risk of reaching $25,000 a year and hitting the ceiling. Instead, the data indicates that the use of the RUT deduction today is the highest ever. Continued work to repress unemployment in Sweden is one of the government's most prioritised areas.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-355	Mr President, I would like to The areas where the RUT deduction is possible have been broadened over the past year. It is now possible, as the Minister for Economic Affairs mentioned, to deduct, among other things, floating and certain IT services. Part of the enlargement is part of the so-called refugee agreement, which the alliance parties concluded together with the Red Green Government. In addition to its extension, a number of additional services covered by the RUT deduction have been added, such as the repair of white goods, IT consulting and floating services. We can see that only floating services accounted for nearly 10 per cent of RUT deductions in 2016. This is good so far, but at the same time as this extension of services within the RUT deduction took place, the Red-Green Government took the opportunity to halve the ceiling for the RUT deduction from SEK 50 000 per person per year to SEK 25 000 per person per year. This means that more companies and more service types will compete for a reduced pot. One of the most important contributions of the RUT reform when introduced by the Alliance government was that many of those who were far removed from the labour market, not infrequently foreign-born women with short or unfinished education, found their way into the labour market. They got their first job in their new home country. The government's halving of the RUT deduction means not only that more companies and more services compete with each other for a smaller pot at the buyer but also that, for example, the foreign-born woman, often with a low level of training in the luggage, competes with home appliances repairers and IT consultants. White goods repairers and IT consultants cannot be seen as either unskilled or without work experience. On the contrary, they should have a pretty good opportunity to get a job even without the help of the state. There are currently 120 000 foreign-borns enrolled in the Employment Service who do not have completed upper secondary school education. Half of them also lack primary education. They are far from being able to repair a refrigerator or, let alone, offer IT consulting. Why does the Minister for Economic Affairs, who recognises in his reply that there is actually a need for more simple jobs, choose paradoxically to halve the RUT deduction while including more services that certainly do not allow the now 120 000 foreign-born who are enrolled in the Employment Service to get their first job? Most recently today, Magdalena Andersson and Stefan Löfven stated that there is a need for more simple ways into the labour market for not least foreign-born women. Is not work in the RUT sector just such a road as the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance are writing about today?
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-360	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the interpellation, Helena Bouveng! It is an important discussion on how to combat unemployment most effectively and how to get groups that are also far removed from the labour market to step in. It is true that the government has extended the RUT deduction, so that more different areas are affected by it today. The trends we have seen are that with this enlargement the use is increasing, which indicates that this change has had an effect. The effect is also that we made a politically justified adjustment to the ceiling. We know that very few consumers, customers or households are actually hitting the ceiling today. We then made a downward adjustment for distribution policy reasons but excluded pensioners, who we believe are more in need of this type of service and should not therefore run the risk of getting close to the ceiling. The exception for pensioners was therefore also made for distribution policy reasons. I don't really understand the logic here. I thought we would discuss simple jobs in general, but now it sounds as if the Moderates are hesitant as to whether IT services in the home or the renovation of white goods should remain within the RUT system. Is that the proposal? That would be a little different. I haven't heard that before. I think it is a good thing that RUT has been broadened with more services. Experience so far– it is possible that this will change completely in a short time– is that this has a rather small scope and that not least the market for renovating appliances is very small today. It's very rare today. However, there is an ecological effect of actually taking advantage of products and making sure they last longer rather than just tearing and throwing away. Even though we know that newer freezers and fridges are more efficient, it is also about taking advantage of the products you have at home in a smarter way. I can agree that IT services in the home may require a little higher technical skills. On the other hand, I believe that many households today have been panicked that all technical equipment cannot be properly handled. This is a support for democratising in some way, so that you can get the help and support you need in households where you have difficulties with the technical and with digitalisation. This can then be a service that, like cleaning, could make life easier and also reduce the stress of not getting the technology at home to work. We struck the balance that this could be good. We also made a distributional adjustment to the RUT deduction. Overall, the effect is that we probably never had more people using the RUT deduction than now, which would then be something positive. However, I think it is dangerous to say that we can solve the whole situation that Sweden has with this type of service or job. We know that those who have come to Sweden in recent times and those who have lived their whole life in Sweden have different conditions. The large watershed in the Swedish labour market still runs between those who have education and those who lack education and between those who know the Swedish language and those who do not know the Swedish language. Education and knowledge are the main route into the Swedish labour market. Therefore, I am a little worried about the signal that the Moderates are now sending: that they want to create a huge low-wage sector in Sweden. It is also a strange signal not least to all relatively young people who today do not have an education. Instead of completing their education and thus getting good chances, good jobs and a better life's income, they should skip it. Insecure employment conditions are created for those groups in particular. I do not think it is a successful economic or business policy in the long term. I think it must be seen that these are two different challenges.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-368	Mr President, I would like to We fully agree with the Minister for Economic Affairs that education is incredibly important. And we have nothing against enlargement, but, contrary to the government, we are tripling instead of halving the RUT deduction. What I'm worried about is not that the use of RUT services is increasing. But the question is whether it meets those who really need the job most. In his reply, the Minister for Economic Affairs says that growth leads to increased demand for workers with both higher and lower qualifications. That is certainly true. New jobs, mainly in the service sector, requiring more limited training, are growing but not as much as other jobs with similar skills requirements are disappearing. SCB's forecast shows that demand for post-secondary education falls by almost 40 per cent by 2035. The Public Employment Service's forecast manager recently stated that the challenge is greater than ever and that we have never been close to the composition of unemployment that we are seeing today. Arbetsförmedlingen together with the Entrepreneurs, Enterprise Tax Delegation, Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and others are also strongly critical of the halving of the RUT deduction. In an interview in Ekot, the Director-General of the Employment Service expressed himself in the following way: It is simply a risk that some families, some people, will hit the ceiling of SEK 25 000 and therefore not demand services as much as they would if the ceiling were 50 000 SEK. Not least, rehabilitation is important for people far from the labour market. He continues: We have to work with various types of proposals that create jobs that suit people a little further away from the labour market, and according to our assessment, many RUT services of such kind are suitable for this particular group. If the Minister for Economic Affairs has now been given the specific task by the Prime Minister to facilitate more simple jobs, I wonder: Is it not time to listen to his own authority and hear what reforms actually lead to more people getting their first job? The extra services can't even the Minister for Economic Affairs say has been a success story – neither have the trainee services. In a question time, your employer, Stefan Löfven, said: I almost don't care which, only people get jobs on fair terms. I do what it takes to get people to work. Can one say that the red-green government really does what is required when choosing to halve the RUT deduction, which according to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise could have led to another 16 000 new jobs? There are 16 000 new jobs that are self-financed – compared to the 4 019 places for young people and the long-term unemployed that the government has so far managed and which are not self-financed. RUT services are real jobs with fair terms.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-374	Mr President, I would like to I can only say that we have made changes to the RUT system, which means that the RUT system has never been bigger than today and thus creates jobs for many who previously did not get a job. But we can look at whether it's a limitation. We can look at how many households are actually hitting the ceiling. That's about 9 000 households – that's what we're talking about now. This would prevent 16,000 new jobs. Should the 9,000 hire two more each? Of course, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has to account for its calculations; they certainly have an interest in pushing this forward. However, we can only conclude that we have made changes to the system. I have no problem discussing RUT with the Moderates. I'm doing it now, and I've done it before. But it will be too one-way, because a RUT system cannot be the only way into the Swedish labour market. Take the extra services, which the Moderates rumble all the time! We have just changed the system of additional services, which allows, not least, schooling, childcare and care for the elderly to take in a burden-bearing person. Imagine a preschool where many children with other cultures and languages have come! There you can bring in a person who is not a trained child nurse or preschool teacher but who can still help with the social, with the language and with providing security to the children who have come to Sweden. I think it is a smart investment from society to give those opportunities for people to come in, help and relieve the staff in preschool or in school while at the same time giving the children who have come to Sweden an increased security. It's a big bet. I'm sure it'll be a success. After these changes, municipalities are given the opportunity to work more creatively. Then we take two major challenges – it's about unemployment and the needs of the newcomers – and make an opportunity of them and give these people an experience of the Swedish labour market. They can learn the language and develop in a workplace. I think it's hugely important. But the welfare sector is never in the Moderate story of how to give people opportunities. I think you think too unilaterally, and you think too little about education policy. I've heard what you said. You want to create 150 000 new low-wage jobs in the coming years in Sweden. I think it is a dangerous strategy when we know that most jobs that will emerge are jobs that require upper secondary education. Then it is important that not least young people in Sweden receive a very clear signal that they will pass their education. You should finish high school, because then you get a job, and then you can control your own life and get an income that allows you to live a good life in our country. It is not the focus of this debate, but it will be very one-sided that the 9 000 households that have hit the ceiling for the RUT system would solve all our problems in Sweden. It is not that simple, although I have de facto been involved in extending the RUT system and ensuring that it is more extensive than before.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-381	Mr President, I would like to As far as education is concerned, we are in complete agreement. We don't have to have that conflict right now. No, I don't think the RUT jobs are the only way, but I think they are part of it, especially when we have a lot of enrolled people who have a very low level of education and who are also not purunga. I can also say that the RUT deduction has given 20 000 new jobs. There are 20 000 jobs that did not exist before. An extra service in Stockholm has so far led to one, if I do not remember completely wrong. The Minister for Industry says that the Government's industrial policy aims to strengthen the conditions for more companies to create jobs, grow and export. It is a government that at the same time raises taxes by just over SEK 39 billion in 2017, and more is to be expected. Between 70 and 90 percent of these are hitting jobs and growth directly. The government's efforts in its industrial policy are negligible compared to the increased taxes. For every crown the government invests in business, the tax on jobs and growth is increased by SEK 10. According to the Institute of Economic Development, the government's overall proposal leads to a reduction of at least 15,000 people in labour force participation. The government itself chooses not to account for any employment effects of its policies, which is also criticised by the Council of Finance Policy. Why does the government choose to underestimate the negative employment effects of the policies pursued? Why not reassess the decision to halve the RUT deduction so that more people get their first job? What is the worst thing that can happen, Mikael Damberg, if a triple RUT deduction is introduced, which we want to introduce? Is it that the 9 000 customers who are actually hitting the ceiling today would provide jobs for more people?
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-385	Mr President, I would like to I note that nutrition policy seems to be working quite well, because we have 150 000 more people going to work every day. Of the 150,000 new jobs, 96,000 are in the private sector. If you look at what it's like for foreign-borns in these 150,000 jobs, you can see that the majority of jobs have gone to foreign-borns in recent years. In some way, then, this seems to have an effect. It may provoke the Moderates that we have taken unemployment from a level that was somewhere at 8% to a level below 7% and that we will continue to do so. We can look at the eight years that the Moderates led the government. Unemployment for people born abroad rose by nearly 25 per cent during your time. The unemployment rate for non-European births rose by 11 percentage points. Both groups have now seen a reduction in unemployment. I'm not happy with that. More will have to be done. Our priority in the government is to work both with an active business policy to get more employed and with a smarter labour market policy and an education policy that leads to us fighting unemployment. More will have to be done. We're on with that work. However, I believe that the Moderates must broaden their eyes and not just look at the RUT system. We have made some efforts to broaden the system, but that is not the answer to all the major questions of our time.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-389	Mr President, I would like to Ali Esbati has asked me whether I intend to come back with concrete ownership directives or take other measures to ensure that Postnord AB imposes conditions in accordance with collective agreements at all stages of its procurement. Postnord AB has been jointly owned by the Swedish and Danish States since 2009. State-owned companies are subject to the same laws and rules as privately owned companies and must compete on equal terms. Good terms and conditions of employment shall apply to all persons working in Sweden. According to the State's ownership policy, state-owned companies must act in an exemplary manner in the area of sustainable entrepreneurship and otherwise act in such a way that they enjoy public confidence. The companies shall also ensure that there is no abuse of the special position which may result from being a company with State ownership, inter alia by applying reasonable conditions in relation to customers and suppliers. For the state as owner, it is of particular importance that state-owned companies work for a healthy and safe working environment, respect for human rights and good and decent working conditions. The companies are expected to work actively towards compliance with international guidelines, which includes the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the Global Compact. These are based, inter alia, on the core ILO conventions, which deal with freedom of association and the right to organise and negotiate collectively. In 2015, the Swedish Ministry of Enterprise and Industry carried out a sustainability analysis of Postnord AB, which identified purchases of transport as an area in which the company needed to strengthen its ongoing work. This was communicated to the company's Board of Directors, which subsequently decided in autumn 2015 on a new strategic goal for sustainable entrepreneurship regarding responsible supplier management. The sustainability analysis and the Board's strategic goals for sustainable entrepreneurship are continuously followed up in the dialogue with the owner. Postnord has also strengthened its work on the purchase of transport services with, among other things, an updated code of conduct and expanded audits to ensure that the company acts exemplaryly in its supplier work. I will continue to pursue these important issues in dialogue with Postnord AB. There should be order and order in the Swedish labour market. The government has put forward a series of proposals for order in the transport sector. Among other things, the Government is investing SEK 100 million to enable the police to develop and increase controls on compliance with EU law on cabotage transport.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-394	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mikael Damberg, for your answer! Unfortunately, it was not quite as clear as I had wished, and I think that is a feeling shared by many not only in the Postnord but in the industry at all, which for a long time has warned against a vicious spiral downwards in terms of wages and working conditions. I think that the answer is in principle the same as Mikael Damberg gave to Svenska Dagbladet in January: On the other hand, there is an additional requirement for state-owned companies to act exemplaryly. ..................................................... That is, of course, correct in substance, but the question is whether it is an adequate expression of the political will of a Social Democratic-led government. Perhaps that is a more interesting question in this context. This is really at two levels: firstly, and perhaps most importantly, the general situation in the haulage industry and what the state is doing to combat social dumping and a race to the bottom, and secondly, what a major state player, in this case Postnord, plays and can play a role in this development. The Minister refers to the state's ownership policy today and that, as he says, companies with state ownership should be exemplary in the area of sustainable entrepreneurship and otherwise act in such a way that they enjoy public confidence. This is, if we're going to be completely honest, pretty fluffy. More specifically, it is about how to manage part of your core business, i.e. to transport things, and it is about whether you make requirements for basic reasonable working conditions when you spend driving on subcontractors. The media review has shown that this has not always been done, and I think there have been some rather ominous comments from the executive management when asked about it. It is precisely against this background that I have put my interpellation. The question was therefore whether the Government should come back with concrete ownership directives or take other measures for Postnord to impose conditions in accordance with collective agreements at all stages of its procurements. If you are to have a yardstick for what is reasonable wage levels in the Swedish labour market, it is after all collective agreements that must be that yardstick. It is not a question of whether there is competition or not, but of the rules governing that competition – that is, a limit to the extent to which this competition can be pursued at the expense of drivers' wages and working conditions. This is basically the same debate that has been held on the terms of collective agreements in public procurement. There, the government, together with the Left Party, has pushed the line that there should be demands on working conditions that are in accordance with collective agreements in such procurements so that one cannot compete with social dumping. We know that Postnord is a company that, much because of a rather dubious handling during the previous government, has some financial problems. If I understood correctly, Mikael Damberg has been talking about it today in the Committee on Economic Affairs. That is why I think it is particularly important for the signal and the steering to be clear. Should different approaches be taken that are proper to sort out the situation within the company, it should not be done by pressing wages and working conditions further out into the supply chain, if one now insists on not doing things in its own direction. I therefore return to the question: Is it correct to understand that what Mikael Damberg says is that nothing should be done with the ownership directives as an instrument? If that is the case, the Minister can develop this and perhaps at least say what this updated code of conduct means so that you can hear if it is as fluffy as it sounds or if it is more concrete.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-404	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister Damberg, for your answer. This interpellation and the answer to it is about the very serious situation in Swedish haulage industry. We know that on Swedish roads there are lorries where drivers drive to completely poor wages, a few thousand a month. We know that many people are being used hard and, in practice, they are not legal. They do not dare to organize themselves in trade unions, and they do not meet their families for a long time. We know that companies that drive this development systematically abuse foreign agencies, that they do not conclude collective agreements and that they sometimes violate laws or at least push them to the absolute extreme. This is a situation where drivers are exploited, Swedish jobs in the haulage industry are knocked out in unsound and unsound competition and good Swedish companies are being knocked out by this kind of wild west in the haulage industry. So there is every reason to act and to be very clear. So it is such a disappointment to hear this answer. It is rather elegant but still a display in ambiguities and evasiveness. That is what it is: it is actually simply said that it is possible to continue as it is today. Had I been in Postnord's leadership and listened to this debate – and surely someone from Postnord will do so – I would have felt that yes, we could continue as before. There are no major demands here that you should behave in a different way. I would have liked Mikael Damberg to say this: As a minister in the Swedish Government, I expect state companies to demand collective agreements or collective agreements when they procure jobs in Sweden. That is the only reasonable message, and I would like Mikael Damberg to make that statement during this debate. Something else would be to say no, but, you can slide a little under the radar and do some as you like. It is true that we want order in the haulage industry. It is good that the Minister is raising the emphasis on the traffic police; we had to negotiate it from the Left Party. We think it is a good initiative that we have got the government on. But to be honest: much more needs to be done, and what we need above all, in addition to customer responsibility – and this shows that it is needed – is what is called the Dutch model. That is, normally when you drive for haulage companies in Sweden you are employed by these haulage companies. I mean that is the most important part of a solution here. There's a problem. It is a bit like child rearing, namely that what you do sends a message to others. If it is okay for government companies to exploit drivers with bad conditions, why should a private company feel the pressure to make demands in procurement? That is why it is so important for the state to set an example when running a business. When this question came out and became mediated, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven was clear. He showed his indignation and said something had to be done. I can't quite tell from the answer how to deal with Postnord's procurements. I'd be happy to clarify that. When you add this issue together with another partly state-owned company such as SAS actively moving out jobs when the company expands to bases abroad, with the stated aim of avoiding Swedish taxation and collective agreements, even if the company has Spanish or Irish collective agreements, it is concerned that the state as owner does not set down its foot and says that the state expects work originating from Sweden to be subject to Swedish collective agreements.
i-SjjbFUsBvZBaC5iaYA9jY1	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ali Esbati, for an important interpellation! The transport sector has been characterised by both unfair competition, pressure on social conditions, and a spiral downwards in recent years. It happens in two ways. Just as Jonas Sjöstedt pointed out in the debate, this affects both the people who come to Sweden and are exploited on Swedish roads, who do not get their breaks, do not get proper housing, do not get the salary they are entitled to, and the Swedish serious companies that have difficulty coping with the competition and being knocked out, i.e. it hits against Swedish jobs in an unsound way. That is why this is an important interpellation. I really want to point out that corporate governance is a bit formal and square. The political will may not be as clear as Jonas Sjöstedt calls for. But for us it is obvious that the basis for the Swedish model is a collective agreement. They are the ones who are supporting the Swedish wage model. It's incredibly important to defend. Sustainability analyses may sound a bit boring and fluffy, but we do sustainability analyses with each company. We look at what the biggest risks are in that particular company's operations. When we did such an analysis of Postnord 2015, we pointed out that subcontractors were precisely the greatest risk with Postnord's operations. We gave a mandate back. It is the Board that is responsible for the operation. We felt that they had to deal with the issues and work in a more serious way because we were not satisfied. The company has developed the strategies, codes, audit and follow-up, which the company has started to implement. After the revelations that Transport has made, Postnord has been clear about reviewing the companies that are being pointed out. Some of this is not just a matter of collective agreements, it is a matter of pure violations of the law. The question is what relationship Postnord should have with companies that occur here. There Postnord is now making a serious check. I feel a political will on this issue, and I think we should work on the issues – although we cannot believe that Postnord as a company itself will change the whole transport sector. It's not that simple either. We need to work on political methods to steer the sector and move forward. There, the government, in cooperation with the Left Party, has made several efforts to enable the police to enforce the legislation that is in place today, which has not been properly controlled, with complaints and damages from those who violate the rules. There is a wide range of measures that need to be taken and which are important in order to steer the system. But this well said – then you can interpret this how you want – you can get the impression in the media that all activities in Postnord are not governed by collective agreements. It's not like that. The company tells me that 95% of all operations in Sweden are subject to Swedish collective agreements. For domestic traffic, it's 99%. It is reasonable for Denmark to have Danish collective agreements and so on in other countries. Then you can go between countries. It is the international transport that enters Sweden that is defined in a slightly different way and where there are not collective agreements in the same way as in the other operations. That is what is now being controlled, not least after the revelations that things are happening that violate the code that exists. We do not take this issue lightly, and we will continue to pursue it in an active ownership dialogue. I want Postnord to be an example – also in a difficult industry such as the transport sector.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-423	Mr President, I would like to Let's resume an interrupted interpellation debate. What we talked about before the break was that the question is bigger than Postnord. It sometimes gets a little abstract when you say that working conditions can be dumped in the transport industry. It can lead to quite serious things for the people involved. For example, I read an interview with a Romanian driver who was in custody in Borås. He had committed a serious crime, that is to say, he was drunk at some point before Christmas, and of course he should be responsible for that. It was good that he was arrested and now he has to pay for his crime. During the interview with the Romanian driver there are some things that stand out. He was driving for DHL, and he was asked how he got this job. He answers that he found it on the Internet and started working for this truck owner on December 1st. The truck owner has three cars that drive on Sweden and works in Denmark. When asked who is the manager, he answers that it is a Romanian who is in Denmark or is the company in Malta. The Romanian driver doesn't know, because he has a contract with DHL. DHL is now mainly State owned in Germany. These are the conditions that you have to contend with in the industry. I am, of course, aware that stricter ownership directives or other requirements for Postnord in Sweden do not solve this issue. But we also have a lot of other suggestions that are probably important to look at. The Minister has mentioned this with cabotage and the police's ability to do more in this area. That's good. Some of the things that we have lifted and that it is important to continue to think about are, for example, whether you can introduce a stricter customer responsibility so that the client has a clearer responsibility for what happens down the chain. You should not be able to get rid of the responsibility just because you refer to the subcontractor and say that you have control of your cars, but if it is others who run the business it will not be so good. In Holland, a model has been applied that has been discussed if it is compatible with EU law or not. However, you also have the model that in practice requires the staff to drive the haulage company's own trucks. This will make it impossible to blame for the fact that it is about self-employed people and so on. Generally speaking, we have problems in some of these sectors of self-employed workers who are on paper self-employed but who have to take all the risk. Then these people can end up in very difficult situations without the opportunity to make demands on their own salary. In this industry, safety is very quickly compromised if working conditions are poor. We have highlighted the issue of open and transparent registers of all those working in the transport sector. There is also something important to look at. But it does not come from the fact that the state has an important role to play in this business. It is an industry that desperately needs more to be done than is happening today.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-432	Mr President, I would like to I just want to acknowledge what Ali Esbati said about the state having an important responsibility, both in the form of owners or shareholders of state-owned companies, to act exemplaryly and in the form of legislation here at home and in Europe. Like Ali Esbati, we have done some things together in government. This is about the police's ability to increase control, something that has been neglected for many years. We have introduced clamping and the fee of SEK 40 000 for cabotage offences. In addition, the Swedish Transport Agency, on behalf of the Government, investigates the question of current regulation of customer responsibility, whether it creates sufficient conditions for order and order in the transport industry. The issue must be pursued at European level, and so do we. We expect the European Commission to present proposals in this area in 2017. Sweden is the country that is pushing that the rules need to be amended for cabotage so that they can be of a temporary nature, but also that they can be coordinated with the rules on combined transport. I do not know every detail of this because it is not my formal responsibility. But we're trying to work more together. It is important now that I am discussing Postnord's responsibility that I also bring these issues into the discussion. I can see that the journalists do not want to talk about it, but that is a bigger question. In the case of Postnord, some ten audits will be carried out during this year, 2017. The audits run for five days and will be carried out by an external certified auditor. Then you can look at delivery agreements, code of conduct, site visits, interviews with the management. There will be about a hundred on-site audits covering two days and will include monitoring of the terms and conditions. You will also look at credit rating and such. It is another issue, but it still plays a certain role. What is also interesting is that, on the basis of the information obtained, Postnord will carry out specific checks on the companies identified. Speaking of this with submitting further assignments, Postnord today has rules that say that you should not be able to do so to another subcontractor without requiring written approval from Postnord. Postnord is a large company and a large employer, and it has just begun to roll out the new guidelines. I hope that it will produce results, and I can guarantee that I will raise this at every ownership meeting I have with Postnord. I believe that Postnord can act as an example and show that it is possible to conduct a good, serious business. But I am well aware that Postnord cannot solve the challenges of the entire industry. We must do this politically both here at home and in Europe.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-440	Mr President, I would like to I think the written answer was a bit fluffy, but it is very good that the answer has now become more precise in this discussion. It concerns the government's political ambitions and intentions in this area and also its willingness to remain at the heart of the EU. There are a lot of things that are governed by directives, you can think what you want, but now that is the case. The signals I have now seen that the Minister has been willing to give have sometimes shone through in the media debate. It then requires follow-up in order for something to happen in this area in real life. Then, of course, as we have been talking about, we agree that a company cannot solve these problems itself, remember that. The trade unions, who have been very involved in developing this, also underline that they are not interested in nailing Postnord specifically. They are interested in the industry getting decent and sensible working conditions so that you can keep good jobs no matter who is driving. Since we have come further with collective agreements, with safety thinking and not least with attempts at climate adaptation in Sweden, it is of course a loss if Swedish jobs in this area are lost and we get a situation where people drive under incredibly bad conditions, whether they come from Romania, the Baltics or Sweden.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-444	Mr President, I would like to In fact, I have nothing to add after the last speech. I subscribe to every word that was said and can guarantee that we will continue to monitor this. In addition to these challenges, Postnord also has problems with delivery quality and also has economic challenges that have to do with Danish operations. However, this does not mean that we can relax in this area. We will continue to lie down and we take this issue very seriously.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-446	Mr President, I would like to Helena Bouveng has asked me what measures I intend to take within my political remit to increase the entrepreneurial activity of women. Women's entrepreneurship is a strategic growth issue, and the government considers it important that more women run businesses. A diversity of companies and entrepreneurs is important for business competitiveness, innovation and sustainability. The Government therefore pursues an active business policy that aims to ensure that companies and entrepreneurs have good opportunities to start, grow, export and employ. The 2015 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor rightly showed that women's entrepreneurial activity had declined. However, the 2016 edition shows that Sweden has recovered and is in line with other comparable EU countries due to an increase in women's entrepreneurial activity. The report states that Sweden is consolidating its position as the leading entrepreneurial country in the Nordic region. Women and men run companies in all sectors but on a slightly different scale. As regards the RUT deduction, the government has extended the deduction to more services, and data from the Swedish Tax Agency indicates, among other things, that the use of the RUT deduction today is the highest ever. The number of RUT companies has also increased since 2015 and is now above 2014 levels. In terms of entrepreneurship in the welfare sector, it is the government's starting point that both users and performers benefit from clear rules. The proposal submitted by the Welfare Investigation is for referral and will continue to be prepared in the Government Office. The Government wants to ensure that decisions in all policy areas are characterised by a gender perspective. This also applies to industrial policy. Therefore, we will continue to work with an active business policy to strengthen and improve the conditions for starting and running companies in Sweden. The Government is committed to ensuring that public business promotion resources are available to everyone on equal terms, regardless of gender, age, ethnic background, industry or where the company is based in the country. Utilising the skills, entrepreneurship and experience of the entire population is needed to maximise Sweden's competitiveness.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-452	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is in many respects one of the world's most equal countries. We have generous parental insurance and a well-developed childcare system that provides the opportunity for parents to take a large responsibility for children and at the same time to work. Swedish women work to a large extent during early childhood years, and men are also on parental leave. That's good. At least this is true in some parts of the country – not so much at home in Vetlanda. However, both the Minister for Economic Affairs and I know that a great deal remains before society and working life are equal. Women continue to take greater responsibility for unpaid domestic work and to a greater extent are on parental leave and sick leave, which contributes to inequality in everyday life and in their wallets. One might then ask why the red-green feminist government chooses to remove the so-called gender equality bonus. The red - green government has appointed itself a feminist government, and it claims to have an equal focus in everything it does. I think it is a good ambition, but of course I wonder how it actually succeeds. For gender equality, the Minister for Economic Affairs, is about more than adding as many women as male ministers and quotas to company boards or feminist snow clearance for that matter – I just had to bring up that last one. It is also a question of self-sufficiency, being able to live on their wages, being able to choose their employers and having the freedom to start their own businesses. Mr President, I would like to The government calls itself feminist and is not late in highlighting in many contexts different rankings for how well it is going for Sweden. I think that's good. You're supposed to brag about your own country. With this in mind, entrepreneurial activities for women should also flourish. According to the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor 2015, the entrepreneurial activity, measured as the proportion of Swedes involved in starting new operations, has fallen from 8.2 percent to 6.7 percent in just one year, although the figures now look a little better. This broke an upward trend that started when the alliance government took office in 2006 and resulted in Sweden doubling its entrepreneurial activity until 2013. Particularly remarkable is the decline in women's entrepreneurship, which fell from 6.2 to 3.8 per cent. The statistics show a very negative development of female entrepreneurship, and it has gone fast. Is it possible to call itself a feminist government when, in several areas, policies risk driving the development of women's entrepreneurship further in a negative direction? Is the Minister for Economic Affairs satisfied that women's entrepreneurship has fallen from 6.2 per cent to 3.8 per cent? Does the Minister of Economic Affairs think that the so-called feminist government is pursuing a policy that promotes women's entrepreneurship?
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-458	Mr President, I would like to I thought the debate started so well with a general discussion on gender equality and on which structures hold back women. In my answer I told you about what it looked like in 2016. But the interpellant goes back to 2015. Can't we have a discussion about the latest statistics? The 2016 figures show that female entrepreneurship increased significantly. It is rather women's entrepreneurship that draws the entrepreneurship increase in the 2016 survey for the whole of Sweden. I don't mean that the figures were wrong in 2015, but you have to bring 2016 too. If, for example, we only took 2016 we could boast again and say that it is not a problem, but the figures are great and we have a huge increase, which shows that Sweden is once again consolidating itself as one of the countries that has the strongest entrepreneurial position in at least our part of Europe. For example, the female enterprise ratio is higher. However, it will be a little strange to have a debate on such a weak statistical background. It feels like we are not really in favour of a gender equality discussion, but are just trying to get to the government or whatever it may be. I really think we should have a discussion about what is holding back gender equality today. Let me begin by reflecting somewhat on the structural obstacles that exist. I share the view that the most important thing for increasing equality is that women get their own employment, their own job and their own income so that they have the freedom to make their own choices. In Sweden we have done exceptionally well with this. We have a higher employment rate for women than almost any other country. This is the reason why women have a great deal of freedom in Sweden. If we look at what led to this, we can see that it was part of the reforms mentioned earlier. It is a question of special taxation, the expansion of both childcare and care for the elderly, as well as the reform of parental insurance and family policy as a whole. All of this has made it possible to combine work with childbirth and family life and that women have been able to be on the labour market as either entrepreneurs or employees. The problem is that the Moderates have been opposed to all these strategic gender equality reforms. I was asked why we removed the equality bonus. Because it didn't work. It had no effect. On the other hand, as far as parental insurance is concerned, we know that research support is available to ensure that an additional weight month is effective so that withdrawals are equal. We have also seen that there will be greater equality in the labour market. This is what we want to get at. Women should be allowed to keep up with wage developments and be able to have the same security in the labour market in order to develop and thus receive a pension. Every time we discuss an important gender equality issue, the Moderates end up on the wrong side of the debate, and so on. There are also a few details about company boards, among other things. However, equal company boards are part of how to level out the conditions between men and women in order to take advantage of the entire competence of the population. When it comes to entrepreneurship, we see that we still have the potential to work with female entrepreneurship. What if it was as common among women to run businesses as it is among men? Men run 220 000 more companies than women. There is a huge potential for society to seize. I hope we can discuss this even more. But then maybe we should base the discussion on the latest statistics and not the one that came a few years ago.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-469	Mr President, I would like to Now I'm going to surprise the Minister for Enterprise. I don't think the worst thing that could have happened would have been that we had another weight father month, a third one. I have no problem with that, and there is absolutely something to it. I also believe that freedom of choice versus equality is an important issue. The question is, in fact, what to do with taxpayers' money. I can be at home with my child forever, but I may not want to prioritise it with taxpayers' money. So for me this would not have been a disaster. Yes, we have a high employment rate among women. Yet we can see that we do not have a single partner in business law firms. After all, we have very few female entrepreneurs who reach all the way through. The fact that the withdrawal of sick days above all looks so uneven between men and women, I think, is one of the many obstacles that makes women not reach all the way forward and not able to cope, dare and can invest in either a top job or their own company. In an international perspective, Sweden has low female entrepreneurship. If I am not completely misinformed, less than 5% of working women are entrepreneurs. That's about half as much as in the United States. It doesn't look very good. When the alliance government took office, opportunities were opened up to start businesses offering education and welfare services to a much greater extent than in the past, which also led to the creation of women entrepreneurs. According to SCB, over half of the entrepreneurs in health care and education are women. It is comparable to the fact that barely 5% of entrepreneurs in the construction sector are women. We have a fragmented corporate market. Three-quarters of those working in welfare are women. It is women who, like men, want to be able to change employers, make careers and get their salaries up. The government now wants to break down the labour market by means of a profit ban in welfare. For me and other women that signal should be quite clear. The red-green government simply does not like entrepreneurship in women-dominated industries, especially if the ambition is for companies to go well, develop, expand and hire more. When I'm out meeting women who are thinking about moving from employment to entrepreneurship or from unemployment to starting their own business, I hear that they feel incredibly uncertain about whether they should actually dare to take the step. One does not really know what the current government wants or whether there is an aversion on the part of the government to more companies being set up in their traditional industries. You can think about it what you want, but you feel that it is a political world where fewer women want to and dare to start a business. That is why I wonder whether a feminist government can be called, while at the same time putting a brake on both women's entrepreneurship and women's opportunities for alternative employers. Can the Minister of Economic Affairs understand that potential female entrepreneurs hesitate to start their own business? Is it strange that many women feel that the red-green government has strong resistance to entrepreneurship in female dominant industries?
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-475	Mr President, I would like to I am proud to be part of the world's first feminist government. This puts a mark on both our economic policy at home and our international action. In today's world, role models are needed. There is a need for countries that go ahead and dare to pursue gender equality and feminist issues in the world in which we live. Helena Bouveng talks about taxpayers' money. That is right – in some way gender equality policy must be based on an analysis of what priorities are being set. I find it very interesting to look at what the distribution profile and outcome between men and women looked like in the budgets of the eight bourgeois government years. The outcome was consistent that it was men who earned the most from the bourgeois budgets. It was mainly because of how you had targeted the tax cuts. They went more to men than to women. Now we've got this under control. An analysis of the red-green budgets that have been presented shows that it is quite the opposite. They benefit women at the expense of men, because we are doing another distribution policy analysis. When it comes to how we use taxpayers' money, we think it is reasonable for women to benefit from budgets. There will be a huge difference with a feminist government, which makes these analyses and makes sure to influence the proposals, so that they are given the most to those who need the most. I like the reasoning about sick days and give credit in that direction. This has to do with both your own sick days and sick days linked to the children. I believe that this creates a situation in the labour market that could put women at a disadvantage. Today, women take a great deal of responsibility for the children's sick days, I think. It has to do with women's work environment, but there are also many other parts and efforts. There is definitely more to do to work to reverse that trend. As far as the welfare sector is concerned, the most important thing is that this government has decided to invest more there. This applies precisely to the sectors mentioned by Helena Bouveng, both in the education sector, where we are now investing strongly from the state side and increasing investment, and not least the welfare sector, with the 10 new permanent welfare billions to municipalities and county councils. In addition to some targeted initiatives we have made, this actually means a huge investment in public activities, but it also affects the private companies that exist in the welfare sector that there is more opportunity to conduct a good business. We are doing this not primarily for reasons of enterprise, let me be honest and say, but because we see that welfare needs more funding and greater quality. That's why we're making this effort. But it is clear that the companies on this market will also be able to benefit from these efforts. As far as the investigation is concerned, the Moderates would like to say that this is a ban on profit. But the investigator has not proposed this, but a profit limit. The investigation has been for a referral, and people are still making comments. Then the government will take a stand. What is our focus in this work is to ensure that more of our common tax money actually goes to what they are intended for, such as school, health care and care. This is in the future a reasonable path that citizens also expect. If we were to succeed in these higher quality requirements and also ensure that more of the money stays in business, it would certainly benefit women in the Swedish labour market, because we know that many women work in these sectors.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-481	Mr President, I would like to There's no backtracking on what this bet should do. When you take it down at regional and municipal level, you wonder how much impact it actually will be. The Minister for Industry referred to the desire for a distributional policy profile that favours women. But I can say that women who choose to work more hours or choose to train do not benefit. Today, government income tax is levied on revenue of 36 000. Then why does the midwife have to work that extra weekend? Why should the assistant nurse get extra training and administrative responsibility when she is allowed to keep a very small part of the income increase in her own wallet? Where I ask myself the most question, I have to say. I would also like to remind the Minister for Economic Affairs that the average woman earns SEK 3.6 million less than her male counterpart during a professional life. Women spend seven working weeks each year more than men on cleaning and washing. It is more common to be called Johan and CEO of a listed company than to be a woman and CEO. It shows in black and white that Sweden, which is often seen as a leading country in gender equality issues, has a fairly long way to go. In view of what the Minister for Economic Affairs has just said, we can also note that the countries with the lowest proportion of female CEOs are also among the countries with large public monopolies in their welfare. Earlier today we had a debate on the RUT reform and its impact. In a report called Equal work? you can see how working hours increased among those who already worked during the time of the Alliance. There was an increase of 13 000 full-year jobs for women, compared with an increase of only 5 000 full-year jobs for men. In view of what we talked about before the break, one can say that the RUT reform has brought much else.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-486	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the interpellation debate. I am happy to discuss equality more often in this House, because it is an important issue. Above all, it is an important priority that we are very proud of in this government. This debate on the RUT issue also came to an end. I believe that the issue of gender equality is much greater than the RUT issue, which we have discussed here. We can take a few questions that were up in the last post. For example, it has been possible to see what changes have taken place in a short time with regard to the presidents and CEOs of state-owned companies. I have given priority to bringing up the proportion of women who are presidents of state-owned companies. We now hold 46% female chairmanship of state-owned companies. This compares with the stock exchange companies at 6%. With the change, it has also driven a change in the state companies at the CEO level. When the companies on the stock exchange have 5 percent female CEOs, we now have 32 percent female CEOs in the state companies. It is possible with conscious policies to change such power structures and show that women's skills can be harnessed in companies and in both state and private companies. Finally, I come to the tax debate. Don't take women hostage for Moderate tax policy. We know that men benefit from Moderate tax policy. You always have tax proposals that are targeted and tilted towards those who earn the most so that they get the most out of your tax changes. That is why the tax profile and the distribution profile will be as you suggest. We have reversed this trend and ensure that women are given priority in our budgets. It's part of being a feminist government.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-489	Mr President, I would like to Mattias Bäckström Johansson has asked me if I intend to take any action on the grounds that a Swedish state-owned company is purchasing nuclear fuel from a Russian state-owned company that also has a nuclear cell. The basic principle is that the State does not identify which suppliers are to be used by individual companies, including the state-owned companies. The government conducts ongoing foreign and security policy analyses of all issues relating to our relations with other countries. When Vattenfall trades with Russian companies, they follow the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' recommendations and international sanctions. The Government requires state-owned companies to act exemplaryly, to be transparent, to cooperate, to have strategic work in place and to use international guidelines in their work. Nuclear fuel trading complies with Euratom Supply Agency (Esa) and International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) regulations and guidelines. Areva, Westinghouse and TVEL are audited in accordance with Vattenfall's supplier code of conduct. In addition to Russia, which has delivered fuel to Sweden for 40 years, Canada, Kazakhstan, Australia and Namibia are also important suppliers to Vattenfall's facilities. Vattenfall's purchasing strategy is in line with the EU's desire for a diversified supply and to avoid dependence on individual countries. Vattenfall's new purchases are based on this, and current suppliers for the coming years, French Areva, US Westinghouse and Russian TVEL, are in line with the purchasing strategy of being independent of individual countries and suppliers.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-493	Mr President, I would like to I must thank the Government for the answer to my interpellation. The background to the interpellation is that Vattenfall has worked for a very long time with testing and licensing of nuclear fuel from the Russian company TVEL owned by the state operator Rosatom. It has been an urgent task in which TVEL has had a very difficult time entering the European market with fuel for pressurised water reactors. It has been difficult to find an operator who wants to take on the financial and security risks. Vattenfall has for a long time helped in this work with the aim of bringing together additional actors who can supply the Swedish nuclear reactors with fuel and bring in a third player. Now they have taken the work and process to goal. A billion-dollar nuclear fuel supply agreement has recently been signed up to 2025. The agreement also provides TVEL with good opportunities to sell fuel on to other pressure water reactors across Europe. Vattenfall has helped them open the market. This is something that is not under the influence of the press release sent out by the Russian company, which is rather proud to have made the agreement. What I question is not exactly the commercial nature of this. I believe that a correct assessment is made in relation to the price picture of the fuel to be purchased and also to the redundancy so that you have more suppliers to go to. However, the question is whether there is a greater limit to commercialism where there may be other interests that are considering, for example, in security policy and in terms of security policy aspects of such an agreement. That's a little bit of the thought that remains for the Minister of Economic Affairs.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-497	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the interpellation debate. It's not the first time it's been taken. I believe it has been carried with different ministers and also under different colors on governments. Carl Bildt has answered similar questions, Mrs Wallström has previously answered questions about this, and now I do. We answer about the same thing. The state companies have to comply with the laws and regulations that apply. In this case, we have not given Vattenfall any specific directive or mandate from the state other than to be commercial in its activities and to conduct energy activities so that it is one of the companies that is leading the development towards environmentally sustainable energy production. This means that we do not point out which suppliers the company should use but that the company has to relate to the foreign policy and security policy assessments that Sweden makes as a nation. We do not have any sanctions or restrictions in this area in our trade with Russia. It is free to hold such a discussion. But we cannot have a situation in which a company should apply different rules than other companies. At least that's not how we have so far run the state companies. It is important to be very clear that Vattenfall does not violate any laws, rules or practices and that we dare to be clear about that in this House too. Otherwise, it creates a picture of it. The second thing is that Vattenfall has also been transparent about this and continues to be so. I think it should be. It's not a secret business. Nevertheless, I am a little surprised that the discussion on Russian security interests is being raised by the Swedish Democrats. You have not always acted entirely consistently on these issues in Sweden and, above all, not at European level, where much of these security policy discussions are now taking place. It is not least important that Europe has a united line to mark how Putin has acted in Europe. There I think that the Swedish Democrats at European level have shown very great abstinence to attempts from Europe to mark against Putin's actions. The Swedish Democrats also stood up in Europe for Russian military escalation against neighbouring countries. That's not good. You also opposed increased transparency and scrutiny of what Russian money is given to various European parties. I think you should be open and transparent on these issues. There has also been uncertainty about the attitude of the Swedish Democrats in this House linked to certain employees and others who have been present at the office. Trying to discredit Vattenfall because it is conducting a very open and transparent process in this area is wrong.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-504	Mr President, I would like to We can try to hold the debate to Vattenfall and the nuclear fuel business, the Government. It is important to stress that Vattenfall's role is not wild in any way. It's done the deal on a business basis. It has looked at creating further diversification of suppliers and a redundancy of having different fuel supply channels. It is important to keep the concepts slightly separate. In the answer from the Government, the purchase of uranium dioxide is lumped together with nuclear fuel. This must indeed be distinguished by the fact that uranium dioxide is in no way a form of high-tech product, but rather a bulk product in this context. The nuclear fuel bundles that are now to be purchased and licensed are the high-tech product. It has helped the Russian state-owned company to expand and enter the European market and to strengthen its ability to become dependent on other nations in the field of nuclear energy. It is true, in fact, that all existing laws, rules and practices have been followed. The company has been completely transparent. But it is the political context that is more interesting. It has been an affair that has been very lengthy for a long time both during the year of the Alliance in power and under the now Social Democratic and Environmental Party government. In opposition, both have acted to highlight the inadequacy of buying nuclear fuel from a company with a Russian state owner and working with nuclear weapons alongside the civilian use of nuclear power. What makes the two government options equal is that they have instead pointed to the commercial nature of the companies and placed themselves as spectators in the process, even though it has sounded very different in the past. I can find that very strange in this context. In some other contexts, the question is broken down into whether or not to use a port, but one sees less security concerns about a Swedish state-owned company buying nuclear fuel from a Russian state-owned company that also produces nuclear weapons for Putin. In this context, it would be interesting to hear whether we are now completely ignoring the problem that still exists. This will have to be decoupled from what is happening in the context of Vattenfall's activities or the civilian use of nuclear power, because that is not what I want in any way.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-510	Mr President, I would like to If we focus on that part: Sweden supports EU sanctions against Russia due to its illegal annexation of Crimea and its military involvement in eastern Ukraine. The conditions for cooperation with Russia have deteriorated and will continue to deteriorate as long as current Russian policy is pursued. Mrs Wallström also stated today, at the summit that took place between Sweden and Russia, that not everything was agreed. So we have different views. Sweden supports European decisions in this area. We decide jointly in Europe that we have sanctions or do not want to trade certain products or certain sectors, and then Sweden follows them. We are also pushing for sanctions to be maintained and applied in full. Then, given that there are sanctions, we continue to want cooperation in other areas in the Baltic Sea region. We have not said that Swedish companies should completely stop trading with Russia, but they should be able to have exchanges. If we have not decided to boycott or have restrictions on action, then it is free for both private and state-owned companies to trade with those suppliers. Should we start working with this company for companies or product for product, on our own, I believe both that the European sanctions policy against Russia would be weakened and that we would not be perceived as strong enough in a joint action against Russia. So I think it is important to stand up for the sanctions that exist against Russia, but in those areas where there are no sanctions, it is free for companies to trade with Russia. You have to make your own assessments, and that responsibility lies with the Board of Directors of Vattenfall. It has also made its assessment in accordance with the logic you yourself describe, Mattias Bäckström Johansson.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-514	Mr President, I would like to It is correct that there are no sanctions for this particular product, but there are, after all, things that may be inappropriate even if they remain legal a. It doesn't have to be just in the legal context. I think that the purchase, development and licensing of nuclear fuel may not be equivalent to any product. Russia is a nuclear nation, and within the framework of the same company it has produced nuclear weapons. We're buying nuclear fuel from another division of the corporate group. Somewhere there may be a moral responsibility not to help Putin to open up its company to a wider European market, with the pressurised water reactors that are there, in the context of security policy. We then make it easier for the company to enter as an actor along with other suppliers of pressure water reactors. Nevertheless, I think it is some kind of responsibility for us to take these aspects into account politically too, since this differs from other products which are not as easy to replace. One can easily end up in a dependency position with Russia on the energy side, as other countries have also done. I and the Swedish Democrats find it extremely regrettable that it is entirely a choice to ignore the security policy context, which somewhere unites the Alliance in government and the now red-green government.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-517	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that the actions of the Swedish Democrats, either here in Parliament or in the European Parliament, have demonstrated the security concerns linked to Russia's actions that are now being expressed in the pulpit. I think it is incredibly important that Europe continues to be united and that we are tough on Russia. We shall stand up for the sanctions that have been imposed as a mark against the illegal annexation of Crimea and the military interference that existed in eastern Ukraine. The fact that Sweden, through its ownership in a state-owned company, would decide that a particular product should not be traded from Russia, I think, is the wrong way to go. If you are to have sanctions against Russia, that should happen in a wider context. There are no sanctions, and that is why I do not think that responsibility lies with Vattenfall either.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-519	Mr President, I would like to Mattias Bäckström Johansson has asked me if I intend to take any action in connection with Lernias's launch of the initiative The new Swedish National Agency with an invitation to companies, organisations and others to use Lernias's new Swedish national agency instead of the current Swedish national agency, and whether I believe that the initiative is within the framework of Lernias's mission. Through the Articles of Association, the owner determines the company's business objects and certain defined framework for the operations. Lernia does not have a specific social mission. Like a number of state-owned companies, Lernia operates in a competitive market. According to the articles of association, Lernia will work with skills provision for the world of work, with a main focus on education and staffing, and conduct compatible activities. From Lernia I have obtained that the campaign The new Swedish National Agency aims to highlight that people's skills are not in the pronunciation. The initiative does not address the Swedish language but focuses on how the Swedish language sounds depending on who speaks it. The company notes that language and pronunciation can have an exclusive effect on the labour market. At the same time, there is a shortage of labour in Sweden, and Lernia has a commercial interest in matching the skills available to the needs of the labour market. Lernia is managed by the government through the Government Office and the Ministry of Enterprise. However, Lernias's Board and management are responsible for the day-to-day management of the company's operations. I have full confidence in Lernias's board and management and find no reason to take any action on the issues.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-522	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its response to the interpellation. It deals with the fact that Lernia, a state-owned company, has developed its own mixed Swedish company, which has been called upon to use by companies and organisations. This has attracted a great deal of attention and, probably by the vast majority, has been perceived as rather controversial. The background is a study by the European Commission that showed that language was one of the factors that was most detrimental to job seekers in Sweden, which may not be surprising. Looking at the entire study, however, I think that one should somewhere realize that we in Sweden should be proud of the result that emerged. In other countries, it was other factors that prevented job seekers from entering the labour market, such as ethnicity, disability, physics or age. So we can see that in Sweden it was not one of the grounds for discrimination that was the biggest factor, but the language. The language can be learned; it is thus a factor you can influence, unlike the others. If you try to break the conditions for a fixed national standard, you probably weaken the opportunities for those who have Swedish as a second language to learn Swedish properly and be able to enter the Swedish labour market. It is also the case that most newcomers who read Swedish today experience it as a language that is relatively difficult to master phonetic, and even more difficult it will be if you tell yourself that it does not matter how you pronounce words without being able to pronounce things a bit anyway. Somewhere, perhaps, a lack of vocabulary, a lack of pronunciation, or a lack of ability to express oneself in writing is more of a concern than trying to imitate the official standard of the written language. The question is how it will affect the conditions for integration when trying to send out this type of signal from a state-owned company. You probably do it out of goodwill, but the question is how it's going to beat. One question for the Government is how he believes that this type of experiment will strengthen the conditions for foreign-borns to enter the Swedish labour market.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-528	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, for this interpellation! I was a little surprised by the interpellation, because I didn't really know if it was completely serious. I think that everyone who has taken part in this campaign understands that Lernia in this way wants to provoke not least employers to think about what kind of skills they really want. Do you want a person who pronounces everything in exactly the same way as you do? Actors and northerners and many others have different pronunciations, and it works just fine, but a barrier to being considered for jobs at all can be how to pronounce words. One's linguistic talent or one's ability to follow safety regulations or communicate is not the problem but how to pronounce words. This is, I think, a rather energetic campaign, although I do not intend to have any comments on whether Lernia is doing right or wrong. It is their commercial decision to make this campaign to get a better match in the labour market. Sweden currently has 350 000 unemployed, while there are approximately 100 000 job vacancies. I can share the view that it is a good thing that the grounds for discrimination are no more serious than the language part, but the language part is incredibly important in order to carry out many tasks. That is why language teaching is important, and that is why we are investing in early learning in refugee camps and other things even before you get your decisions. Education can also be provided by associations of peoples, for example. We look at different ways of combining education and work, because I think it is incredibly important not to wait with the language until you get a job but that you can actually also learn the language at work. My experience is that those who have come to Sweden and got a job and ended up in such an environment often learn the language much faster and better than those who are completely outside. I think it's important to work with the language. It's a government priority. To provoke a little and push the boundaries and discussions and ask what language skills are needed to start a job and develop, I think is good. As far as Lernia is concerned, I can give you a concrete example which I find interesting. Scania was to expand its production in Oskarshamn. They needed to recruit 700 people, and it is a rather complex issue to succeed with it in little Oskarshamn. Lernia took on the mission. They redeployed existing staff but also trained new employees. They brought in people from other places than Oskarshamn to cope with the supply of skills. Many of the new employees were quite recent. They moved to Oskarshamn from different parts of the country and were able to start working at Scania after eight months of education. The result of this was that Scania's skills needs could be solved, the municipality's tax revenue could increase and 700 new jobs were created. That's the way Lernia wants to work and work at best. The fact that a state-owned company wants to try some new approaches to ensure that employers test which skills are crucial for the proper functioning of the business is within the responsibility of the company's board of directors and management. I'm not the owner who should have any views on it.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-536	Mr President, I would like to I do not know whether it is the task of state-owned companies to provoke and experiment with the conditions for foreign-borns to enter the labour market or not. It can be said that this is an experiment in which one engages in trying to set aside an existing norm that exists for the language. Language is very much one of the most important factors for entry into the labour market. There are many professions where some form of interaction with others takes place in everyday life, which makes a reasonably correct pronunciation necessary. There is probably more to what words you have learned and to know concepts, which can compensate for a different pronunciation, but to think that there should be no national norm and that you try to put it aside and artificially try to create greater tolerance for dialects other than the national norm is an experimenting that probably will not reach the social partners to a large extent. It may be more a dangerous signal picked up by the people who want to enter the labour market and those who are there and who are interpreted as not being so important without being able to talk any way. This may not place any emphasis on learning the language to the extent necessary to enter the labour market. In the school world, it doesn't really work when learning a language that you don't start from the standard language but think you can pronounce vowels and consonants a little anyway and that there is no norm for how to speak the language. It is contrary to the way in which language training is conducted in general. Learning to master a new language is based on a standard language, and it is important for understanding news broadcasts, sharing the media, being able to get in touch with citizens and employers in the country and being able to enter the labour market. This is what Lernia takes a stand against and tries to challenge with the campaign. My view is that it can be directly detrimental for foreign-borns to enter the labour market if government companies work in this way and try to break the conditions for a linguistic norm. As far as Scania and Oskarshamn are concerned, where I am also a municipal politician, 700 jobs have been created with the help of new arrivals. On the contrary, it has been a problem to cope with the transition in the labour market in Oskarshamn, where there has been a growing exclusion of that particular group. There have been major differences in the employment rates of native and foreign children. It is also a major change linked to the disappearance of jobs in our labour market region due to the closure of two nuclear reactors and the disappearance of many subcontractors because they have been taxed for too long. But it's another discussion. It is interesting that the Minister for Economic Affairs sees no risk in breaking a language standard and believes that it could in no way jeopardise the conditions for foreign-borns to enter the labour market. It's because of what I've put in this interpellation. Is this within the scope of the assignment that is contained in the articles of association? I find it very difficult to see. The Government is happy to develop this.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-545	Mr President, I would like to No, I really don't see any danger in this. Lernia is a company that has worked to educate and match job seekers with employers for almost a hundred years. They have a great understanding of the importance of relevant language skills but also express on the basis of the experience they have of working with these issues for a very long time that people's pronunciation can sometimes contribute to the neglect or invisibility of real competence and language skills – we might say that people are discriminated against because of pronunciation and that you do not value the knowledge some people have because of pronunciation. It's Lernias's experience. I do not need to say whether it is right or wrong, but it seems fair in line with the picture I have of how the labour market works and how some employers unfortunately are thinking, which means that they may not find the necessary skills. Above all, these people are prevented from entering a labour market that allows them to develop the Swedish language more quickly and thus contribute to the economy and employment growth in our country when we have matching problems. It is not unfamiliar for Lernia to work with language learning, for they are also a company that conducts language teaching. Among other things, they teach SFIs, so these are not unknown questions to them. It is not that they do not see that the Swedish language is important for entering the labour market. I think that the Swedish Democrats here are trying to create a whole chicken farm out of a feather. I don't quite understand the basis for this interpellation. I don't think corporate management goes beyond its responsibilities. I have full confidence in corporate management and board of directors.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-549	Mr President, I would like to I think, as I said, that this type of campaign is very unfortunate. One can see a certain desperation that can be understandable as Sweden has received far more migrants than one might have been able to handle in a responsible way. I think the purpose is obviously stupid. It is believed that these people are doing a service by trying to break the linguistic national standard that exists instead of continuing and urgently working with language training and ensuring that the distance from the labour market is reduced by language skills. On the contrary, it is probably but for these people when you try to change the focus to that it is not so important with the language, that it is possible to get in anyway and that the competence is the important thing. That is not the norm of the labour market. Precisely in this context, it is important to maintain an image of and maintain the main focus on language being an important key. Happily, so far not many people have taken advantage of this. I guess it's barely any more than the ones who were there when it was launched. It gets complicated enough when Lernia, a state-owned company, tries to lift the main focus instead of focusing solely on language education.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-552	Mr President, I would like to On one thing we agree, namely that the Swedish language is important for people who have come to Sweden and to manage a labour market where there are complex demands. You have to be able to communicate with co-workers and sometimes with customers. Language skills are needed in order to deal with technical and safety requirements in the workplace. Language is a key to integration and to Swedish society. If this is the case, we are not inconclusive. Lernia is a company that over time has managed to provide employers with important skills and at the same time helped to get individuals who are far from the labour market into self-sufficiency. It is an important mission, and I expect the company to continue to deliver this important mission. I do not intend to take any action on the occasion of today's interpellation.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-554	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me what measures I intend to take to review the state ownership of companies, given that the Swedish National Audit Office believes that this can no longer be justified on the basis of the criteria established by Parliament regarding state ownership. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the Government's work to assess and maintain the timeliness of the state's holdings in terms of motivation, purpose and objectives. The Swedish National Audit Office has presented its review in a review report in January 2017. The Swedish National Audit Office's report is now prepared in the Government Office, and the Government will present its position on it in accordance with normal practice – i.e. by letter to the Riksdag within the four months of the Swedish Government's submission of the National Audit Office's report to the Government Office. The state ownership of companies in Sweden has been created at different times and for different reasons. Many of the companies originate in business activities within government agencies, businesses or state monopolies, but over time conditions have often changed. Therefore, the State continuously examines the reasons for continued state ownership as well as the companies' various tasks and orientations. However, I do not wish to precede the government's decision on this issue, but to refer to the position that will be set out in a letter later this spring.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-559	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would briefly start by giving a background to why the question is interesting, given the views the Swedish National Audit Office has sent with as a result of the government's governance of the corporate sphere. The Swedish State is therefore one of the largest shareholders in Sweden, with 158 000 employees in about fifty companies. As described by the Minister, this has grown over time in various ways, partly because different monopoly situations have been created when this type of activity has been broken out of previous state activities. One example is Swedavia, which manages the state airports. Most of the holdings are against that background completely uncontroversial. What sometimes becomes controversial is when you are in already functioning markets. Then it all looks a little different. In a democratic and well-functioning market economy, a few things must be made clear. The state is given double roles that must be dealt with in a market situation. The Swedish National Audit Office describes this in detail in a good and educational way in its letter. The state regulates, monitors and many times also becomes a judicial body. This means that in that case the State does not have a quite simple and entirely given role. It has to be handled. Simplified, one can say that the Riksdag has decided on criteria that form the basis for how the state should view the ownership of its companies. This I know the Minister can do very well. According to the Riksdag, the State must own companies only when justified by reasons other than the creation of economic value. That, Mr President, can often be seen as something strange, which it is not. If there is a functioning market economy and the state is with state companies in a competitive position, all these roles must be balanced. We will then find out what the Swedish National Audit Office points out in its criticism. Of the fifty state-owned companies, at least eight of them do not have the criteria laid down by the Riksdag as a basis for the ownership of state-owned companies. Three of the companies are SAS, Car Testing and Apoteket. Mr President, I would like to It is against this background that I have asked Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg what measures he intends to take to review the state ownership of the companies that the National Audit Office highlights. I have full respect for the preparatory work going on in the Government Office as a result of the report. It should of course be handled in the usual way. But my question remains. It would have been interesting to hear some comments from the Minister on the major issues.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-567	Mr President, I would like to It is a bit tricky for me to have this interpellation debate because the government wants to respond to the Swedish National Audit Office's letter according to practice. We usually do it in detail so that there is a good argumentation in all stages, so that everyone can read both the Swedish National Audit Office's review and the government's response – and then everyone can take a stand. Given that we return to that discussion, I would like to start with a couple of fundamental positions. This government is not driven by an ideologically coloured approach to state-owned companies. I felt that the bourgeois government, and not least the Moderates, had a tradition of pursuing privatisation issues clearly. It has been an ideological line on your part. This has resulted in a number of problems when you have sold at the wrong time or pushed for a change where you have not been able to predict developments in the future. This government has a pragmatic approach to possession. We think it is important to work with responsibility, long-termness and sustainable value creation as a starting point. It is just as the interpellier says, namely that different companies have different motives for their position in the state portfolio. These can be historical reasons, market failures or community missions. There are a number of reasons why there are state-owned companies and why a government, and the Riksdag, can decide that this should continue to be the case. However, I would like to say again, in principle, without going against the Swedish National Audit Office's report. Many countries are envious of how we in Sweden have organised our corporate governance and managed to combine financial control and other governance of the companies that enable them to compete in a functioning way in competitive markets. We will come back to this in our reply to the letter. As Minister of Enterprise, I do not have a privatisation agenda. I've made that clear. But the interpellation is an indication that the Moderates have a different agenda. Based on what Edward Riedl has seen from the Swedish National Audit Office's report, which companies can the Moderates not consider selling? Is it only the short list that the National Audit Office has pointed out that is relevant to you? Do you have a broader list? I have previously read motions that you have raised where you have pointed out some companies that are important to continue to own. How do you view State ownership on the part of the Moderates?
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-572	Mr President, I would like to The Minister's answer is interesting. This raises two questions which I would like the Minister to try in some way to answer in his next speech. One question is whether the criteria laid down by Parliament for the state's ownership of companies are good. The second is whether the criteria set by the Riksdag should be followed. Is that a reasonable attitude? The reason why I put these questions to the Minister is, of course, the report prepared by the National Audit Office. The Swedish National Audit Office, on behalf of the Riksdag, is working to review how the state companies are governed. That is quite reasonable, Mr President, at least in my view – if Parliament has established criteria, the government should think it is reasonable to relate to them and also that they should be followed. It will be interesting to hear how the Minister views this. The criteria on which this is based have been reviewed by the Swedish National Audit Office, and it has been concluded that for eight of these companies, one can no longer see any reason for continued state ownership. That is where some of the companies I have mentioned are counted. One of them, I think, can be uncontroversial even for the Minister, such as SAS. The car test and the Apoteket are lifted up. I think that the ideological question can certainly be discussed. It would also be interesting, given that I am a little curious about it, to hear how the Minister for Economic Affairs is thinking. Does the Minister think that the state is a better owner than others and should be in more markets? Should we start more state-owned companies and be out competing? What many others, not least Stefan Fölster, point out is that, historically speaking, the state is not a better owner but, on the contrary, a less valuable creator. All the money the state has in its state companies has over time led to a decrease in value creation. If you now want to place money on the part of the state, it would be better to place it elsewhere. But back to the ideological, because of course I will answer the minister's question. There are many companies that have, in the course of history, ended up in the state portfolio, which I think is rather uncontroversial. You think they'll probably be there over time. There are many such companies. I believe that Anders Borg had a debate last parliamentary term. I do not remember whether it was the current Minister of Economic Affairs who was interpellant then or whether it was anyone else from his party. Then a lot of companies were listed where probably no one today would say that we would have a state ownership. But they are now in the briefcase, and there are no plans to sell them. So there is no such agenda, but there is no intrinsic value in the fact that the state is a big owner in a lot of companies. The question you might ask yourself is whether SAS – let's talk about an individual company – is whether there is any point in the state owning an airline in the globalised world in which we live, where there are private companies that do this. Is the state the best of owners? As the situation has been for SAS, it does not seem that way. It will be interesting to hear how the Minister views those issues. But my basic question to the Minister is, as I said, Mr President: are the parliamentary criteria good, according to the Minister? And, quite apart from that, are the criteria to be followed or not?
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-581	Mr President, I would like to Reply to the Swedish National Audit Office's report I will do according to practice and to the Riksdag, as I explained in my interpellation response. We're not going to go all the way ahead. To begin with value creation: I know that the Mod Erats are now pushing the requirement for no-go zones. It is almost a joke to say that I feel that we should have no-go zones when it comes to the responsibility of bourgeois governments for state companies after both the Nuon accident and the breakdown that I now need to deal with in Postnord. The Nuon deal, just to put this in perspective, meant write-downs for the state of SEK 53 billion. There is an incredible amount of money that Swedish taxpayers have lost out on. But not only that. The large write-downs still characterise Vattenfall's balance sheet and economic activities. What if Vattenfall hadn't made this deal and could have chosen to use the economic strength to invest faster in renewables, which they now want to do. It is clear that it also matters how to manage the companies, if you are long-term and have wise ownership control. Another highly topical example is Postnord. My party was opposed to the merger that was carried out because we thought the basis was too bad. Now it turns out that the forecasts for the merger were purely fortuitous. Letter volumes in Denmark would decrease by between 4% and 5%. Already in the second year, they fell by 9 per cent and in the year following by 10 per cent. In addition, the Danish business has special conditions which means that those who are to be dismissed in Denmark will now receive three years' wages without having to work. It is clear that there is a huge risk that the deficits in Denmark are now being rolled over on Sweden – and the shareholder agreement, that construction, was Edward Riedl's government with and built. It is clear that responsibility must also be taken for the management of state-owned companies. We've done that. We have also tightened up corporate governance of state-owned companies so that we have written communication with the companies. If the companies want to carry out a major transaction, they must submit a written reply to the Government and the Government so that we can follow up on what has happened but also demand responsibility. It is reasonable to have such a system, so I think we are better at corporate governance. We take it more seriously than the previous government did, at least in these specific cases. When you talk about SAS, you can of course take individual examples in the company. We all know in this House that Parliament has decided that there is an authorisation for the government to reduce or completely cease ownership in SAS. I have also said publicly that I believe that the state, which is a major owner of SAS, should be a responsible owner when it is an owner but that it is not a long-term owner of SAS. Over time, we will test our ownership in SAS on the basis of the financial situation in the company and on the market but also test whether the company is in the right position to make a sale of the shares in SAS. That is an example. It is also important to say that the Riksdag has not given an infinite carte blanche to any government to sell. The Parliament has decided on the authorisations available for the government to sell individual companies, and it is obvious that the government will both listen to and comply with the Riksdag's decisions.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-588	Mr President, I would like to The Minister said in a previous speech that he does not have a privatisation agenda. It is interesting to hear that the Minister for Economic Affairs can still consider selling SAS and that we should not be long-term owners there. That's the interesting thing. It is also where the Riksdag's criteria for what ownership should look like come in, i.e. what should form the basis for the state to be the owner of a company. That is why it is interesting, and that is why we can have this discussion. In other words, the Minister can at least consider selling things. Then, Mr President, I just want to stop at one thing. It was shut down a lot earlier, but I wrote in my own bloc: Are social democrats better managers of state companies than other governments? The Minister then referred to this very point. He actually thought Social Democrats were better. Consider an example. In times of fact resistance, the facts are very exciting. We're looking at Vattenfall. Then Nuon is often highlighted. We can look at the results or rather the write-downs in Vattenfall, at when they have been done over time under blue governments and under red governments. I'm curious if the Minister knows the answer. I know the answer and can say it; the minister can cover his ears if he wants. The reductions have been as great in times of red governments as in times of blue governments – Nuon included. Then the question is: are Social Democrats better? No, it's probably just that politicians aren't the best entrepreneurs. Although the Minister for Economic Affairs seems to have the impression that he is a very good entrepreneur, it is rarely the case that politicians are the best entrepreneurs. It is against this background that these criteria are interesting. Then my question is: Are the parliamentary criteria good? Should they be followed?
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-594	Mr President, I would like to I think it is interesting to discuss Vattenfall in view of the write-downs that have been made there because of a deal that many warned against. We asked the question whether it was really wise to buy this Dutch business, built on fossil power, in the shift that we faced. The previous government went ahead with it, and it has cost 53 billion in write-downs. We all know that when write-downs are made, they are done because of lower prices on the market. Thus, the transactions may have been made at different times, and the write-downs come at a time when prices fall. It is important to make a link between which business has been good, which business has been bad and what builds value over time. I think that the last government period shows that you, with both the Postnord merger and the Nuon affair around Vattenfall, made a number of real misplaces in the corporate governance of companies that have cost a lot. I also note that I will reply to the letter in accordance with current practice, but that the Moderates have in any case been very clear in this debate: the Apoteket and the Car Test are to be sold out. I cannot interpret it in any other way than that it was the conclusion of the argumentation. I look forward to the election movement when we can discuss these issues.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-598	Mr President, I would like to Katarina Brännström has asked me what measures I intend to take to reduce women's work-related absenteeism. One priority for me and the government has been to halt the increasing absence of women. To address this, action is needed in a wide range of areas. The government has a broad action programme that is starting to produce results. The number of new cases of illness is no longer increasing, and the cases of illness that begin are terminated earlier. It is now important for me to follow up and, where necessary, develop the action programme. For the government, it is particularly important that preventive measures are taken for a sustainable working life before a sick leave needs to be considered. It is of course important that the Swedish Work Environment Authority has the necessary resources. However, this is not enough. In order to address women's work-related ill-health, both employers and trade union representatives need to be involved. The government therefore offered the social partners to agree on measures to reduce absenteeism at the workplace, as did they. In August 2016, the parties submitted a joint declaration of intent for each sector with a view to achieving healthier workplaces. My assessment is that the measures announced will improve employees' chances of returning to work. In addition, the psychosocial working environment will improve. We will have healthier workplaces, which do not generate sick leave. It is gratifying that the municipal and county council sector has come particularly far in its planning. It is in this sector that a large proportion of the women who are currently on sick leave have their jobs. I intend to follow up with the social partners on the work that has begun. I would also like to highlight the importance of the new regulations from the Swedish Work Environment Authority on organizational and social work environment. The regulations will be a tool for preventing social and organisational risks to health and safety at work and will clarify the responsibility for these issues. In the OSH dialogue forum organised by the Ministry of Labour, the parties have confirmed the image that there has been an increased focus on these issues with the new regulations. Also important in this context is the resource supplement of SEK 10 billion that has been added to municipalities and county councils. The increased resources for welfare are particularly important for the many women who work in so-called contact professions. For them, the addition of resources means more colleagues, better working environment and ultimately a more sustainable working life. Katarina Brännström mentions the long-term sick. It is important to bear in mind that the longer deadline meant that the statistics on the number of long-term sick people were misleading. Long-term sick leave was recorded in ALI as unemployed. When they returned to health insurance, they were considered new cases of illness. In fact, the individuals had been on sick leave for years. The removal of the longer deadline means that we are now making these individuals visible and their need for support. This will also allow us to take the necessary steps to help these people. As I mentioned, the broad approach of the government has already had an impact on the development of sick leave. Försäkringskassan's forecasts show that there are good conditions for achieving the targets set by the government for the sickness benefit rate for 2020. However, I am not content with that. My goal is that we get healthier workplaces and a low and stable sick absence over time. This is perfectly possible with the measures taken by the government and the work now being done by the social partners.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-608	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Of course, I think it was rather thin in terms of what real measures the government has taken. If nothing is done about the running costs of sick leave, in a few years' time they will be about the same as the costs of the defence. Sick leave has fallen and risen over a long number of years, with dramatic ups and downs, which is completely unique to Sweden and cannot be explained in so many ways. We are now seeing a sharp rise in ill-health rates, and the number of long-term sick leave is increasing, especially among women. In the answer to me, I cannot see what the government is doing. The social partners have been offered proposals, as has been done, but what does the government do in concrete terms? It says that there is a broad action programme, but no examples are given. Actually, I think it's thin. The growing mental illness is one of our major societal challenges. Often – not always – it is linked to the way things are at work. For many, a job can be a way to feel better, but for others the job is more the cause of mental illness. Since 2011, mental disorders, mainly stress-related diseases and depressions, have been the most common diagnosis for women. In the long run, this generates a higher absence, with lower pensions and a worse economy for these women. This should, in my view, be examined in concrete terms so that we can find answers to what measures should actually be taken. At the end of the 80s we had the highest sickness rates: on average 25 sick days per person per year. But no one can make us think that you were four times sicker in the late 80s than in 2010. That's where things have gone up and down. In good times, more people have been on sick leave. Under Social Democratic governments, more people have been on sick leave. And it is clear that the design of the insurance itself has an impact on how many people are on sick leave. Public employers, where politicians are in charge, should expect better results in preventing sick leave. In fact, sickness absence has increased by 75 percent over the last five years. It is a major failure for the government and for politicians around our country. The target set by the government is a maximum of nine sick days, and it has already been broken. The Social Insurance Fund's forecasts show that it can even go up to 12 days in 2020, so what the Minister wrote in his reply is not correct. Then the annual cost is 44 billion, in line with the defence costs. Some of the government's proposals have been backed up, such as the proposal for co-financing. That would mean that many might not even get the job they dream of. What is important is the rehabilitation chain and how Försäkringskassan assesses the work capacity. One must focus on the industries and employers that are the worst, and unfortunately the public is really bad. I think it is important to clarify employers' responsibilities, and I do not see that the government has any really good examples. But perhaps there is something that comes out of the additional answers that the Minister is going to give.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-618	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Katarina Brännström, for the interpellation, which indeed points to something very important! This is, and has been, one of our three top priorities since the government took office. When I took over as Minister of Social Security in autumn 2014, the sickness rates during the time of the bourgeois government had risen by 55 per cent from 2010 to 2014. At the same time, the bourgeois government had secured 110 000 people while at the early time limits in the rehabilitation chain, at the 90- and 180-day limits, the trials had fallen by 50 per cent. Over the same period of time, the costs had risen from 21 billion to nearly 40 billion when I took over as Minister of Social Security. The Government appointed a very strong position in the Government Office in the autumn of 2005. In autumn 2015, we launched a broad package of 25 different measures in seven different areas, all 25 of which are now implemented. These are measures aimed at employers, the Swedish Work Environment Authority, Försäkringskassan and the healthcare sector, and also in the autumn of 2016 we have now received three agreements in place with all the trade unions and employers in the Swedish labour market, with a focus on improving preventive work at our workplaces and workplace-related rehabilitation. This solid work, which the government has begun and is now continuing, has resulted in sickness absence in Sweden no longer increasing and has stabilised over the past year. In addition, the duration of illness is now falling. One year ago, the forecast for sickness benefit days in 2020 was 12, 4. The latest forecast I have now received from Försäkringskassan, a year later, is now 10 days of sickness benefit in 2020, i.e. one day above the government target by 2020. As I say in my reply, I am therefore quite convinced that we will achieve the government's objectives on the basis of the package of measures that we have now taken. So we have broken the negative trend. As Katarina Brännström so carefully points out, this is a problem we have had in Sweden for nearly three decades. Regardless of which government has been in power, one has, we might say, not been happy when one has b lived sitting with this black pet. There is a very complex background to the strong ups and downs. This is also why the Government's goal is not only that we reach a sickness benefit of 9.0 by 2020, but that we will also succeed in taking such measures that over time we can get a low and stable sickness benefit rate in Sweden, for it benefits everyone. It's good for politics. This benefits not least the individuals affected by ill health and absenteeism, and it also benefits the Swedish employers, who have a more stable situation vis-à-vis their employees in the workplace. I also share Brännström Katarina's view that the employers who work in welfare, whether they are public employers, who are the biggest criminals in these contexts, or private welfare activities, must become much better at working preventively and contributing to a work environment that does not make people sick. There, the government has made quite a lot of efforts, which I am happy to return to in the next speech.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-625	Mr President, I would like to The role of the Swedish Work Environment Authority is also quite important. They are tasked with developing knowledge and developing and implementing specific efforts to improve women's working environment. When the alliance government was in power, we contributed a lot of money that was intended directly for women's working environment. We still invest in our budget more in this than the government does, which I think is very good. It must be knowledge, and the causes must be investigated, so that you know what you have to do. It can't be that we in Sweden are so much sicker than others. No one believes that. We also want to add EUR 150 million to the rehabilitation guarantee. We believe it is important that rehabilitation, which must be carried out in consultation between the social security funds, employers and employees, can take place at an earlier stage and in a clearer way. Research and development must also receive money, to which we have committed funds. But we cannot get away from the removal of the lower limit of sick leave causing sick leave to collapse. The Minister says that the individuals have been made visible and can investigate their needs. But the resources of the Social Insurance Agency are not endless, and this will cost an enormous amount of money. In five years, expenditure on sickness benefit has doubled from 16 billion in 2010 to nearly 32 billion in 2016. It goes without saying that we cannot go on like that. It is important to take this seriously. I think that I see too few examples of the government doing so, although the Minister is now saying that it is top 3 in priority. I would like to see more examples of what the government is doing. Or perhaps you are unable to find the right measures? Of course, there can be uncomfortable measures. True, we are seeing some protests now where people do not feel that they are getting the sick leave they need. It is clear that there has been a certain tightening up, and I think that is necessary. With regard to the objective of healthier workplaces, I think there will be a lot of talk, but unfortunately I think that there will be too little results and that it will take far too long. Sometimes there is a real need for clear and rapid information about what will apply if people's attitudes towards sick leave are to change. As I said, statistics show that sick leave rates and costs are rising in good times, as we have right now. That's not good. I would have liked us to have had more good examples. Then, of course, it was very strong that the Minister on TV said that it was all right for sick leave to increase so much. I think I understand what the Minister meant, but it didn't sound very good. It's not in order that people are very sick. Something has to be done about it. Strong action is needed. I was amused to look at the wish list that the parties came up with. The aim was to strengthen the supply of skills to occupational health care and to ensure coordination and evaluation. At all, there were expectations of the efforts of occupational health care, and they wanted more opportunities to study with rehabilitation allowance and more. There are many good proposals that the government should be able to make.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-633	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Katarina Brännström! I would like to repeat once again that, during the last term of office of the bourgeois government, the rate of sickness fell by 55%. Although the increase has continued during the current government, we have stabilised the increase in health insurance over the past year. Sickness rates are no longer increasing, but we have a stable level and we also expect to see sickness rates turn downwards during this year. Despite the fact that Katarina Brännström says that sickness rates tend to increase in good times, the government has managed to break this curve with the measures we have taken. The length of illness has now also stabilised and is actually decreasing. So I have to correct you, Katarina Brännström, when you quite sweepingly say that the sickness rates continue to rage away, because that is not true. This is also the result of the package of measures launched by the government a year and a half ago. We see that it produces results, including the quarter of a billion annually that we bring to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency in order to strengthen the trials in the rehabilitation chain with the early deadlines. These trials decreased by 50 per cent during the last term of the bourgeois government and have now increased to over 80 per cent or nearly 90 per cent, which means that people's work capacity is more tested, and to a greater extent people also return to work. When we talk about the increase in long-term sick leave, I must be very clear and say that the increase that we are now seeing is largely due to the fact that we have removed the longer deadline. This brings to light the cases of illness which, during the experimenting of the bourgeois government with the longer time limit, have come out of insurance and come back in as new cases of illness. There are 16 000 individuals, which corresponds to the number of long-term sick leave that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is now reporting. We are not playing with the statistics anymore, but now we are seeing long-term sick leave. In the years of the expiry of the time limit, we had 16 000 people spinning out and into insurance two to three times. These people are people who have been on sick leave for a total of over five years but who have repeatedly left the insurance and been re-entered as new illnesses. Let's see them. It's not a game of statistics. That is why I am sitting on Agenda and say: it is good that we are now seeing these cases of illness, because that means that we can take action and action that is right for these people. Some will certainly be tested for sickness benefits, and some will certainly have an opportunity to return to health and work. The government also makes such efforts. I am a little surprised when you say that we are not taking any action when, over the last two years, we have implemented perhaps the broadest package of measures in modern times in health insurance. I don't have time for the time I have here to list all 25 measures – this has also been supplemented in the autumn, in the 2017 budget proposal, by additional measures – which the government is now implementing. But it's all on the government's website. Katarina Brännström has every opportunity to read there. Otherwise, I would like to return to Katarina Brännström in another interpellation debate and explain in more detail the various measures when we have more time. I think it is important that we have a serious debate on this, because it is about real people that we should not hide in statistics. We will make sure to support people back to health and work.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-640	Mr President, I would like to The Minister says that the lower time limit is the reason for the sharp increase in the number of long-term sick people and that it is good to make the sick people visible. Let me remind you something about the removal of the far border! Sweden is unique and lonely about this. There are no other countries that have an eternal sick leave. What is good about that particular method? There's no evidence of that. It is strange that we should think that we should be the most sickened, that we should be so for all eternity and that it is precisely that model that is the best to make the sick visible. Maybe it's just the opposite. Perhaps this is what makes so many people sick. What is not being done in England or Germany or in other countries that actually have limits on how long people are allowed to be on sick leave and where there are also higher demands on employers? In Sweden, it is 14 days in sick pay. Otherwise, there is little responsibility. Maybe it's the wrong model. At least I think so. I believe that employers must take greater responsibility. I think it is a failure to remove the deadline. It is a failure that costs fall off in this way. Above all, this affects individuals who are not well, and it affects these women, who will receive lower pensions and all that goes with it. I do not think the Minister or I want that result. I believe that strong action is needed. I hope they come and we see them. Thank you for the debate. These are important issues. Maybe there'll be some further debate. Who knows?
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-645	Mr President, I would like to Katarina Brännström! I share the view that these are incredibly important issues, not least for all the women affected by sick leave. I also fully agree with Katarina Brännström that employers have a great responsibility. In particular, research and studies show that it is early in illness, in consultation with employers and with the opportunity to adapt work at the workplace, that we have the greatest opportunity to bring people back to health and work. It is enough for you to enter a full-time sick leave for three months in order to reduce your chances of returning to the labour market by 70%. That is why we in the government in the package of measures that we have put forward and in the work that we are now doing with the social partners are pressing very hard on early action. It is also about investments in collaboration between employers, healthcare, Försäkringskassan and the individual in order to get back quickly. One of the 25 measures is that we have changed the policy support. This means that since the end of the year, it has been recommended for psychiatric diagnoses that there are considerably shorter periods of sick leave and part-time sick leave, which I think is important. It is now a question of getting healthcare to make use of this, so that people do not have to go into long full-time sick leave. On the other hand, this is the case with the longer deadline: it turned out that 2% of those who were insured came back to the labour market. Between 70 and 80 percent went round in insurance. I don't think that's where we should focus, Katarina Brännström. I think we should focus more on healthy workplaces and ensure that people do not go into long sick leave. And for those who have ended up there for one reason or another, there should be adequate support and help. But we're going to prevent as many people as possible from getting there. That is my firm opinion. Thank you very much for a good debate.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-650	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me if I have taken note of the proposals for points to enable more housing for new arrivals that Swedish Municipalities and County Councils, SKL, have presented and what I intend to take for action in relation to the proposals. The answer to the first question is yes. Within the Government Office, active work is under way to prepare several proposals of precisely the meaning that SKL highlights. Several of the proposals are aimed not only at improving the housing situation of new arrivals but also at achieving a better balance in the housing market as a whole. I would like to mention here some of the proposals that we are working on in my and related areas of responsibility. As part of the Cross-Border Migration Agreement, the Government has decided on 16 February on the Council referral Exemptions from certain provisions of the Planning and Construction Act in the event of an influx of asylum seekers. It proposes that the Government should be authorised to provide for exemptions from the Planning and Construction Act in order for housing for asylum seekers to be arranged quickly for a limited initial period. The Government has also decided on 9 February on the legislative referral Time-limited building permits for dwellings. This includes proposals for a specific regulation in the Planning and Construction Act on fixed-term building permits for dwellings. The purpose of the proposals is to make it possible under certain circumstances to use temporary housing as a complement to permanent construction. On 17 January this year, the Government decided to call an investigator to review the credit guarantee scheme for housing construction. The aim is to create improved conditions for the renovation and conversion of housing. The mission shall be completed by 1 November of this year. Furthermore, on 26 January this year, the Government has commissioned Statskontoret to carry out an analysis of how private housing rental works and to propose possible measures to improve the efficiency of the use of the existing housing stock. The investigation shall be completed on 30 June of this year. A memorandum, Rehabilitation, has also been prepared within the Ministry, and it has been out for a referral until 14 February. The question is now being further addressed in the Government Office. On 26 January this year, the Government decided to invite a negotiating person to study both land owned by the State directly and land owned by companies with State ownership in order to achieve an increase in housing construction on state properties. The investigator shall conclude the non-disclosure mission on February 15, 2018. As far as the question of national interests is concerned, I can mention that the final report of the Swedish Investigation of Interest is now being referred to 28 February. On the noise issue, Boverket has submitted a report in December 2016 stating, among other things, that an amendment to the guide values under the previously referred proposal is not considered to allow more housing. However, according to Boverket, there may be reasons to make some other adjustments and clarifications in the traffic noise regulation. Boverket intends to come back with such proposals in connection with the final report of the current government mission in April. As regards the issue of beach protection, the housing policy package presented last summer states that an investigation will be commissioned, inter alia, to propose changes to the LIS framework in order to promote rural development in areas with good access to beaches. The government wants to see a vibrant countryside while maintaining an attractive landscape and protecting valuable natural values. The design of the current mission is under way. I would like to conclude by saying that I am in favour of the agenda drawn up by the SKL, which aims to create improved opportunities to meet the need for housing. I also share Mr SKL's ambition that the changes to the regulatory framework that should take place should come about without undue delay.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-658	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The reason I wrote the interpellation was that I saw that SKL had reached broad political agreement on a number of action points based on the new settlement law of 1 March 2016 and that there are major problems. Although people are very keen to receive new arrivals who are placed in the municipality, they have major problems with housing, because there are many obstacles and lead times are long. The proposals made by SKL in its letter are, I think, good. The Minister's answer is, among other things, that the government wants to see a living countryside while maintaining an attractive environment, etcetera. Today, the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture has announced to the government that the rules on beach protection must be changed, partly because we need more construction, because we have a lack of housing in the country. This has been opposed by S, MP and V, and it is very unfortunate and remarkable, because it rhymes badly with the idea that you want to see a living countryside. Then we must also be prepared to open up to housing where we may not have traditionally had it. Similarly, building with environmental considerations today cannot be compared with how we might have done in the 1960s and 1970s. Today there are such solutions, so in order to bring about the necessary construction, we must also be prepared to find new solutions and be pragmatic. The new Housing Act will automatically be very interesting in relation to the housing situation in Sweden. Suddenly, a lot of people are coming into the housing market. Many of the proposals mentioned here by the Minister are high, but I do not think that we can walk around in the same track, but we must think much more recently and more transparently. This weekend I also heard that many municipalities now have a reduced number of new arrivals. They would like to receive more municipally located, but housing is missing. It is mainly about the inland of Norrland, where there are many steam streams and lakes, and then the beach protection rules put a wet blanket over land where you can't build. There is therefore a lot of discussion here to facilitate the development of more housing. As of 1 July 2016, the County Administrative Boards have received 10 million to support the municipalities' efforts to convey or otherwise facilitate the rental of private homes. One of my questions is what effect this has had. Has it had any effect? Rent people out their homes, don't you think? When it comes to pragmatism, I have an example from Strängnäs municipality. There you have a very large immigration, because it is close to the city, it is easy to commute and so on. They are now vacuuming everything in the rental market in order to receive the 93 people who are located in the municipality. Does the Minister consider that the settlement law has had the desired effect?
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-666	Mr President, I would like to I will start from behind by saying that I believe that the settlement law works well. It's really proven to make a difference. Most people who come as new arrivals to Sweden get housing themselves in different ways, but a small part has been done through the new residence law. In the reports and evaluations that we have seen so far, it is quite clear that there are considerably more municipalities now receiving, and many of the municipalities that previously almost did not receive new arrivals have done so in the past year. I therefore firmly believe that the settlement law has worked well. Of course, one could wish that even more, yes, all municipalities would stand up and assume their responsibilities. This has not really been the case, but most of them do, and I think you can be quite proud that the Swedish municipalities have really increased their ambitions in this area. The municipalities also make much more detailed plans than in the past and ensure that there is land that can be built, and this is an important reason why we now have a much higher level of construction than in the last parliamentary term. Construction is more than doubled to what it was like in the past, and in the end it is still if we manage to build at the pace and scale that is needed to determine if people have a place to live. The Swedish construction companies are also doing much more than before. They even have a shortage of people today in terms of housing production. It is estimated in industry that we might need 40 000 more people to cope with the construction projects it undertakes. Today, a lot of overtime works to make it work. I can agree that we would need to think more new and bigger. However, beach protection is the only real and concrete issue raised by Lotta Finstorp, and it is hardly a new issue. I believe that the previous governments worked on this issue over all their eight years without succeeding in making a very good proposal, and that is why we are once again taking an interest in this issue and are going to try to do what the previous government failed to do. With regard to the announcement to which I believe the interpeller refers where S, MP and V oppose, this is done on the grounds that this work is already under way, so that is what their reservation aims to do. When it comes to the rental of private housing, which there was also a question about, we have given a special assignment to Statskontoret, but it is also the case that the 10 million has begun to have an effect. There are a number of municipalities that now take responsibility by having a housing agency vis-à-vis the private. It works, but it could work even better.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-673	Madam President, I would like There is a fire in the knots, if you say so, because we have such an acute housing shortage because we have got so many new arrivals that will now be placed in the municipality. What I think has been the obstacle for many years is that we do not have a positive migration carousel that you have in many other countries and which means that when you are young you live in a certain way and when you are older you live in a different way. Something that I thought was very positive that we had when the alliance government ruled was the subsidy for shelter. I come from Sörmland, where not much was built, but when the shelters arrived the villas were released, and then it became a positive moving carousel. That subsidy was removed by the current government, so it would be good if the Minister could say something about why. It's an excellent form. Moving carousels can be talked about in negative terms, and in SKL's letter you see it a little more negative. But I see a moving carousel as something positive if you do it well and if there are attractive housing for every stage of life. Today, there are rather positive elements that make people stay in far too large apartments and villas. I recently saw an interview with the Minister of Housing, where he said about that older people have plenty of space while young people and families often have it crowded, and that's exactly how it is. In order to increase mobility in the housing market, Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson wants to see a substantial reduction in the sales tax, which he in an interview with Dagens Nyheter calls the biggest concern in the tax area right now, but then the government partner S went directly out and disagreed. What is happening on that question? Is there a proposal? The study report SOU 2015:109 identifies 39 municipalities where there is a possibility of housing construction on state land. I find that very interesting. The mission is based on the need to allow disposal or lease of state land – the Minister also included this in the reply. There may also be properties within state-owned real estate companies that could be disposed of in order to be used for residential construction. What's going on there? The SOU came in 2015.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-679	Madam President, I would like We make a lot of decisions now. At each government meeting each week, we make new decisions in this area. It is partly about implementing the housing package that Magdalena Andersson and I presented in June this summer, just a few weeks after I joined. It works to a large extent well, I think. We deliver a lot of decisions. Among other things, we have recently appointed a special negotiator – the governor of Östergötland – who is responsible for the issue of selling state land in order to contribute to housing construction. The state owns land in many municipalities. We from the state can, if we want to, contribute in this way also to increased construction. Akademiska Hus is a state actor in the field who can also contribute, if we from the state want and talk about it clearly. I see mobility as a fairly large problem in the Swedish housing stock. There's too little mobility. We would need to take measures to increase that mobility and contribute to a more efficient use of the housing stock. We can do that in many different ways. One way is the support that we from the government have put in place to build retirement homes. I think that's pretty good. As I mentioned earlier, Statskontoret is working on an investigation that deals with how to provide increased possibilities for renting parts of an apartment, dwelling or villa in the private portfolio. However, as far as taxes are concerned, there is no government proposal. In an interview earlier, I mentioned that things have not gone in the right direction. The bourgeois government raised taxes during the previous term of office, both the interest rate and the level of profit taxation. This does not, of course, contribute to increased mobility, but the government has proposals to change in this area.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-685	Madam President, I would like It is probably right to take off many different things on the sandwich table to try to deal with the housing shortage that we have. It is a question of not locking up in sacred cows, but of thinking much bigger and more pragmatic, which I think the Minister also expressed in the previous speech. There are so many unnecessary obstacles. I'm not an engineer, but it seems better to measure noise inside the house than outside the house. There is a review from Boverket on noise regulations. From the country I can hear that one could help to reduce the housing shortage, but then there are obstacles of various kinds. It also hinders economic activity in rural areas, and this is particularly true in the area of beach protection. After all, the Alliance government was trying to bring relief to the beach shelter. What became problematic then was the water ditch in Dalarna, for example. It is filled sometimes, but it is seen as a water mirror, and then you must not build closer to it than 300 meters. There are some such cases that are absurd. If we can find possible solutions to this problem, I believe that many more housing can be found. I know that the government also wants the whole of Sweden to live. In the interior of Norrland there are many municipalities that want to receive more. It is one way of surviving to get more people to work in welfare, for example. Many young people leave, but the older ones remain. It must also be possible to build and live in attractive locations, of course with environmental considerations. I hope that the review of LIS areas and beach protection regulation will bring about a major change.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-691	Madam President, I would like I have to thank Lotta Finstorp for the interpellation. It is of course very important to discuss housing for new arrivals. We haven't done too much. Above all, perhaps we should have thought more about building more in the past. This applies not only to the previous government but also to the government before it. We have built up a large shortage of housing in Sweden for a long time. It will not be easy to solve, but it will take a long time to overcome those problems. We need to look at a variety of issues. There is no simple little solution that we can use to deal with this. There must be a wide range of measures in a wide range of areas.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-694	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling has asked me whether I intend to raise the SOT level, i.e. the level of universal service, and what I intend to do to ensure that Telia's shutdown of the copper network only happens as adequate alternatives are expanded. The expansion of fibre networks and increased mobile coverage make it possible to decommission copper networks. The government has the vision of a fully connected Sweden, as it creates the conditions for living, living and working throughout the country. The new targets in the broadband strategy are both an increase in ambition by 2020, as 95% should have access to broadband of 100 megabits per second and a new target of 2025. The new target means that 98% should have access to broadband of at least 1 gigabit per second at home and at work, the remaining 1.9% should have access to at least 100 megabits per second, and 0.1% – just like where I live – should have access to at least 30 megabits per second by 2025. The objectives also mean that by 2023 everyone should have access to stable, high-quality mobile services where they are normally located. Universal service is the minimum range of services, such as telephony and functional access to the Internet of specified quality, which should be available to all users with reasonable requirements at an affordable price. At present, functional internet access means that a connection to the Internet should be designed so that an end-user who requests it can receive data at a speed of at least one megabit per second. The availability of one megabit per second has in principle been met by the licensing requirements of the 800 MHz band. The Rural Committee's final report proposes a significant increase in the SOT level. The government already announced in the broadband strategy, adopted by the government in December, to mandate the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency to review this level. Soon – on Thursday, I hope – PTS will receive the assignment. The Government then takes a position on the matter after the usual preparation in the Government Office. The Government also intends to seek technology-neutral regulatory solutions in the process of revising the EU directives on electronic communications. Broadband and functional access to the Internet increasingly coincide as digital services today require faster broadband connectivity to function. Telia owns most of the copper networks and has the right to make changes in them. Telia is also a listed company and one of several players in a competitive market. As a shareholder, the Government may influence the composition of the Board of Directors but does not determine in detail how the Company operates. It is Telia's management and board, not the government, that has a responsibility to make business decisions regarding investments, such as changes in the networks, such as decommissioning the copper network. This also means that the company acts in such a way that good and long-term customer relations are maintained. Moreover, it is extremely important that accurate information on termination and compensation solutions should reach those who will be affected so that they can sign new subscription agreements on time. Telia has a huge responsibility to ensure that the information reaches consumers and municipalities in good time. The government is following this and the other issue closely.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-703	Madam President, I would like I have put my interpellation to Minister of Digitalization Eriksson to raise the issue of Telia's switch-off of the copper network. The question is not entirely new. But the Minister has now decided on a new broadband strategy for Sweden, which means that broadband will be extended to the whole of Sweden by 2025. Then this question will also come in a different light. We are now in a technology shift where we are going to move from copper to fibre networks, from grids with resistance and heat losses to the speed of light. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. To understand how many people are affected by Telia's switch-off of the copper network, I have printed a list of all the places involved. I was going to hand over the list to the minister. It's a long list.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-705	This applies to those for whom Telia has decided to turn off the lights during 2017 and 2018.
i-61cad4c91d2f7952-1	Why are not previously involved? ) Of course, I could have brought them too. Then the list would have been twice as long. This list is on a total of 17 pages, and 90 municipalities are affected. I'm not going to say that it's wrong to shut down in all these places – in some places there's broadband – but the problem is that a lot of people are affected. For many, it looks like to the residents of Älvsbacka, located outside Molkom, which in turn is located outside Karlstad. There Telia will turn off the copper grid on March 31, 2017. After that, mobile solutions are forced. Telia then wishes to sign an annual agreement for the services. But it is not certain that the residents of Älvsbacka need one, because once the frost is out of the hill, the village team together with the municipality's city network will pull out fiber. Despite this, they are now being forced into two technological changes before they have received the latest technology. I wouldn't call that a good technology shift. I therefore think it is important that we act in politics. In my interpellation, I propose two ways. The first option is that the government, through its significant ownership in Telia, directs the company so that the extinguishing takes place after fiber expansion has taken place. Telia itself has rejected this and believes that it would require a lot of them to keep track of all the fiber constructions that are under way. Minister Eriksson himself says in his reply that the government cannot decide in detail how the company operates. The second option I propose is to raise the so-called SOT level, which is a minimum level of universal service, in terms of legislation. This is the level that all citizens of Sweden should have. In his reply, the Minister refers to the Rural Committee's proposal – I am holding up the report here. It is a committee on which I myself have sat, and I know its proposals well. The Minister also says in his reply that the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency will shortly be asked to review the SOT level. I very much hope that this will happen on Thursday, as the Minister says. The television report that both I and the Minister attended last week also highlighted a third way forward. It's about Norway. The Norwegian Government, together with the company Telenor, has agreed that the copper network should not be switched off before broadband is in place in households. I believe that this would be a possible way forward for Sweden as well. There are targets at EU level that say that by 2020 everyone in the EU should have access to the internet at a speed of at least 30 megabits per second. I believe that Sweden could be the country in the EU that first achieves the objective. Many of the reactions that I have received after the Newscast have been that they think that the Minister for Digitalization is unclear. What does Peter Eriksson really want? He wants to raise the SOT level, and if so, when? He talks about a proper universal service, but what does that mean in practice?
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-715	Madam President, I would like Most have already stopped using copper nets. There are only more than 1 million customers left for Telia. The vast majority do not use this for telecommunications today, but use mobile phones. In addition, the decommissioning of the copper network has been going on for quite some time. The long list that Håkan Svenneling took with him over those who over the next few years will be affected would also be quite long when it comes to those who have already lost the copper network. There has been concern for many of us who have been affected. I lost mine myself a couple of years ago. I discussed the issue in a debate here in Parliament nine years ago with the then Minister, Åsa Torstensson from the Center Party. Already then the issue was discussed, and it caused concern because Telia had not solved the problems properly in all places. For example, it had not been informed. I also believe that the concern was that the transition from the old secure technology with the copper networks was uncertain to many concerned. The motive was not always that the problems had been solved and therefore the copper nets could be removed, but they were removed where it was most sparsely populated first. Telia didn't always inform you as you should. Now that the decommissioning has been going on for ten years, we have learned a great deal along the way. In addition, the technology has become much better. Many of the places – in the vast majority of localities and settlements – that are affected today are much better placed to cope with this. There are more techniques to choose from instead of the old copper grid. In the vast majority of places there is much better mobile coverage. For example, we have received 4G, which means that we have access to the internet in most places, and it is much better today than before. I think this is important, because more and more services come on the internet. People are becoming more and more dependent on having a good and functioning internet, in addition to good telephone communications. This is also the background to the adoption of a new broadband strategy just before Christmas. It greatly increased the ambition. In it we have a point to review the issue of universal service. I think it is necessary to raise the level. Then the question is how much. How far should you go? When is the time appropriate? The question of 30 megabits per second is included in the strategy as a target for 2025. Then everyone should achieve this goal. This is about the time distance that we see as possible to enable all citizens of Sweden to get this. Once PTS has received its assignment, they will report their response to us. Then we will take a position on what level we think it is now appropriate to raise the SOT limit to.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-724	Madam President, I would like As the 17-page list shows, many of Telia's switch-off of the copper network is affected, and it will happen very soon. On March 31, the first stations will start. Many feel that they get a bad ear from Telia for what position they are in. Many municipalities and municipal councillors have met Telia and have tried to conduct a dialogue. They have tried to get the company to explain why it is so important to turn off the lights on March 31, 2017. Can't Telia wait until autumn when it's finished digging and you have fiber in place? Why is it so urgent right now? I think that everyone who has these problems with Telia's switch-off and who feels that the technology transition does not work as it should contact Minister of Digitalization Peter Eriksson. If you are responsible for Sweden's digitalisation, you are also responsible for ensuring that this technology shift is done in the best way possible. I think the new broadband strategy that the government took just before Christmas is very good. The old one needed updating. It has proved effective that the policy points out the objective and that the market, municipal networks and politics can then steer in that direction. You get a common direction. Sweden also needed a new target that pointed out the whole population. This was something that the Left Party highlighted already in 2015 and that the Rural Committee picked up and proposed in spring 2016. Now the government has also made it its goal in the new strategy. This is very welcome for Sweden's rural areas. At the same time, it has been a good thing that the financial support systems have improved. In the budget that Parliament made last autumn, there is more money for broadband. It'll be a total of 1 billion. It is a broadband billion that comes to the countryside this year. I think that this money needs to be directed specifically at the 23 municipalities with extra-large challenges that the Rural Committee points out. These are mainly municipalities in the interior of Sweden. What is needed now is also a continued high rate of expansion. But the government must keep an eye on it and keep an eye on it so that the money goes to the areas where it is most needed. In fact, this has not been the case all along, but a lot of regulatory changes and red tape have caused too many village teams to expand in the areas where it is needed. I also think it is good that the broadband strategy has a target of mobile coverage, although it is a bit diffuse how this should be measured in the end. Broadband and mobile telephony are connected. If the capacity of the broadband network is expanded, mobile towers can also be improved. That is why it is particularly important, I think, that the switch-off of the copper network goes hand in hand with the roll-out of the broadband network, because then you get a good mobile connection. Just as the broadband strategy needed to be updated, the SOT level now needs to be increased. The SOT level of one megabit per second that we have today was set in 2003. At the time, Peter Eriksson was still Mayor of Kalix. I think it is good that we are now being told that it is Thursday that the Government will take a decision on this assignment to PTS. I also hope that the time that PTS will have will not be too long, but that it will have high demands to make this as effective as possible; it will be crucial for how quickly the government can prepare the matter and make decisions. Then I think we can get a development where Telia won't turn off the lights as quickly as these 17 pages show. I think we could then have a better transition between technological shifts. I would also like to highlight another issue, namely the state's own broadband ownership, which is currently spread out to various actors, in particular the Swedish Transport Agency and the company Swedish power network. The government has previously appointed an investigator who came to conclusions a year ago. I think it would be good for the government to take these proposals further and also to think about not collecting the state's broadband holdings in a single company. This would make it easier for the State to control its broadband holding.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-735	Madam President, I would like It is good that Håkan Svenneling is discussing the target of mobile coverage. I think it is very important that we have added such a goal. It hasn't existed before. It also gives very clear signals to the authorities handling this, such as the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, that we see it as incredibly important that we get good coverage across the country with stable services in the mobile network and that we get rid of the white spots that still remain in the mobile networks. When we come to deliver new frequency bands in the future, they will of course be used and exploited in a way that will improve the coverage of those areas that currently have poor coverage. From this perspective, I believe that this is one of the most important objectives of our broadband strategy. More and more of our daily use and internet connection also goes over the mobile network rather than, for example, sitting at home in the house with Wi-Fi connected to the fiber. Perhaps the mobile network is becoming more important and more important all the time. I see this as one of the most central areas. This also applies to all those people who are affected by the closure of the copper network and who may not have received fibre yet. Making sure that there are good mobile bands and mobile coverage instead provides a very good opportunity to manage this transition in a very good way.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-738	Madam President, I would like I thought I'd sum up some of the information we've been getting from the digitization minister this evening. I would perceive it as not going to do anything about the governance of Telia but that Telia is a business-driven company that is allowed to make its own decisions. There seems to be a clear no there. Nor does it seem that the minister has any intention of making an agreement between Telia and the government like the one you have in Norway, where you actually get a better technology shift in that way. Unfortunately, I have not received an answer to that this evening, but the Minister will be happy to respond to that in his last speech. It seems that the minister intends to raise the SOT level and that he wants a proposal from PTS on how to go from 1 to 30 megabits. I think it is very good that the Minister is making this position. It is clear that you would like to know exactly how it would be done, but I understand that you want to investigate how it should be done in the best possible way. I believe, above all, that it is very important to do so as soon as possible so that we can come to a decision this year. This is important not least for the technology shift to work as well as possible. I very much hope that this can be a promise that the government and the Minister keep and that you see the importance of getting this change to happen as quickly as possible. It can feel very technical and complicated for the individual, but I think that there can be very clear results when you raise the minimum level for those with the worst connection. The Minister himself belongs to those who have the worst connection in Sweden at their place of residence. I think it is important to ensure that the standard is as high as possible. I also hope that the other proposals of the Rural Committee will be heard and that the necessary measures will be taken so that Telia will slow down the switch-off of the copper network.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-743	Madam President, I would like My goal is not to stop technology change and technology shift. If we are to take political action, I would like to direct them more towards ensuring that the transition works well and that as few people as possible experience some major problems with it. It has already been such a long time in this transition that I think it would be a little strange to now make a sudden turnaround on the part of the state and say that we should force Telia to make a deal to stop the whole process or something like that. To raise the level of universal service today to 30 megabits per second would, I think, be completely unreasonable. That would not be possible in a lot of places. Today, the universal service requirement is 1 megabit per second. What PTS will investigate is probably not going directly to 30 megabits, but it is perhaps the next step. But to make a small increase that ensures that people have good access to the internet based on the conditions that exist today, I think can be a reasonable ambition.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-745	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked me what measures I have taken and intends to take to improve the link between young people in the country and the labour market. A smooth transition from school to working life is important for individuals, employers and society at large. Many employers describe their difficulties in recruiting staff with the right skills. The Swedish Enterprise's recruitment survey 2016 shows that 60 per cent of the companies surveyed who have tried to recruit people with upper secondary vocational education encounter difficulties in finding the right skills. At the same time, young people's interest in vocational training is decreasing. Upper secondary vocational programmes are the basis for industrial and welfare skills provision. Reversing the trend of decreasing interest in such programmes and improving skills supply requires several measures. The government, together with the social partners, is pursuing long-term work aimed at improving the quality and attractiveness of vocational education and training. My assessment is that many young people are cautious about choosing education that is perceived as dead ends. The reform of the upper secondary school of the former bourgeois government contained several important changes, but not everything was well. Among other things, professional students' access to higher education qualifications deteriorated. All students in vocational programmes should feel confident that they have the opportunity to study the courses required for basic eligibility for higher education. At the moment, the report (SOU 2016:77) of the Gymnasie inquiry is being discussed with proposals for professional programmes to include these courses in their basic plans. As Lotta Finstorp points out, early contact with working life is important. In its report on "Choosing a profession" (SOU 2015:97), the vocational programme inquiry proposes a number of actions that can be expected to strengthen vocational education and training, including through the setting up of so-called professional schools on an experimental basis and the mandatory provision of practical work orientation, prao, primary school and special school. The Government has in its budget bill for 2017 (prop. 2016/ 17:1) announced its intention to return to Parliament on this matter. In the case of business schools, the government has recently decided on a legislative referral containing proposals for a pilot activity aimed at strengthening national skills supply and increasing attractiveness and access to vocational training in small professional areas. Industry schools make it easier for young people to obtain qualified and specialised vocational training even if the education cannot be offered in its entirety in their municipality of residence. I believe that this solution can help to broaden the range of vocational training in small rural municipalities. The Government has also taken several other measures to strengthen the link between school and working life. Among other things, the government has introduced a state grant aimed at developing regional support functions for the interaction between school and working life on vocational education and training at upper secondary level. In addition, the National Board of Education is working to support the principals in order to improve the quality of workplace learning. In the framework of competence platforms, actors with regional development responsibilities make efforts to strengthen interaction between school and working life, but also to increase interest in education and training that matches the skills needs of the labour market, for example in sparsely populated and rural regions. Finally, I would like to mention that the Swedish ESF Council currently has a call for 100 million SEK in the field of vocational education and training. I hope that this call will be important in order to enable projects aimed at stimulating collaboration between school and working life and making it easier for young people to get in first contact with working life.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-753	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. There is something in the answer that I do not agree with at all. It is a question of the fact that, during the alliance period, professional students' access to higher education qualifications deteriorated. It's a myth. They could definitely choose courses that allowed them to go to college. But that's not really what my interpellation is about. Industry schools sound very good. I think that is something for rural communities to really take on. The Volvo step is in itself post-secondary. But it has become very good in the country. Many young people have got a job after they have completed one-year training, for example on Volvo, as in this case. The population of Sweden is ageing. In addition, the Public Employment Service's forecasts for 2010-2025 show that more people will leave the labour market than take up employment. The country's young people are really needed in the labour market. If you want the whole of Sweden to live, which I believe all parties have included in their different party declarations, we must give young people the opportunity to stay in the countryside or to go on their way to education and then come back. It is actually much bigger than the school system itself and what there is to offer. It's about attractiveness in the municipalities, remembering your childhood as something very positive for example so that you want to move there with your family, have children and so on. The challenge is very great, especially in the interior of Norrland. This means that the municipal and county council sector with care, school and care is becoming increasingly difficult to find staff, but also the manufacturing industry, just as the Minister writes in his reply. It is very good that you get a compulsory work orientation, but it does not have to be practical. Today, there are so many professions that I as a parent cannot tell my children and that the teacher may not know about either. The fact that you have a mandatory prao is very good no matter what it is. We are all shaped by the environment in which we live and live. We also have that frame of reference when we go out into adulthood. Rural municipalities must seriously start to compete with the big cities with labour. Employers must be able to offer added value in terms of jobs that provide development and stimulation. But good housing and attractive leisure time is also a necessity. Service and tax levels are also one such thing. The Rural Committee has recently presented its final report. One of the recommendations is that 10 000 state jobs in the Stockholm area should be transferred to regions in need of jobs. The challenge is that competence must be ensured in order to ensure legal certainty and equality of treatment across the country. There, good and high-quality secondary education has a key role to play in helping to move out state jobs. A few years ago, I was responsible for the place of use report produced by the Moderates. The definition of places of use is that there is a large employer plus the municipality. The Swedish Agency for Growth has also produced a report. There, most of the mills are called vulnerable municipalities, because there are so few employers. Should the big industry disappear, it will be a huge change for people who live there. There are about 100 localities in the country. What I found in the report was that syofunction is particularly important in these locations. It is a question of giving a broader picture of what the labour market looks like than just in that place. It would be very interesting to hear a little bit about the syo-function from the minister.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-761	Madam President, I would like Thank you for returning those questions from Lotta Finstorp! I thought I'd try to answer them one by one. I am happy to start with what Lotta Finstorp describes as a myth. I write in my reply that:中 Among other things, professional students' access to higher education qualifications deteriorated. ..................................................... After my very many visits to upper secondary schools and many meetings with high school students, I think I have received confirmation that the reform that was carried out made it considerably more difficult to enter higher education qualifications. The hand on the heart, Lotta Finstorp: It was also one of the purposes of it. I often try to be fair and point out that my predecessor Jan Björklund did a lot of good things. But one thing he did that was a real problem, and that was that he constantly and consistently promoted professional programmes as education for school-tired people, and it was pointed out that not everyone would become academics. Those who follow developments in upper secondary school can also easily see that for those students who have wanted to study higher education courses it has become unnecessarily difficult. These courses have usually ended up at the end of the day, perhaps after many hole hours. They have caused problems for pupils not least in rural areas, where they are dependent on school shootings to get to and from school. The proposals put forward in the Gymnasie inquiry, which are now being consulted, aim, among other things, to make it possible not only on paper but also in practice to study higher education courses. I also believe, after many discussions with pupils and parents as well as teachers, that the very signal that the professional programmes would not be preparatory to higher education has led them to be perceived as a dead end. That's a real shame. For a number of years, not only in Sweden but also in other European countries, the vocational programmes have been struggling with declining pupil litters. We need to work together to strengthen professional programmes. This is a strong interest that should be common to the parties in Parliament, just as it is to the social partners. The reason why I think it is incredibly important to strengthen professional programmes is because they are so important for the supply of skills. They are important for young people to be able to get jobs and make a living – good jobs that can lead to jobs abroad and to self-employment. However, vocational programmes are also extremely important for the supply of local and regional skills. For the possibility of a small enterprise in a depopulation area being able to survive, access to well-trained labour is perhaps the most important thing. That's what it takes to keep you alive in the city. Here, then, we have a strong common interest in genuinely ensuring that professional programmes are attractive programmes that attract large numbers of young people who can have a good future with them. The fact that upper secondary school education has become so important in the Swedish labour market shows the statistics with all the necessary clarity. Those who do not have completed upper secondary education have a much worse position in the labour market. The very point of the Volvo step that Lotta Finstorp raised is that it provides an opportunity for former students to come back. They may have failed in a former upper secondary school education, or they may have attended upper secondary school education that has not given that future thought to young people. We therefore fully agree on how important it is for upper secondary school to work for everyone and for those who start upper secondary school to have good information about what the education leads to.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-771	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for an important debate. The Minister mentioned how important it is to have access to good skills in the country. It is easier for the companies in metropolitan areas; it is not possible to get away from them. I have not read the recruitment survey of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Industry, but it showed that 60 per cent of the companies surveyed who tried to recruit people with upper secondary vocational education encounter difficulties in finding the right skills. Does the Minister know what this is about? Is it too bad a level of education and education in upper secondary school, or why? It would be interesting to know more about it. When I'm visiting the country – and I live in the middle of Sörmland, in a country – I hear that many companies find it extremely difficult to recruit not only professionals from upper secondary level but also academics. So dental recruitments have been tried. Many times when people have graduated from a university, they have found someone to live with, and then they both get jobs. It can be really hard to commute. In Sörmland it takes an hour, but there are places in Sweden that have much longer to a larger labour market. This means that many of the larger companies have huge problems finding skills. This can be linked to the interpellation debate I had with the Minister for Housing earlier. It was about building attractive living environments in the country – preferably lakeside. You can then get the competent people to move out, because they have attractive living environments. So it's all connected. The Prime Minister said in his last Christmas speech that Minister Shekarabi has been commissioned to secure the entire country's access to basic government services. This is about 10,000 jobs. Then I wonder: What must be done at upper secondary level to achieve that goal? Many administrators will not have to have an academic education, but a good upper secondary education will suffice. Will local programmes be needed to strengthen this? How to create the conditions for young people to remain in the country after completing their education? I think it's pretty healthy that you as a youth want to move away, but they are welcome to come back later. We always say to our students at home: Go away, and then you come back! Is there a need for incentives to get skills to move to where the jobs are? Is it desirable to direct young people's upper secondary school elections on the basis of the local need for labour, or is it not? Often we want our young people to be free-thinking – think new and big – but perhaps you need to manage with local programs to get people to stay and work there. I recently read about the Swedish National Agency for Education and the collaboration with Arbetsförmedlingen, which is offered to the regions and counties of the country between 2014 and 2018. It is a process education on the subject of school and working life that deals with how study and career guidance can be integrated into teaching as the responsibility of the entire school. It is about increasing knowledge about how the labour market has changed and developing collaboration and co-production externally with companies, organisations and the public sector. In Sörmland you are lyrical about this. There are 130 participants from different schools, and it is particularly important for children and young people coming from other countries – where in many cases there is a completely different labour market. I would like the Minister to say something about this. Can you use the same model for high school students who are newly arrived in Sweden, i.e. that you get much more business contacts in high school?
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-780	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp addresses a very important subject, namely the connection between upper secondary education and the working life around it – the working life of the young people in upper secondary school is actually being trained for. Within the framework of the Swedish upper secondary school, the concept is now available for vocational programmes, i.e. workplace learning. It is intended to be something wider than the old practice; it is about learning, and learning should be linked to certain goals that exist, for example, in the curriculum. There are several reasons why we work so much with workplace-based learning in upper secondary school, and I would like to explain the various initiatives that are being made to strengthen workplace-based learning. There is now a state grant that can be applied for to develop regional support functions for collaboration between school and working life; I mentioned it in my interpellation response. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to carry out training courses for supervisors and strengthen the quality of workplace learning. It is also possible to apply for support from a national APL developer. The question is why we now invest so much in workplace learning. The answer is that we know that it strengthens the quality of education. We know that it makes young people better equipped to take the jobs available in the labour market. We know, for example, from various studies by IFAU and the European Commission as well as the OECD that young people who receive good workplace learning are less at risk of unemployment and find it easier to get their first job. When you are out meeting young people on professional programmes, they almost always say that they already have summer jobs in the place where they had their APL. Not least, IFAU shows that this is important for young people who may not have much contact with them from home and that it actually strengthens their opportunities. There are also studies showing that there is a strong advantage for the companies receiving young people at the APL. These companies are easier to recruit, and they are doing well in other respects too. It is therefore very important to strengthen workplace learning. The reason why we think it is so important is that we want good interaction between school and working life and that we want to ensure that young people's education is of high quality. Unfortunately, a number of studies from the Swedish School Inspectorate show that the quality of workplace learning is lacking, so here we need to really invest and assist the authorities in improving the quality of this important part of the professional programmes. I would like to add one more aspect which makes a little bit of a difference when it comes to planning for upper secondary school. Lotta Finstorp raised the question of how important the young person's own will for the future is. Our system is built on free choice – the young man chooses his own high school programme according to his will and ability. Youth should, of course, have access to rich information and a good knowledge base through a well-functioning study and career guidance. But it is also important in the equation to take into account and ensure that young people have good knowledge of the regional need for labour! For my part, I am very open to strengthening the possibility for training providers to take account of the regional need for skills provision. This is particularly true in adult education, where the new regional vocational qualification now strengthens the opportunities to take account of regional needs in the labour market. It is a development that I think will be very beneficial for both students and working life.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-787	Madam President, I would like We have a lot of common ground, but I think there is a big challenge now, especially with many newly arrived students who come from other backgrounds and have no knowledge of what the Swedish labour market looks like. I believe that strengthening the SYV function is extremely important, especially in rural areas. In the report on places of use that I wrote with others, we saw that for generations in many places they have worked in the same place, although it is not a use in that sense but the large industry. It is to be hoped that this industry will need a workforce in the future and that it will also have to ensure that young people are trained in order to be able to take those jobs. But there will also be new jobs that my generation knows nothing about. I have a son who makes betting for e-sports. It is something that I do not know at all what it is, but it seems to be lucrative. I therefore believe that the SYV function is extremely important. But what I thought about and that I didn't get an answer to – it's possible that the Minister can't answer that now – was this with the Swedish Enterprise's recruitment survey and why they don't find the right skills. Is it because of the quality of vocational training in upper secondary school or is it simply not for young people? Young Entrepreneurship, I would also like to highlight. It's a success concept for students to think entrepreneurially and gain insight into what it's like to run a business. It is also an important part to have with you when you go to high school. Does the Minister think that entrepreneurship should be an integral part of high school? Today, it's not everywhere.
i-d6e9ac7b0b9a3dac-791	Madam President, I would like Entrepreneurship is part of several of the programmes available at upper secondary school, and I am also very much in favour of the efforts made within, for example, Young Enterprise. We seem to agree on a lot, but one thing that I think we will discuss for a long time to come is part of high school that we have barely got into. After all, we have talked about the needs of the individual, the young man, for information and knowledge when it comes to choosing the right choice in the large upper secondary market. There is also, as I see it, a great need to strengthen the possibilities for planning, not least on the basis of the needs of the working world for skills provision. Then I am talking about the concerns that we get when our school is market-driven to as great a degree as it is. This market governance risks leading to an over-supply of broad, popular programmes in strong market conditions that yield good profits to educational companies but provide relatively weak income for students who go there. The big losers are those students who do not go to vocational programmes that can lead to jobs and not least local and regional working life. Here, I think we need to take a step forward in order to strengthen the possibilities for regional planning, not least with regard to vocational programmes in upper secondary school. Behind it is, of course, that the upper secondary school is inconveniently expensive. The vocational programme of upper secondary school is characterised by the need for investment in machinery and in the form of contacts and networks of contacts with the world of work. I believe that there is, not least regionally, a great deal of interest and a great need to strengthen the planning of professional programmes. To my great pleasure, I see that this great interest is also evident within the framework of the regional professional adult, which the government has invested so much in in the autumn budget. I very much hope that this will lead to a slightly better-established cooperation between school and working life in order to strengthen access to skilled labour. Thank you very much for a pleasant debate!
