i-81f476106e4692b9-3	Good morning, Mr President. Looking deep inside for something positive to say about this government, it is, in any case, a never-ending source of ideas for people like me. To name but a few examples, which may have bearings in the KU's areas, a so-called democracy minister was first appointed with no attachment to democratic support, then a politically coloured national police chief who should be an active majority against in this House and now, most recently, an expert on Christmas must and medieval prophecies as national coordinator against violent extremism. It was someone who could hardly answer the phone, even though the line went to an organization marked by symbols that the supposedly intended rings would never deal with. This happened despite and at the same time as Sweden happens to have at its disposal the Nordic region's only associate professor in terrorism research. Mr President, I would like to Reality sometimes surpasses the poem, and I realise that the farce that characterises the government's nomination policy may be opposed to our motion. This is because our small submission only aims to provide the elected representatives with an effective and proportionate tool that can prevent directly inappropriate people from holding among the highest and most important posts in the country, without, for that reason, having to dispose of the whole government with all that it can mean in the form of extra-choice and suchlike. Precisely in the current circumstances, a whole new government would probably be the most appropriate measure. But, as you know, hope is the last thing that abandons man. It seems unlikely to me that the next government will be able to perform quite as substandardly as it is at present, but it may nevertheless be justified to review the Parliament's toolbox in the event that another government's thinking might happen to suffer a temporary lapsus in the future. Mr President, I would like to What, then, is the problem, and what is our modest proposal? Well, as everyone here knows, our Swedish government is cherished by some basic principles. I am thinking here, among other things, of the municipal self-government and ours, at least on paper, non-political government culture, the lack of ministerial government and the parliamentary power of control over the government. Most of these principles have essentially served us well and some of them still do, while others may need to be reviewed to meet current developments, including an increasing number of so-called national coordinators. That this is one, let's say, exciting and interesting development with new challenges is borne out not least by the fact that in recent years there have been no fewer than three different reviews of this invention. However, none of these seem to point to the elephant in the room and put their foot down on the issue of responsibility. Mr President, I would like to The municipal self-government is already laid down in the portal clause to the form of government and means something simplistic that the state authorities should not be able to come into the areas of municipalities and dictate how they should carry out their activities. Thus, for example, it is highly unlikely that a minister would have been able to go country and country around to instruct the municipalities how they should organise themselves to face one or the other issue, at least not without going to the KU relatively promptly. But by allowing the same minister to appoint and indirectly direct a so-called national coordinator with what is a bit nicely called a driving task, the problem of inflexible municipalities has been solved while at the same time twisting at least part of the control power out of the hands of the difficult parliament. The same message that the government itself had been forbidden to proclaim can now instead be proclaimed by a minions, all according to the principle of my servant also has a servant. Perhaps that is also why we do not want anyone too knowledgeable in the area in question. On the contrary, it is even clear that one of the success factors of a so-called national coordinator is that it should be perceived as the government's envoy and the government's voice. Instead of an obvious flagrant case of ministerial rule, we now have something similar to ministerial rule by proxy or ministerial rule by delegation. However, unlike a member of the government, no official, nor a coordinator, can be notified to or examined by the Parliament's Constitutional Committee. Suddenly, the government itself is expected to demand responsibility from its own minions and thus indirectly from itself. Then please place the coordinator directly within the walls of the Government Office, give it a sufficiently fluffy mandate on paper so that all forms of public scrutiny are severely impeded and do not account for the activities in the committee register or similar, and then we have a disastrous recipe. Mr President, I would like to We believe that this is not an optimal order, to put it a little cautiously. If the government now wants to impose its policy on the municipalities, it should at least be easy and clear to follow up on this. If you go through an intermediary, the chain of responsibility and the raw material must be clear. Thus, there is still a need to investigate how the obvious conflict of interest and the legal uncertainty that this entails can best be controlled, and how to ensure that Parliament regains its right to assume parliamentary responsibility for the use of national coordinators. Since the parliamentary element is nevertheless so significant in this context, such an investigation should be carried out by a parliamentary committee and not by a small one-man inquiry which the government itself appoints to review its own regulatory framework. Nor do I want to be as presumptuous as the government and to dictate exactly from the outset what such an investigation will result in for proposals. But one way forward could be to make the minister who has appointed the coordinator directly responsible for his actions. With a potential risk of being personally affected by KU notifications or perhaps even a motion of censure, there is a clear chain of responsibility and clear incentives to keep each coordinator under control and in tight rein. In the event of a resignation or resignation of the Government, the appointments of this appointed coordinator could also automatically expire within a period of three months. In that case, appointments extending to the formation of governments or changes of government presuppose that, during that period, a new minister takes over in writing the responsibility of the coordinators appointed by former ministers for the continued validity of those appointments. Only after obvious defiance, where new ministers continue to assume responsibility for the appointments of explicitly unwanted coordinators, can it be proportionate for us in Parliament, which today has to remove the entire government, with the subsequent round of Presidents and possibly additional elections, in order to ensure a reasonable opportunity to de-pollute manifestly inappropriate and unwanted coordinators. This could be a first small step towards overcoming a trend that is growing increasingly wild every year, Mr President. We can then come back with more suggestions on how the Riksdag could steer other deviations within both the appointing authority and too politicised administrative authorities. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-81f476106e4692b9-15	Mr President, I would like to Almost 100 years ago, Social Democrat Gustav Möller entered the Parliament as a member. Möller came from a poor home in Malmö and was a champion of social justice and democracy in this country. He was, and still is, an important person for us Social Democrats. As Minister of Social Affairs in Per Albin Hansson's government, he carried out some of Sweden's most important welfare reforms, such as child benefits and the national pension reform. It was also he who coined the now winged words Möller's words and deeds helped build Sweden and continue to characterize our work. We need to care about each other and be able to afford each other. We must have order and order in our common affairs in the administration of the state. It is guiding in our work here in Parliament, as in the Constitutional Committee, where we examine, among other things, the work of the government and the performance of the ministers' duties. We therefore welcome the government's letter on the National Audit Office's report on national coordinators as government instruments and call for approval of the Constitutional Committee's proposal for a decision. The letter describes the Government's assessment and actions in a neat and objective manner in response to the Swedish National Audit Office's observations and conclusions. It is, of course, fundamental that it should be considered as the government's task to determine how investigations deemed necessary as a basis for the government's decision should be conducted. It is therefore on the table of the Government, and not the Riksdag, to decide on matters concerning, for example, the form of investigation, i.e. whether or not a national coordinator should be given a mandate. However, we welcome the fact that the Government highlights the reviews made on the issue of coordinators and that these reviews will be important elements in the work of the Government. This is partly about the Swedish National Audit Office's report, partly about the Constitutional Committee's previous review of coordinators in different policy areas and partly about Statskontoret's report on national coordinators. It is good and orderly that the Government Office should use this in future positions on whether different coordinators should be appointed. We also welcome the fact that the government has launched a review of the criteria for the accounting of the coordinators. It is important that it is also done in order, and it is good that the government intends to return here to the Riksdag on this issue in its committee report for 2017. Mr President, I would like to As the Swedish National Audit Office writes, national coordinators can be an effective instrument. As a rule, they are given a broad and flexible mandate, which provides good opportunities for situationalisation and creates scope for developing and testing new ideas, working methods and approaches. Of course, as for senior civil servants in government, these national coordinators also have a great deal of responsibility, just as with other executives and officials who are in state service. In this context, it may therefore be worth recalling the traditional Swedish official ideal with independence and integrity as important guiding stars. In Sweden we have a system in which we distinguish within the state framework between people with political positions of trust and the many non-political officials in government offices, authorities and works. Just as it rests on political elected representatives to act politically and democratically on the basis of electoral promises, party programmes and citizens' mandates, it rests on the many civil servants in government and government to act legally and with integrity and independence to prepare, support and implement the ambitions expressed by the elected political representatives. This system, which means that we distinguish between these roles, has benefited Sweden for a long time. It has contributed to continuity, long-termness, knowledge building and efficiency. It has simply been good for Sweden and it is still good. This can be compared and contrasted with a recent example: the United States, where many party-politically linked officials and executives in the administration are more common. As Professor Jan Olsson has described it, such solutions have their limitations. He says that if thousands of employees were to be appointed politically, it would be very unwieldy and would pose major problems for the continuity of management in the context of majority changes. This is something that we often see during presidential shifts in the American capital. If this were to be translated into our country, it would not be conducive to continuity or efficiency. On the contrary, it is hitting precisely this and increasing the costs for Sweden, for the citizens and for taxpayers. Mr President, I would like to We do not want Sweden to develop in such a direction, either in small or larger steps. That is why we say no to motion 2016/ 17:3534 from the SD, which proposes that officials as national coordinators should automatically stop when a minister leaves. It risks leading to a politicisation of officials, and that would be breaking with the good Swedish tradition we have had in the administration for a very long time and which has benefited Sweden well. Here it may also be worth noting in particular that the Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that national coordinators are more likely to achieve the desired results if the issues they are responsible for can be depoliticised and do not appear to be party separation. Politicisation of their mission would therefore not benefit the possibility of achieving results either. In addition, such a proposal as that contained in the motion could mean that national coordinators were considered to be elevated to a higher level of administration and that they could be given similar status as a State Secretary. This, too, is one reason why we say no to the exercise. We do not see any point in SD's proposal to create such a general increase and increase in managers at this level in the administration. Mr President, I would like to Finally, it is good and orderly that the government has taken a clear impression both of the previous review of the Constitutional Committee and of the reports of the Swedish National Audit Office and Statskontoret. I would therefore like to reiterate our support for the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-81f476106e4692b9-30	Mr President, I would like to We are now dealing with KU13 on the Swedish National Audit Office's report and the government's letter on national coordinators as government instruments. We add the Government's letter to the documents while proposing to reject a motion by the Swedish Democrats to set up a parliamentary committee on national coordinators. When the Swedish National Audit Office has now looked at the national coordinators, it did so quite soon after a review that Statskontoret carried out in 2014, and the review that KU did in its autumn review 2015/ 16, KU10 as it is called. It turns out, in fact, in all these reviews, that national coordinators and different forms of coordinators – they have a variety of names – are increasingly being used as a tool. Fredrik Eriksson used to call this a way of dealing with unruly municipalities. That is not at all how I have understood it, but it has been about coordinating important issues, to be able to give good examples from other municipalities, to spread a type of knowledge and to provide research data to all these municipalities that do not have the opportunity to produce their own research. It is therefore a way to use resources much better and to provide support to a variety of municipalities, authorities, county boards and regions so that you do not have to invent the wheel each time. Instead, one can take support from one another to pursue important policies. All these reviews that we have carried out in the KU and that Statskontoret and now also the Swedish National Audit Office have made have landed in the conclusions that a coordinator can be a good instrument in matters involving several actors. It may also be important to quickly get an active force on important issues from the government. For most, a flexible mandate has been important. It is a prerequisite for the results to be good. But here you can also see that sometimes it can lead to a bit of ambiguity. However, the Swedish National Audit Office does not make any recommendations, despite its solid work. However, we have noted within the committee that the Government Office has launched a review of the criteria for accounting in the committee report and register – this after the remarks we made in the KU in our autumn review. I would also like to say something about setting up a parliamentary inquiry to review this with coordinators. A parliamentary inquiry often takes a lot of time. It costs a lot of money. And it is something that is used in major political strife or whether it directly affects the political system. This is often the case when a parliamentary inquiry is needed. Setting up a parliamentary inquiry to review the government's toolbox is, I think, a little overkill, especially after three fairly extensive reviews have now been carried out in a row. Now the Government Office also starts a small review and makes some minor changes. Mr President, I would like to I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-81f476106e4692b9-38	Mr President, I would like to I want to thank Agneta. I think we really agree on a lot here. The use of parliamentary investigations has increased, and in recent years the focus on how that tool is used has become slightly different. Perhaps that is precisely what has led to the fact that as many as three different reviews have been set up in quite a short time. It surely shows that there is some interest in the issue. It's not completely clear. I would therefore like to ask Agneta Börjesson and the government representatives why they do not want to look more closely at the issue of responsibility, which was one of the views of the Swedish democrats. When the question was up in the KU, we discussed this quite a lot, back and forth. All the investigations, all the reviews that have been made, have more or less actively ducked for it. Agneta Börjesson says that parliamentary investigations are something that is used on fundamentally important issues. Then I have to ask: Isn't Parliament's control over what the government is doing an important issue? Shouldn't it be very clear what's going on?
i-81f476106e4692b9-42	Mr President, I would like to The parliamentary power of control is extremely important. We will soon be discussing the scrutiny of the Ombudsmen. We are dealing with the reports of the Swedish National Audit Office. We sometimes get to take part in Statskontoret's review – it is one of the government's auditing bodies, but we get to know their reports. And we have the KU that reviews the government. I would therefore say that we are a good control force in Sweden, with a very long history as well. When it comes to setting up a parliamentary inquiry to look at something that I feel is the responsibility of the government – to set up investigations, in the ministries and individual investigations – it is the government that needs to be developed. We can point out when we see ambiguity. So has the KU. And we see that the government is taking it to heart.
i-81f476106e4692b9-44	Mr President, I would like to Again, I and Agneta Börjesson still agree that there is a long tradition of this and that it is an important issue that has received a lot of attention. But nothing in life is static. It is precisely in the light of a change in how the tools are used that the Swedish Democrats believe that one should perhaps review what tools the Riksdag should have to match this. We can talk about a certain amount of volunteering. We can talk about knowledge transfer. Then we can in itself question why you do not choose to appoint someone who is trained in the field, if you now want to work with knowledge transfer. However, my question is boiled down to the following: Suppose that it was a member of the government who went around making the same statements as a coordinator now does, would Agneta Börjesson have any problems with that? And if so, what had it caused?
i-81f476106e4692b9-47	Mr President, I would like to I'm not sure I understand the question. It is quite important, even for ministers, to go around the country and tell about government policy. The national coordinators are, of course, grunting on a specific issue, with a specific mission. It may be that you are either a driving force to provide the municipalities with research data so that they can start an important work that the government would like to see them do. And you can have special money set aside to provide incentives to get that work going. I think it would be difficult for ministers to have time to do just that.
i-81f476106e4692b9-49	Mr President, I would like to We in the Constitutional Committee have taken note of the Swedish National Audit Office's review report on national coordinators as government instruments. We have also taken note of the government's opinion on this report. First of all, I would like to point out that we in the Constitutional Committee, through the KU Chancellor, as part of the autumn review in 2015, carried out a comprehensive survey of how different governments have used national coordinators. It is one of the government's forms of work to inventory, investigate, negotiate and try to solve various societal problems. The Swedish National Audit Office has been able to use this survey as a basis for its review. This was completed in autumn 2016. Statskontoret has also investigated the national coordinators. The conclusions reached by the Swedish National Audit Office are similar to those reached earlier by the KU. National coordinators are a collective approach to various types of investigative tasks that have generally been given different designations by the government. Both the KU and the Swedish National Audit Office have found that the form of work is mainly suitable for the tasks that have been decided and implemented. I do not share the views of Fredrik Eriksson and the Swedish Democrats on the national coordinators and their working methods. They have no decision-making power on behalf of the government; they are mainly investigators and negotiators. Statskontoret and the Swedish National Audit Office do not share the views of the Swedish Democrats on this either. The Swedish National Audit Office has found that the coordinators have generally received broad and flexible assignments. It has essentially worked well. At some point there have been unclear responsibilities. However, the report submitted by the Swedish National Audit Office has not led to any recommendations to the Government. The KU has also noted that the Government Office has launched a review of how the national coordinators should be presented in the committee report, in order to make it more comprehensive. Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee rejects the motion by the Swedish Democrats on national coordinators. I propose that the Parliament and the KU add the letter of the Government to the record.
i-81f476106e4692b9-56	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by calling for the Swedish Democrats' reservation 1 on paragraph 2 of this report to be approved. This year, the committee has not really reached a consensus on the reports before us. The Swedish Democrats would have liked a parliamentary inquiry to have taken a holistic approach to the Parliament's head office for the JO and its handling of the government's complaints. However, a majority in the committee wants to postpone such a decision only when the investigation into the Swedish National Audit Office is completed. Nevertheless, before I proceed with my speech, I would like to thank the members of the committees of the other parties for their otherwise good cooperation. Well, the Ombudsman for Justice can be said to be the main representative of the public when it comes to contact with the public, and that is a good thing. However, because of this important work, the JO must refrain from the other important assignment it has. Namely working with self-initiated inspections and supervision. This is something that the Parliamentary Ombudsmen have regretted both in this report and in previous years. Worse still, in this year's letter, the JO itself states that the Authority strengthened its assessment of what should be considered as a complaint compared with the previous one. The Swedish Democrats drew attention to this problem in a special opinion last year and also allocated SEK 25 million per year to JO's own supervisory activities in our budget exercise. Mr President, I would like to In addition, there have been additional circumstances this year that strengthen our view that a holistic approach must be taken about the authority. In his report on the Swedish National Audit Office, JO Hans-Gunnar-Gunnar Axberger stated earlier that a strengthening of the Riksdag's head office for better governance and follow-up of its authorities could be extended to the JO office. The Swedish Democrats had also wished that the national institution of human rights, according to the so-called Paris principles that the government wants to establish in Sweden, would instead end up within an already existing government structure. This is something that many consultation bodies such as the Parliamentary Ombudsman, the National Police Board and the Migration Board agreed with. A future investigation could usefully consider whether such a function should not be under the authority of the Ombudsman for Justice. Mr President, I would like to Taking into account what I just said, I repeat that a parliamentary composite inquiry should be convened to analyse and review, among other things, the JO's priority of complaints and how the Riksdag's role as principal of the JO should function, what resources should be available for parliamentary authority support and supervision of the JO and whether an institution within the authority should be established. Mr President, I would like to The committee rejects the Swedish Democrats' motion to investigate the JO. As the sole justification, the other parties state that there may indeed be reasons to investigate matters concerning the agency, but that we should first investigate the Swedish National Audit Office. The central question, of course, is: Why? Why should we wait? In my world, the arguments of the other parties against investigating the JO are already becoming nothing more than a solid logical hill change. Our starting point is, unlike the rest of the committee, that problems should be identified and resolved before they even arise, while other parties on this issue and in many others rather feel the opposite.
i-BeJVRf3oZUWfkNXU4XZ3Mf	Mr President, I would like to The KU11, or the official report of the Parliamentary Ombudsmen of Justice, is dealt with annually by the Constitutional Committee. In connection with the transmission of the story, which relates to the period 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016, the committee has an open live hearing with the ombudsmen. This has also happened this parliamentary year. It can be said that the Ombudsman's report is as a receipt for what works and does not work in our society. I am struck by the importance of having the Ombudsmen to be able to turn to just when something is not right. People get caught when society is not enough for various reasons. JO notifications should lead to improvements. I am thinking of Lars Lindström's case concerning the formulation of judgments and decisions in court. The justification of the judgments is of fundamental importance from the point of view of legal certainty and confidence in the activities. This has also Lars mentioned earlier in the official report 2013/ 14. In the opinion of Lars, in two cases, it is not possible to assess whether the judgments are correct on the basis of the written judges. Therefore, the pleas in law do not meet the requirements of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The judges in charge are being criticised. The judgment shall also contain a statement of the forms of order sought by the parties and the facts invoked by them. Another issue concerns the length of custody proceedings in district courts. The fact that in some cases it has taken around two years to decide which parent should have custody of the children is something that JO Lars Lindström, criticizes this year too. It is not only the parties who are affected by the way the work in the Court is done, but it is primarily the children who are affected. It is of course never good to have a long court proceedings but in these cases it is extremely important to come up with a faster solution so that the child does not have time to become adult before the case is settled. The main reasons for taking such time are the lack of an established timetable followed by the inadequate control of how, when there are mediators, they have carried out their task. This is where the district court gets criticism. Mr President, I would like to Former Head of the JO Elisabet Fura points out a case involving serious criticism of the Prison Service because it has not designed procedures for checking that the basis for detention is maintained. The decision concerns a person who had been detained in absentia and then taken to custody. Under the applicable provisions, a detention hearing would have taken place within four days of the execution of the detention order. For unclear reasons, there was never any negotiation and therefore no legal basis to keep the prisoner detained after the four days had passed. Despite this, the inmate remained in custody for another six weeks. In its reply to the JO, the Prison Service pointed out that the Authority has no formal responsibility to report to the prosecutor or court when a detention order has been executed. In addition, the Correctional Service stated that it is not possible for a detention centre to assume routine security responsibilities for keeping all clients' procedural time limits. According to the opinion of JO Fura, what emerged in the case gave the impression that the Prison Service did not want to take on the central role of the Authority in the detention of people. By not doing so, the Authority has not designed procedures to ensure that employees make the necessary checks on the legal basis for keeping a person locked up. Being detained without a legal basis is, in my opinion – let alone what it does for confidence in the rule of law! Mr President, I would like to I will also end by mentioning something about JO Cecilia Renfors' responsibilities regarding decisions concerning the need for protection of information on plaintiffs in pre-trial records and the relationship with the right of the suspect to access the evidence for the decision on prosecution. In one case, the plaintiff has a classification mark in the population register when she needed protection from her former husband. During the preliminary investigation into a crime suspect against him, she changed her last name. When the pre-trial report was served on the man, her new surname was given, which meant security risks for the woman. However, the procedure was correct as the name of a plaintiff should always be indicated in the pre-trial report and the suspect has an unconditional right to access the protocol. The reason the rules look like this is that the suspect needs to know the identity of the plaintiff in order to be able to defend himself effectively. JO Renfors notes, however, that when the identity is already known, there is no reason for the suspect to know the new name to which the plaintiff has changed during the investigation. JO Cecilia Renfors has also submitted her decision to the Ministry of Justice as it would have to be considered whether the current regulation should be amended on this point. Mr President, I would like to We, on the committee's part, have previously stated that the examination of complaints – which is part of the work of ombudsmen – should be given priority in relation to other tasks, as this is the main objective of the JO. Of course, it is also important for ombudsmen to be able to carry out specific inspections, and so far the ombudsmen have handled that well, as we believe is the case in the future. Mr President, I would like to With this speech, I would like to endorse the committee's proposal to add the report to the file.
i-81f476106e4692b9-83	Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee has now prepared the JO's official report, and several have made reflections on this. Last year there was an increase of 9 per cent compared to the previous year. This means 8 040 new registrations of cases, which is 687 more than the year before, so the JO has to do. Most of the cases that come in are complaints from individuals; there were over 7,000 such cases. JO also makes impact, for example, if something has been noticed in the media and if there is a referral from any authority. In addition, JO conducts inspections. Most cases relate to social services, and above all to custody investigations, as has been mentioned earlier. JO says that custody matters are difficult to handle, because they are incredibly infected and it is difficult to get an objective assessment of what it is all about. The number of LSS cases has also increased by 113, which is 16 per cent more than last year. There are major municipal shortcomings in the handling of these cases. JO notes that there are shortcomings in communication, documentation, justification and the right to party transparency. The lack of the explanatory memorandum, which justifies why the decision will be as it is in the case of an LSS application, is particularly serious. If you get a rejection, you need to know it's well-founded. The JO concluded that there were a number of shortcomings in this area in 2015. Unfortunately, the deficiencies in 2016 are the same as in the past, but worse. In the areas of the Act on the Care of Young People and the Act on the Care of Addicts, there are the same concerns as in the LSS with shortcomings in the management. In autumn 2015 many people came to Sweden. Of course, it has contributed to a crowded situation where it is difficult to obtain resources and where there is a shortage of staff to investigate these issues. However, this is extremely important because it concerns people's very immediate questions. Here, too, a tightening up is required. The National Board of Institutional Affairs has a residence for compulsory care and treatment. For these there is queue, which is serious because it means that young people do not receive the care and treatment they need. The courts have also been mentioned before. Even there, as with LSS, it is important to have good reasons in court. People should be able to understand why they are being judged, and even people who do not belong to them should be able to understand what it says and why it became as it turned out. There is a breadth in the JO's review areas. Among other things, Lantmäteriet has been reviewed, as there are very long processing times. It was found that this was due to a lack of surveyors. Now, however, an education has been started in Umeå. So it helps to point things out. The Social Insurance Agency has also received a reprimand on the issue of reimbursement for healthcare abroad. Such cases should be dealt with within 90 days, but 2 000 cases had not been dealt with within this period. This is unacceptable. Furthermore, there is the issue of enforcement cases, which are about when the police are to execute expulsions. Neither legal texts nor preparatory work provide information on the powers of the police in such matters. The question has been handed over to the Justice Department. There are some further questions that have been submitted to the Government Office and the Ministries for further action. Freedom of expression and press, as well as publicity and confidentiality are also KU areas. Stefan Holgersson says that the kind of complaints that apply when you don't get public papers are unfortunately so common that they can't be given the corresponding space in the official report. It's tough and it gets stuck, you talk about confidentiality and so on. This really is something to take to heart. I would like to support the committee's proposal that the Parliamentary Parliament should add to the record of the Parliamentary Assembly's official record.
i-81f476106e4692b9-97	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the KU11, the Ombudsman's report. The history of the Ombudsmen of Justice runs parallel to that of the KU – it is a long story. Most people know that the idea of ombudsmen is a Swedish invention, which is gradually spread around the world. Almost everywhere you come, you can see that a new Ombudsman has taken up a new role that is extremely important for democracy in that particular country. We can be proud of this. Since we had the very first ombudsmen in the 18th century, who were not the Parliamentary Ombudsmen, the Ombudsmen's function has, of course, developed considerably. Today it is easy to submit a complaint to the JO online. The function is much more well known. The business year runs from 1 July to 30 June, and according to this year's report, 8 040 cases were received. Many of these may not be heavily powdered. It's probably pretty quick to read through them and see that they can be put aside. But a lot of them require a lot of work from the Ombudsmen. The most important decisions are gathered in a thick book, which is really interesting reading. From the previous speaker, we have heard many of the interesting examples mentioned by the Ombudsmen in their official report. These are important decisions. What I find interesting in this year's report is that this time a little more clearly describes which cases are handed over to the ministries for an additional review and where one feels that the government needs to review the legislation or change the rules. In the past, the same has been done, and when we have asked, the Ombudsmen have announced that the departments take these remarks very seriously and that changes are being made. This time, however, this is made a little clearer in the official report, which I think is a good thing. This enables us politicians to follow the work in the future and also to understand how it is that the government is setting up various investigations. We see that there is a background. In the official report from last year there was quite a lot of criticism of the municipalities' handling of building permits and social services in particular. You can see that this trend also exists this year. There is a lot of criticism in this area and in relation to Lantmäteriet. The processing times at Lantmäteriet are very long, not least because there are no staff. We understood this when we asked the Ombudsmen questions about this. There is also a lack of staff on municipal building boards and county administrative boards for appeals. There, the processing times will be extremely long. We are pleased to see that the departments are making changes and that they are listening carefully to the Ombudsmen. We are also pleased to see that an investigator has been appointed to assist the Ministry of Justice in investigating and proposing measures that take a long time to disclose public documents. I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-81f476106e4692b9-106	Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee has taken note of the Ombudsman's report. It covers the period from 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016. The report is a great book, as Agneta said. However, the Constitutional Committee has also met with the Ombudsmen of Justice and at that meeting had their views on the functioning of the Government of Sweden. That is what the Ombudsmen are looking at. During this year, a little more than 8,000 cases were registered with the JO. This represents a fairly large increase in the number of cases – around 9%. 32 inspections were carried out on the activities of different authorities. The number of cases closed was slightly over 8,100, an increase of 12%. As a result, more cases have been dealt with than have been received, and the balance of cases has fallen to 933 as of 30 June 2016. The balance of cases therefore corresponds to a little more than a month's work within the agency. A rather extensive task for our Ombudsmen is to respond to referrals. Last year they had 155 such cases to comment on, most of them from the Government Office. In June last year, at the proposal of the KU, the Swedish Parliament elected Justice Council Elisabeth Rynning to succeed Elisabet Fura as Chief Parliamentary Ombudsman. During the year, Stefan Holgersson was also elected new Ombudsman. In the case of health care complaints, the Ombudsmen of Justice point to the problems of IVO, the Health Inspection, which is the regular authority responsible for handling complaints in this area. Unfortunately, the processing times within the Office are so long that the Ombudsmen have received many complaints about IVO, which is supposed to be an audit authority. They are unable to cope with their enforcement and complaint handling. Of course, this is a totally unacceptable situation for IVO in terms of its work, but of course it is primarily an unacceptable situation for patients who complain to IVO. Here the Ombudsmen give a strong signal to the government. As far as the police and the Migration Agency are concerned, there are, of course, also a large number of complaints to the Ombudsmen, and this, of course, reflects the situation of problems with the quality of the case handling and the processing times within the police and the Migration Agency. These problems have been brought to the attention of the government by the Ombudsmen of Justice. Mr President, I would like to I propose that the Parliamentary Assembly include the Parliamentary Assembly's official report in the form proposed by the Constitutional Committee.
i-81f476106e4692b9-111	Mr President, I would like to The Ombudsman for Justice is part of the parliamentary control. On the JO's website, the main purpose of its activities is to promote legal certainty. In particular, the JO shall ensure that public authorities and courts comply with the provisions of the government form on impartiality and objectivity and that public activities do not infringe the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. In this supervisory work, the JO checks that the authorities handle their cases and otherwise perform their tasks according to the regulations in force. I would say that the JO is a citizen's watchdog as well as a knight against the Swedish Government. Every autumn, the JO submits its report on the work during the last financial year. This is the report we are discussing. The report notes that the examination of complaints involves the bulk of the processing resources. The number of inspections and other audits at the JO's own initiative is at the same level as in the previous year but still less than the Authority itself would like. 8 040 cases were newly registered during the period, which means an increase of good 9 per cent compared to the previous year. Despite the increase in the number of incoming cases, the number of closed cases also increased from the previous year. We can therefore see that the effectiveness of the JO has increased, which is commendable. Despite this, and despite all the previous speeches by my honourable colleagues, in which they have wisely explained the matter, I would nevertheless like to raise a number of cases which were particularly relevant to me in this year's report. We can also read in this official report about shortcomings in local government case management as well as a continued need for competence development in the local government sector regarding, among other things, the application of central administrative law rules. In their role as an employer, municipalities have the responsibility to ensure that municipal employees have the necessary skills and resources to carry out their duties and to maintain a good standard of administrative law. Like last week's debates with the KU, where the matter concerned the examination of the duties of the ministers and the handling of government matters, we can note here that much of the work carried out by the JO shows that the time taken by the authorities is too long, that the decisions are incomplete and complicated to understand, and that this together leads to additional work. The time spent by this additional work could have been spent by the JO on self-initiated inspections and audits. In this way, suffering could have been spared to our citizens. For me, however, the most frightening reading was what said about the decision regarding a person who had been detained – the same case that Veronica Lindholm presented. There, serious criticism has been levelled at the Prison Service. For unclear reasons, negotiations were never held. As a result, there was no legal basis for keeping the prisoner in custody after the established four days passed. The inmate remained in custody for another six weeks. It is clear that the penal services here have not taken on the role that the authority should play in the detention of people. This is, of course, completely indefensible, and it shows once again the importance of the JO to clarify such serious abuses for us and the government, so that they can be addressed. It is a central issue of the rule of law that no one is in detention without a legal basis. The government should therefore carefully consider the need for legislative changes or other measures to address this. In this year's official report there are also six decisions concerning healthcare according to LVU. The criticism is often about shortcomings in the quality of investigations in terms of both the social services' conclusions and investigation methodology. The JO notes that although it seems that errors may have been made, the investigations often contain such a large measure of pure assessment that it is difficult to make comments from a JO perspective. Such cases are therefore often dismissed on the grounds that there are insufficient grounds for initiating an investigation. So much remains to be done in this area too in order to safeguard citizens' rights. Since 1809 I have been taught, there is reason to come back to the matter of the work of the Parliamentary Ombudsmen, but for this year of office I request approval of the committee's report.
i-81f476106e4692b9-118	Mr President, I would like to In today's debate, we will handle the government's letter entitled Action Plan 2016 – 2018 to protect children from human trafficking, exploitation and sexual abuse. The purpose of the action plan is to describe how Sweden wants to work to build violations against children and effectively protect children. In addition, perpetrators will be prosecuted, and we will give the children who have been sadly subjected to these crimes the support and help they so badly need. When you read about what terrible deeds children are subjected to, both here in Sweden and in other countries, you are appalled, sad and finally frankly pissed off. Our task as elected representatives in the Swedish Parliament is to protect our citizens from abuse and violations. This applies to all residents, not just adults, but especially our children. Furthermore, I dare to say that this issue is an issue that unites all parties across party boundaries in a strong conviction that we must do everything we can to prevent children and adults from being subjected to human trafficking, exploitation and sexual abuse. The Action Plan also provides an account of the investigations that have worked on issues related to the area covered by the Action Plan, including the work of the Human Trade Investigation and the Sexual Crime Committee. A review of the penal provisions has also been carried out with regard to contact with children for sexual purposes. All these investigations have completed their missions and many sensible proposals have been put forward. Some of these have been included in the Action Plan, while most of the proposals are currently being prepared within the Government Office. We in the Moderates look forward with great anticipation to the legislative proposals that should come shortly on these issues. Mr President, I would like to By its very nature, an action plan is quite horizontal and shows the direction of the policy in this case between 2016 and 2018. The more concrete legislative proposals or legislative changes will come at the next stage. We in the Moderates believe that the action plan is well worked out and a good step in the right direction in a very important area of justice policy. Taking in knowledge of the extent of these crimes, giving our law enforcement authorities the best conditions to work and coordinate efforts between authorities are important steps to be able to combat seriously trafficking in human beings, exploitation and sexual abuse of children. Together with the proposals made by the above-mentioned studies, we can lay a good foundation in this area. We welcome this in the Moderates. Mr President, I would like to I mentioned earlier in my speech the importance of protecting both children and adults from this type of abuse and abuse. Perhaps this is also the obvious shortcoming of the letter, although it is a minor shortcoming: it deals only with the protection of children in relation to these crimes. On the very complex issue of human trafficking, we in the Moderates and our alliance colleagues in the Center Party, Liberals and Christian Democrats would have liked to have seen a more comprehensive and more integrated approach through a national action plan for all human trafficking regardless of whether it concerns children or adults. The investigation into trafficking in human beings has made many good proposals that could have been worked into a joint national action plan. This is also the basis for our joint alliance reservation in the report, reservation 11, which I naturally support. Having said that, however, the letter is a positive step in the right direction with good and appropriate measures and intentions to prevent trafficking in children. Mr President, I would like to It should be mentioned that one possible reason for my and my party's positive attitude to the letter is that we in the Committee on Justice have dealt with many of these issues in the past. As early as 2010, the Alliance Government initiated a new design of the trafficking offence. The Alliance parties have also submitted requirements for national action plans before the national meetings. Trafficking in human beings and, in particular, trafficking in children involves not only the whole committee but also many Members of Parliament outside our committee. For this reason, a majority in the committee has also addressed a number of announcements to the government with a view to bringing about changes in legislation in this area. The announcements concerned:
i-81f476106e4692b9-126	consideration of raising the penalty minimum by removing fines on the scale of penalties in the event of serious cases of sexual service purchases; More effective legislation on sexual contact with children 中 that the penalty for contact with children for sexual purposes must be tightened up. These announcements have since been dealt with in the work of the Sexual Crime Committee, the work of the Human Trade Investigation, various ministry memos, and not least in this Action Plan. We in the Moderates believe that it is good that the government heeds the announcements addressed to the Government by the Committee of Justice and the Swedish Parliament. In this case, I also believe that the government parties did not come up against far too much resistance to implement the measures in accordance with the announcements. The will to do something in this area is an issue that unites all parliamentary parties. Let us together make the best possible effort to enable children to grow up without the risk of human trafficking, exploitation or sexual abuse. Mr President, I would like to I hereby support our Amendment No 11.
i-81f476106e4692b9-131	Mr President, I would like to When we have debated various reports in which the Swedish Democrats have proposed more stringent penalties, we have often been portrayed by you other parties as a party that only wants to raise the penalties for everything and everyone, in time and out of time. It is not often that I have to give you the right to other parties, but on this point you are in fact right. It is an approach that we have, but it is not an unprincipled approach, but a principled approach, in which the starting point is that social liberal forces in our country have been allowed to formulate laws, rules and case law for a very long time. From this point of view, there is no alternative but to tighten penalties in principle in each area. When it is written about different sentences in newspapers and when we see which criminals are being released from our prisons – if they even get a prison sentence today – the reactions of the public are usually shocking, not to mention the cases where there has been a human victim. I have heard quite a lot of victims' reactions, and they often feel that sentences imposed in our country are a joke and a repetition of the violation that the criminal has committed to the victim, although this time it is society that is violating the victims of crime with too low penalties. And it is precisely with the victim as the starting point that we Swedish democrats have designed our criminal policy. The rest of you focus very much on declarations of injustice in society, on social measures and class society analyses. The same type of response was also repeated by Anders Ygeman as late as last Thursday on my question about renewed crime statistics. According to the government, immigrants' over-representation in crime statistics has social causes. Of course, what social causes cause a strong overrepresentation in sexual crimes among foreign-born people is a difficult equation for the government to explain. But all of this shows a blind spot in the government. One lacks a clear victim perspective. You don't want to see the root causes of crime. There is no doubt that at any given time, the class society is to blame rather than to blame those who commit crimes. Despite this blind spot, however, the social debate succeeds with pressure from the opposition, perhaps mainly the Swedish Democrats, to get the government to act between shipyards. And although it is often toothless and too soft tightening, it is still something positive. For several years, the Swedish Democrats have been pushing for the victim perspective to permeate the area of sexual crimes against children. The primary aspect of punishment must never be the criminal's perspective – it must be the victim's perspective. When it comes to crimes such as the sexual harassment of children, minor child pornography offences or the purchase of sexual acts by children, it is you other parties in this House who have, throughout all the years, had free leeway to shape the penalties for these crimes. What you have landed in together is that fines are a reasonable punishment for those crimes. The fact that fines are a reasonable punishment for perpetrators who may have left a mark on the rest of the life of a victim is, of course, something that the Swedish Democrats can never accept. If you have the crime victims as a starting point, today's low penalty is a joke – it's a renewed violation of society against the victims. It is with this starting point in mind that we stand firm that fines should be removed from the scales of penalties and that the maximum level should be increased for these crimes. Mr President, I would like to We can also see that some alliance parties have reservations that are approaching the position of the Swedish Democrats. That, of course, is something positive. One problem, however, is that there are forces within the Alliance that actively oppose the Swedish Democrats or the parties within the Alliance that want to approach the direction of the Swedish Democrats. The committee could tighten the penalties even further when it comes to sexual offences against children. But it is primarily the Center Party that does not want to see any such talks between the Swedish Democrats and the alliance parties that want to tighten the penalties. I think that this report can be a reflection for the voters in the cottages. The Center Party offers an opportunity to give children who are victims of sexual crimes a substantial restoration because for some reason the Center Party does not want the Alliance to coordinate its reservations with the Swedish Democrats. If the Red-Green Government is to be hanged out because it lacks a victim perspective for ideological reasons, I have to say that the stance of the Center Party in this case is even worse. My call is as always: Try to coordinate within the Alliance where you want to come closer to the policy of the Swedish Democrats! Then your proposals will become reality with the support of the Swedish Democrats. Of course, it will be even better if we are allowed to take part in developing the proposals from the outset. A new call on my part is that one should really be hard on when individual parties within the Alliance want to put an end to conversations with the Swedish Democrats, which in this case could have led to children who are victims of sexual crimes being given a serious remedy. Parties who do not want to take responsibility for the development of society should face the consequences of those parties who are prepared to take responsibility. Mr President, I would like to We are in favour of our reservations, but in this debate, for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 5. I call on more parties to do so, with or without the permission of the Center Party.
i-81f476106e4692b9-145	Mr President, I would like to Trafficking in human beings is a disgusting crime, if that's what we all agree. Sexual abuse is a disgusting crime. It is already when it comes to adults. When these crimes are directed at children, it feels like the heart breaks. It is simply a terribly cruel crime that must be combated effectively and tirelessly. It is a good thing that the government is presenting the action plan and, on the whole, it is a matter of reasonable and relevant measures. The goals are and should be that no child should have to be exposed. But the means require that all the various functions and institutions of society addressed in the government's letter can be expected to have the ability to deliver. The police are, of course, central to this, as are other, law enforcement. And there are big questions about the police's ability to cope with even the basic level of security in some parts of the country. We need to understand that this situation needs to be steered up in order for an action plan on this urgent subject, or other things, to have some real weight. The police are under a lot of pressure. Last week I was in Malmö. Malmö has three of the areas that the police have identified as a particular priority, but it does not feel that any effect has occurred from any such priority. Last year 156 criminal shootings took place in Malmö – 156. Seven of them had a fatal outcome. In addition, many are injured and perhaps marked for life. Gang crime is tying a grip on these parts of Sweden. In practice, the law does not apply in those neighbourhoods. It does not protect anyone, and it has gone so far that crime has moved out on the streets. The criminals are no longer afraid to get caught. The police are somewhere else. They have something else they have to do. Sure, it's not all night black. We see a long-term trend where security is increasing and crime is decreasing. But this is not the case in Rosengård and in the other areas where another reality prevails. Those who live there are also part of the society that is worth protecting. I'm sure the cops will do what they can. But when we were there on Monday, they told us that there are 13 police officers there who can investigate serious crimes. Then you should know that the police's own method document determines the importance of a large number of employees with different skills coming into the investigation early on. A so-called PUG group normally consists of 25 to 30 people. This should be compared to today's reality: 13 police officers in Malmö who can investigate serious crimes. The government's way of controlling the police impresses, frankly, not. I believe that major changes are necessary. The police must feel that they have the ability to do a good job, and more police are needed to ensure security. In these contexts, I tend to remind you of the need for resources. Since I first brought the matter up at the beginning of last year, a great deal has happened. In the Alliance, we agreed early on the need for resource reinforcements, and in the end the government also realised that this was the case and announced an investment in the police. Unfortunately, the essential elements of the government's efforts are only after the next elections. People's security is already under threat, and it seems to be getting worse in some places. By way of comparison, we in the Center Party are already allocating 520 million this year in our budget motion. The government only spends 100 million. The reasons for this are often claimed to be that training new police officers takes two and a half years. It's true. But there is another side to the staff challenge, namely those who quit or those who, after all, are now considering doing so. Resources must be made available to steer the work situation and the conditions for them. Resources are also needed for other things that might not have been needed if the police had full staffing. But they are required in an extraordinary situation to ensure security. If we fail to do this and if we fail to secure the functioning of the rule of law – ensuring compliance with the law and the prosecution of criminals – any action plan lacks value and relevance, Mr President. Mr President, I would like to It is normally preferable to separate control functions from those responsible for execution. There is no reason to believe that the police would mismanage the national rapporteur, but an independent and independent rapporteur is a better principle. It is also of the utmost importance that coordination between different parts of society works well in dealing with these important issues, and there is a potential weakness in the fact that one of the partners in such collaboration has the problem formulation. In addition to this, the police currently have a lot to work with in many different law enforcement areas. And given what we usually end up with when the police are being debated here and elsewhere, we are pushing for the police to be more operational in the urgent role of law enforcement as it is now. Possibly it would be a capacity enhancing relief for the police to have an independent rapporteur. What is extremely important is international cooperation. This is essential for combating these crimes. We particularly highlight this aspect of the Center Party's motion on this. Although the child perspective is the most important and the issue of these crimes against children is more urgent than anything else, I also think, in accordance with our alliance-wide motion, that it should be a national action plan for all human trafficking. I support all our reservations, but for the time to come, I only support reservation 11, which Anders Hansson has already called for, and reservation 10 to make international police cooperation more effective.
i-81f476106e4692b9-161	Mr President, I would like to This is an important action plan for the protection of children against trafficking in human beings but also sexual abuse. I would like to start by saying that I find it sad that the minister responsible is not present in this important debate. It may be an action plan with general orientations, but it is nevertheless an important signal of what announced political initiatives the Social Democrats and the Green Party intend to take. I have listened to the interventions of the Swedish Democrats. It sounds like they're the ones standing here with a battery of measures. However, with regard to all the more than 20 points, they have a single motion. The Liberals have nine motions, none of which have been voted in favour by the Swedish Democrats in the Committee on Justice in the examination of this report. Liberals take these issues very seriously. We have put forward proposals on sexual contact with children, among other things. It's about tightening up the penalties for sexual crimes against children. We have called for measures to increase international cooperation, not least within Europol at European level. We have also called for, urged and proposed to step up efforts to prevent the departure of unaccompanied minors. The County Administrative Board recently conducted a study that revealed that 1,800 unaccompanied minors have deviated and hidden. You don't know where they are. When attempts have been made to study why children deviate, no longer exist in the municipalities or in the institutions, it has become clear, among other things, that they are afraid of the state, of the authorities, and that they do not know what will happen in the future; they are afraid of being rejected and expelled. The third point is that they do not intend to seek asylum in Sweden and thus leave and hide. Unfortunately, some of these young people are engaged in serious organised crime and crime around our municipalities, but many are also exploited for human trafficking purposes and for sexual purposes. I very much regret that the government parties do not agree with us on this point in the report either. With regard to the proposal to revise the penal provisions for sexual contact with children, which are also mentioned in the report, Mr President, the Liberals have a request. We also have an old announcement from 2014/ 15. The government parties answer us in the committee's handling of the question that it is in preparation. A Ministry of Justice was handed over to the Ministry of Justice in early 2015, and we are now writing in 2017. My questions to the Social Democrats are: how long will this matter be prepared? Why do you want to reject our motion to tighten the penalty for sexual contact with children? There are several weaknesses in the action plan, despite the fact that we still support the approach. That is a lot of intentions and considerations. There is another important and up-to-date point about live streaming over the internet of sexual abuse. There, too, the Liberals have had claims in the past. The Alliance set up an investigation in 2014. Material came to the government a year ago. I recently saw a feature with the Minister of Justice where he said that there will be legislation in place in 2018 to criminalise the circulation of sex films on the internet. I think it's too late. Liberals think that we should do what we can together with the government to bring that legislation forward if possible. The problem is acute. Mr President, I would like to We in the Liberals are, of course, behind all our reservations, but we want in particular to raise reservation 4, which addresses our demand for increased penalties for contact with children for sexual purposes. Other colleagues have raised the point of capacity and ability. But here too, I think the S ocial democrats are guilty of the answer. In an action plan, you cannot announce, consider and promise resources, investigations and skills investments when the police and the prosecution – not least the police – are on their knees. That math and politics don't make sense.
i-81f476106e4692b9-171	Mr President, I would like to It can be understood that Roger Haddad boasts that the Liberals have so many reservations about the report, which aims to tighten the penalties for, above all, sexual offences against children. He shows that the Swedish democrats certainly have only one reservation to the report. It says very little about the content itself. In our reservation, we have raised almost all the reservations made in the report by Roger Haddad as a number of reservations. If Roger Haddad is interested in tightening the penalties for real, the situation is such that in the vote the Swedish Democrats are a larger party than the Liberals. Your reservation will fall, but then you will have the opportunity to vote for the policy that Roger Haddad says is so important with sharper penalties for sexual crimes against children. Then you can vote for the Swedish Democrats' reservation to get basically the same content. Is Roger Haddad prepared to do so in the vote of the House in order to have broader support for what you yourself have talked about is so important?
i-81f476106e4692b9-174	Mr President, I would like to Several of the major investigations mentioned in the report were set up by the then People's Party and the Alliance Government, not by the Swedish Democrats. In the case of increased penalties for trafficking in human beings or the exploitation of beggars, an investigation proposal has been submitted to the government. I've been looking at the motion. The focus is punishment for human trafficking. But what I raised in my main speech was more stringent penalties for contact with children for sexual purposes, more stringent penalties for the purchase of sexual acts by children and, not least, measures to prevent children from disappearing. These points have the Swedish Democrats chosen not to support, if you now think they are important questions. It's unfortunate.
i-81f476106e4692b9-176	Mr President, I would like to It seems that Roger Haddad has not read the reservation that the Swedish Democrats have written. There are all the categories of crime he mentions. Contact with children for sexual purposes, minor child pornography offences and all the other points are mentioned in our reservation. We propose that fines be removed from the penalty scale, and we propose increased penalties for these crimes. It seems that the reservations of the Liberals will fall into the Chamber. Then it is possible for the Liberals to vote for our reservation instead of gathering broader support for the issues that the Liberals say are so important in society. But I interpret it so that the Liberals want to continue to isolate the Swedish Democrats and the possible cooperation that may exist between the parties on those issues where we think equally in principle. That is how I interpret it, Mr President. It could be a little petty on Roger Haddad's part. In fact, Roger Haddad claims that the Swedish Democrats have too few reservations. The fact is that we have included in the report all the reservations put forward by the Liberals, although we have put them in a reservation. If Haddad wants to see broader support for the policy he says is so important, he may have voted for the Swedish Democrats' reservation in this House – but I think he is a little too good for that.
i-81f476106e4692b9-180	Mr President, I would like to I am tired of this game-theoretic debate which affects the Committee on Justice. This is not about how different parties vote fundamentally, but about an action plan to protect children against human trafficking, exploitation and sexual abuse. Here are 20 motions where SD has a point, but it sounded on Adam Marttinen in the speaker's chair like it is he who has tabled 25 points where the rest of us say no. That's not true! The Swedish Democrats have a reservation, and I have interpreted it so that Adam Marttinen is behind it. You'll have to do that. I have nine reservations, that is, nine motions, which the Liberals naturally support. And we particularly highlight penalties for contact with children for sexual purposes. On the question of the majority in the Committee on Justice, it has worked to this day. The Swedish democrats have sometimes jumped on alliance joint motions, and this has created so-called announcements. It now sounds like it would not have worked that way, but that is how it has worked in the Committee on Justice. I do not understand why some are trying to make that debate look new. I make the following interpretation: The government's action plan is weak. The Swedish Democrats do not have enough proposals. You cannot stand here and say that you want to tighten up the penalties, tackle trafficking in human beings, deal with the disappearances of young people and children, while the Liberals have concrete proposals that you do not support.
i-81f476106e4692b9-184	Mr President, I would like to Trafficking in human beings is the ruthless exploitation of a person in a vulnerable situation. Victims of human trafficking are often young people who have experienced poverty and difficult conditions in their home countries. Those who are brought to Sweden are often given false promises, and they find it difficult to get out of an escalating spiral of threats and violence because they lack language skills, perhaps world knowledge and a social network. The large group of unaccompanied children and young people who have disappeared in Sweden or deviated further raises the need for an action plan to protect children from human trafficking, exploitation and sexual abuse. The motto of serious organised crime is the greatest possible profit at the lowest possible risk. Trafficking in people for sexual purposes is in many ways associated with less risk than, for example, trafficking in drugs, which, after all, provides longer prison sentences. People can also be sold over and over again. That's how they think about serious organized crime. Therefore, the interaction between police and social authorities must work. It is important for success in the work against trafficking in human beings, as well as collaboration with civil actors such as hotels, restaurants and other traders and non-profit organisations. Better procedures must be developed for cooperation between police, social services, good men, the Migration Agency and others. At the same time, there are today good examples in police units specifically working against trafficking in human beings and similar crime, in the social services, in voluntary organisations and, not least, in the municipalities with reception centres. Before Christmas, Mr President, I went out and went with the prostitution group. I followed two shifts during two Friday nights before Christmas and saw how the work works in practice – in the small group very well – with police, social services and non-profit organisations in the fight to help people out of human trafficking. I have also been with the Border Police's unaccompanied group in Stockholm. It works against unaccompanied minors to see their needs, to help victims, to prosecute crimes and to ensure that those who have committed crimes are taken care of. There too, cooperation with the police and social services works well. The problem is, they're too few. A key factor in the work to strengthen children's rights and combat trafficking in human beings, exploitation and sexual abuse of children is that the Police Authority has the resources to prioritise that work. The human trafficking investigation also states the obvious: priority is needed for human trafficking and other related crime in all police regions. The fight against trafficking in human beings, exploitation and sexual abuse is a high priority for the Christian Democrats. We support the work of the government in the action plan that has been drawn up, but we see that there are a number of points where we should have gone further. The most important point is that of police resources. We have a reservation in the report that points out that the police must have the resources to be able to work focused throughout the country. It is reservation 14, to which I request approval. Swedish police are in crisis. Despite the strained situation, the government has not realised how serious the situation is. The major budgetary efforts will only come after the elections. We Christian Democrats are proposing a strong strengthening of the Swedish police. We propose 2 600 new police workers – 2 000 police officers across the country, 100 police officers in the national response concept to increase our counter-terrorism capabilities and 500 civilian employees in addition to those already employed to relieve and streamline police tasks so that more can work with core activities, in external service and with investigations. It can also strengthen the police's ability to prioritise work against trafficking in human beings, exploitation and sexual abuse of children. Mr President, I would like to For time winning, I do not support the reservation we have regarding the mandate of the Ombudsman for Children to increase knowledge of why unaccompanied minors disappear, but I am of course behind it. The assignment must be presented no later than 15 December 2017, but given the urgency of the issue, the work should be stepped up and clearly speeded up. The assignment includes obtaining information from the Finnish Immigration Service. This is important, but we think that the mission should include obtaining information from the police and social services, who are working practically on these issues. We also support the alliance-wide reservation 11 to have a national action plan against all trafficking in human beings, that is, even when adults are exposed. It is a little outside this report, but yesterday the Christian Democrats presented seven more sharp proposals to take seriously the fight against child sexual abuse and to tighten up legislation against child pornography offences. These are more stringent penalties, increased minimum penalties, reduced requirements for crimes to be counted as serious, more money for research and investigating chemical castration as a sanction. It's also about more cops. This is a priority issue. We Christian Democrats do that.
i-81f476106e4692b9-201	Mr President, I would like to Today, the Committee on Justice is debating the 2016 – 2018 Action Plan to protect children from trafficking in human beings, exploitation and sexual abuse. First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all reservations. Trafficking in human beings is a crime involving the ruthless and cynical exploitation of human beings. Trafficking in human beings is also a serious violation of the individual's right to his or her own body. The government has found that trafficking in human beings in all its forms is a very serious crime, which is also a serious obstacle to the victim's enjoyment of his or her human rights. The work against trafficking in human beings has a strong perspective on children's rights and gender equality and is therefore a high priority for the government. This particular Action Plan sets out several objectives and actions in these areas for the period 2016-2018. The objectives are that children should not become victims of human trafficking or be subjected to sexual abuse or exploitation either in Sweden or in connection with, for example, Thailand's holiday or a business trip. Further objectives are that all children who have been victims should be given the support and protection they need. Finally, we want to promote children's knowledge of their rights to protection against trafficking in human beings, exploitation and sexual abuse and give them the opportunity to counteract their vulnerability themselves. The measures to achieve these objectives also apply to those between 2016 and 2018. One measure is that the County Administrative Board of Stockholm continues its mission according to the regulation letter: to coordinate the dissemination of knowledge and methods between authorities and implement these in order to provide children with support and protection against human trafficking and exploitation. The government has established a post as ambassador for the work against trafficking in human beings. The intention is to create effective international cooperation to combat trafficking in human beings. In recent years, the government has also concluded bilateral agreements to combat trafficking in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children in connection with tourism and travel, in particular to countries such as Thailand, Vietnam and Cambodia, where there are strong indicators that this has occurred. The Stockholm County Administrative Board also has the task of carrying out an in-depth study on the groups of children deemed particularly vulnerable, such as unaccompanied asylum seekers, children who do not apply for asylum and children whose guardians are themselves exposed to human trafficking. Police reports should also be reviewed to try to identify why so few preliminary investigations into suspected human trafficking lead to prosecution. Through dialogue with municipalities, the Migration Agency, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, you will try to find out what can go wrong and propose measures. This must be reported by 1 February of this year. Another measure is that the Ombudsman for Children has been asked to ask the children who have returned after having deviated from the circumstances behind their disappearance and to listen to them – in the first place to gain more knowledge. The Government also commissions the National Board of Health and Welfare to produce an information booklet for the Social Services to investigate children's needs for support and protection in transnational cases where children have been victims of human trafficking or sexual abuse. Knowledge support for social services and health care should also be developed for discussions with children. To gain more knowledge of police methods, the Swedish Crime Prevention Council has been tasked with developing a compilation of methods and working methods to prevent repeated violence against adults and children in close relationships. Mr President, I would like to All these measures are politically important to bring about change. But it must not be forgotten that it is also very important to work preventively against human trafficking and sexualbrot t– d ett so that no one should have to undergo these traumatic experiences. If, however, people are exposed to this, it is the duty of society to do its utmost to provide the support needed to return to a meaningful life. The Government will therefore contribute to the financing of work to prevent sexual crimes against children that Anova, formerly the Center for Andrology and Sexual Medicine, conducts at Karolinska University Hospital. The intention is that those people who want to get the help they need to manage their sexuality and therefore do not abuse children. The General Children's House receives funds to develop a model for better support and treatment of children who have been victims of sexual abuse and physical violence. It also provides funds for the dissemination of information to children about their rights and where to turn. The Government has also developed a school development programme to strengthen students' ability to use the internet critically. It will reduce the risk of them becoming victims of harmful online contacts. The Government considers that there is a need to continue the development of the judiciary in order to prevent and combat sexual offences against children. Sexual offences against children are constantly taking place in new contexts, and not least the internet and social media have brought new opportunities for offenders to commit crimes. Children who fall victim to sexual offences are severely restricted to privacy and often suffer long-term suffering. The Government is currently reviewing a large number of provisions aimed at strengthening the criminal law protection of children in relation to sexual offences and therefore intends to mandate the Police Authority to propose measures to strengthen the ability to combat sexual offences against children. These include internet-related sexual offences against children, live streaming of abuse, exploitation of children when travelling abroad, cases where children sell sex, trafficking with children, sexual blackmail with demands for images and documents, and contact with children for sexual purposes. With regard to increased penalties for sexual contact with children, an action plan was called for. The timetable looks at the moment so that a bill will come early this autumn, and hopefully, if all goes well, this can enter into force in January 2018. The Government will continuously follow up the Action Plan until 2018 and take further action if necessary, which means that no doors are yet closed. In view of what I have said, I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the reservations to be rejected.
i-81f476106e4692b9-221	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to put to the record that we have called for the approval of reservation 4 in the report. Returning to Sanne Lennström, who has successfully reviewed the report and the action plan, there is, as I said, a lot of planning, intentions and considerations. Unlike the Social Democrats, we are dedicating hundreds of millions to the police, and why is that important? Well, when it comes to this type of crime – child pornography and sexual contact with children – the police authorities themselves have said that they cannot handle the amount of data they receive. I have seen news that it can take up to three years for child pornography offences to be prosecuted and convicted. Stricter legislation is therefore part of it. But let us go back to our proposal, where we invest in the police but not least in the National Forensic Centre, which we in the Liberals' budget reinforce by 20 million. We are doing this to shorten lead times in investigations into child pornography offences and sexual offences, but also to strengthen police capacity. Nevertheless, my question to the Social Democrats remains: How are you going to achieve all these targets for 2016– 2018? It's 2017 now. There are only about two years left of that period. How are you going to achieve these political goals with the staffing police today?
i-81f476106e4692b9-225	Mr President, I would like to Of course, resources are needed, as Roger Haddad mentions. Part of the investigation is also about looking at what resources are needed and what they should be used for, because you must of course, in addition to adding resources, know where they are needed. That is why, as I mentioned in my speech, various studies are being carried out on what measures and what methods are needed; a strategy is simply needed. I come from the Police Region of Mitt, which has a special mission regarding contact with children for sexual purposes and such crimes over the Internet, and I would like to mention that it takes a very special competence to work with this, so you have to see it in the long term. M an must ensure that you have IT forensics, competent prosecutors and police officers who are capable of dealing with these crimes. Unfortunately, there is no storeroom where these people can be picked up, but you have to work long-term with this. As I mentioned, several different proposals were made in the M sentencing investigation, the S exual criminal investigation and the Ministry's memos where this is reviewed. It is therefore absolutely something that the government will prioritise.
i-81f476106e4692b9-228	Mr President, I would like to This is the problem of the Social Democrats and the Green Party.It will be the message to those who are working on these issues and to the children and adults who are affected by these crimes. But we can't stand here and say it's coming. The mission to the police to identify and implement measures will be reported on 15 April 2018, but it is now that we see problems – again. This is not a new problem. 2008, 2010, 2013 and 2016 there were problems with few prosecutions and few who were finally convicted of child pornography offences. When it comes to sexual contact with children and, for example, live streaming – spreading sex films over the internet – you don't get prison today. We appointed this investigation already in 2014, and according to this bill list, it will come in September, with the hopefully entry into force in 2018. Can Sanne Lennström say anything about this? Will you extend a hand to the opposition and say that perhaps you can bring that legislation forward?
i-81f476106e4692b9-231	Mr President, I would like to As Roger Haddad knows, I do not own the timetable itself, so I cannot go into that. However, it is not the case that there is only one proposal in a study on the timetable for contact with children for sexual purposes. There are many different areas and issues regarding contact with children for sexual purposes and sexual offences in general, which, as I mentioned, are subject to many different investigations. The proposal coming in the autumn is therefore only one of the proposals. Then Roger Haddad also knows that many things need to be investigated; things need to be referred. There will be many proposals very quickly, for example on the issue of child pornography, which has been on the table recently. That question was quickly picked up by the Minister of Justice, and there will be a review of what can be done in that area. So there are many different areas and many different investigations, and proposals will come at different times. But this particular bill will come in the autumn.
i-81f476106e4692b9-234	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sanne Lennström, for your speech. Some questions came up that go a little into what Roger Haddad has said. After all, an action plan is often comprehensive: one sets the framework and sets out one's objectives, the measures one wants to take and its intentions. But the intentions and descriptions of what you want to do must never replace the direct, sharp proposals that must follow. That is why, in my speech, I tried to address the M widow trade investigation and the S exual criminal investigation, where there are good proposals. It is important that the sharp proposals also come. I am very much in favour of the action plan coming as a description of the problem, but we must not get caught up in it and describe the problem over and over again. In the end, there must be sharp proposals. So my question is actually the same as Roger Haddad's: when can we see the sharp proposals coming in this area? The next issue is the one we raised in the alliance party reservation. The action plan concerns children; we called for an action plan on trafficking in human beings in general, which also applies to adults. Now it's about children, and that's great, but we're missing some that also applies to adult people. The risk is to build two tracks: an organisation for trafficking in children, but no one for adults, for it will come later. Does Sanne Lennström see a problem with only raising children? Would it not be more appropriate to take a holistic approach to trafficking in human beings and include adults as well?
i-81f476106e4692b9-238	Mr President, I would like to Of course, not only can we have an action plan, but we must also take concrete action. I believe that 23 concrete measures are being proposed in the report by Mr Anders. The S Exual Crime Committee has also made a great many good, concrete proposals, on which the government has already expressed a favourable opinion. We also know that there are many proposals that will be able to pass through the committee, because there is broad support. As mentioned earlier, it is important that we have broad cross-party support on these issues; these are important issues and people who are victims of sexual crimes, human trafficking or both are going very badly. So there are many different proposals in this area, and the government itself has stated that priority is given to sexual crimes and trafficking in human beings. It has also been said to the police that they should prioritise this – it has been a priority for the police since 2015. So there are absolutely issues on the agenda, and concrete proposals will come. I can submit a list to the Alliance, if you want one, of the timetable for all the various proposals that will subsequently land in reservations. As to why the national plan is primarily focused on children, it is the case that this issue has been raised in committee in the past, but it has been rejected. Historically, I believe that one reason is that children can be particularly vulnerable in such situations. Children are not informed in the same way as adults about the risks that exist in society and so on and can very easily be exposed to this in a different way. One does not therefore exclude the other, and there have been investigations in the past – for example in 2010 – when the issue has been reviewed on a broader scale. In this particular case, however, children were more concerned because they are often in a particularly vulnerable position.
i-81f476106e4692b9-242	Mr President, I would like to That's right, isn't it? Our objection to the fact that it only affected children and not adults was that it would have been practical if the information campaigns could have addressed both children and adults in relation to these terrible crimes. But I'm glad there's a lot of suggestions coming up. We even get a list, for which I thank you. I hope that these proposals will come very quickly, because they are needed. We must not be content with just one action plan, which is in itself a good one, because the problem has been described. But it is precisely the solutions to the problem that we really need to have a greater discussion about. I think we can come to an agreement there too. I would also like to address the issue of the action plan. It is great that it is comprehensive and that there are sharp proposals. In the end, however, we find ourselves at what my colleague, Roger Haddad, referred to, namely who is going to do the work. Of course, it is our officers in the field who are going to do this. Then it wants to see the whole chain of justice in some way, and in particular those who are going to investigate it. I come from the South Police Region, which is currently bowing under the pressure of a wave of murder, a wave of rape, etc. I feel that there is some passivity both from the chief police officer and unfortunately from the Minister for the Interior in helping with this. There is simply a crisis in Malmö, where there are so many shootings. Then you come back to the need for more hands, i.e. more resources and more police. It must also be taken into account when presenting an action plan and when making sharp proposals, that is to say that it is not only possible to present the proposals. Someone should also do this work. Right now there is a shortage in the police; there are too few police officers. We have insisted that there be more police officers. I want to hear what Sanne Lennström says about this very thing.
i-81f476106e4692b9-245	Mr President, I would like to The issue of resources, as we mentioned earlier, is very important and of course crucial in many cases. Some have also been examined as to what resources are needed and where that money needs to go. It's in the pipe, so to speak. Of course, more hands may be needed. The government has made a major investment in police officers especially in vulnerable areas, including in the South Police Region, which Anders Hansson mentions. So we need more cops. However, I must return to the fact that, on the issue of trafficking in human beings, there is a need for specific competence. That also applies to sexual crimes. Even police officers have a special competence. It takes time to educate them. Today, the places at police college aren't filled. You really have to look at how to attract more people to become police officers. I think that we need to take a very big approach to this issue in order to ensure that we have sufficient resources to investigate these crimes.
i-81f476106e4692b9-249	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Government's action plan to protect children against trafficking in human beings, exploitation and sexual abuse. The Action Plan is a continuation of the previous one, which applied from 2014 to 2015. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report, which welcomes and supports the government's efforts to tackle these serious crimes. Mr President, I would like to As a race, I walked on a sunny street in my grandmother's neighborhood. I listened to the Summer program with Parul Sharma. She spoke about and described rooms filled with terrified children waiting for the next abuse, and she spoke about ruthless human traffickers who exploit large international arrangements to make money selling children to among other Swedish tourists. This is a cynical abuse of the child's human dignity and something that needs a broad attack from us. Action is needed locally, nationally and internationally. I am therefore pleased that the government is now continuing to take a broad approach and that these are high-priority issues. The statistics show that of the cases of trafficking in children for sexual purposes reported since 2002 in Sweden, all cases relate to abuse of girls. It also shows the important gender dimension that exists in these issues. I started with the international outlook, and I would like to remind you that the work in the action plan is also part of the work to achieve the UN's global sustainability goals in Agenda 2030. The objectives are to eliminate abuse, exploitation, trafficking in human beings and all forms of violence or torture against children and to eliminate all forms of violence against all women and girls in public and private spaces, including trafficking in human beings, sexual exploitation and other forms of exploitation. These issues also drive the government internationally, not least through the appointment of an ambassador for the work against trafficking in human beings. Already in the course of the Action Plan, the government had taken many measures to protect children from serious abuse. It is about the investigations that many have mentioned. These include, for example, the 2014 investigation on trafficking in human beings, which proposes, among other things, what several have called for, namely that the minimum penalty should be increased so that fines can no longer be considered for the purchase of sexual acts by children, but also that the prudential requirement for the abuser of a child should be increased in relation to the age of the child. In any case, it should no longer be possible to explain away that you thought the child was indeed older. I joined the Sexual Crime Committee, which has put forward several proposals to strengthen the position of children in the event of sexual abuse, including the main proposal for a law of consent, which is in fact a strengthening of the protection of children over 15 but not 18 years of age. Studies show that as much as 70 percent of those who are victims of rape have a freezing reaction to the abuse and do not fight, kick, and scream. These victims receive stronger criminal protection with a consent law where violence and threats no longer become props for the crime. Mr President, I would like to One group that is particularly exposed to the risk of becoming involved in human trafficking in Sweden are unaccompanied minors. It pains me tremendously to hear the reports that Ekot had this week about children who are placed in family homes without control from the municipality. We have talked here about the children who deviate from the Finnish Immigration Service's accommodations, but I am appalled when the municipalities do not even take responsibility for the children society has decided that they are obliged to take care of. It is incredibly serious and involves the risk of even more children deviating and, for example, becoming victims of criminal gangs and traffickers. Mr President, I would like to I realise that I am going to exceed my registered speaking time, because there is so much to talk about here. I will mention some further measures announced, including the coordination and collaboration work being carried out and the development and knowledge development measures that are about both preventing abuse and detecting abuse that is already under way. The government also announces educational efforts aimed at children to gain knowledge of their rights. I very much hope, Mr President, that Roger Haddad did not mean seriously that it is these efforts that should be deleted when he spoke in his speech that all the resources should instead be spent on the police. We agree that there are major challenges in the Swedish police and that the results are not satisfactory – this autumn I myself interpelled the Minister for the Interior about the investigation of human trafficking crimes – but we cannot believe that the problems are solved only by the fact that all the focus and resources are being put on this. Resources are also needed for a hard-pressed social service. There is a need for increased knowledge of, for example, the group of unaccompanied minors and why many have deviated and disappeared. Dialogues with foreign authorities are needed to tackle the type of abuse committed by Swedes abroad, and actors other than authorities need to be involved in this work. I hope that we have a broad consensus on this, as can be seen from the committee's reading – although there has been little doubt in today's debate as to whether all parties are behind these measures. Mr President, I would like to Parliament should support the measures and proposals in the Government's action plan. That is why I am once again in favour of the proposal in the report.
i-81f476106e4692b9-261	Mr President, I would like to It is not possible either to debate or to address the fundamental and major problems of children who are victims of human trafficking or sexual abuse without talking about the adult world – about how it is that some people are exploiting the most fragile thing we have. That is why we must start from the beginning, with the structural repression and the gender power regime in which men are systematically superior to women and children. That is where it begins: that some, depending on their sex, are more important and important than others. For 20 years, the Left Party has put the feminist issues first. We've got a lot of people with us. Therefore, I am particularly pleased that Sweden's first feminist government has indeed delivered in this action plan. Trafficking in human beings is a complex phenomenon whereby women and children are recruited and transported within one country or between several countries where they are sexually exploited or for criminal activities, begging and forced labour. This is capitalism in its most disgusting form, where people are commodities in a never-ending market. It is a fast market where far too little is at stake for people who consider themselves entitled to buy and sell another person. The law in these cases is tricky and unclear. There are too many men who go free when they go to other countries and buy children's bodies for the sake of their own sexual pleasure and power. A body is never a commodity, and in order to reduce the purchase of children's bodies we must prevent the purchase even of the adult body. Therefore, the demand for double criminality on the issue of sexual purchases must be removed. What is illegal in Sweden should also be illegal abroad, because everything is connected. One example here in Sweden is the current legislation on child marriage. Today, it is possible to recognize child marriage if there are special reasons. This isn't okay. There is no reason why society should accept that girls are married to adult men. For us in the Left Party, it is a matter of course that child marriages, forced marriages and proxy marriages should not occur. The Parliament had a chance three years ago to change the law, but only the Left Party voted for a change. Are you now ready for a change? I hope so. Let us pursue such a change of law! The men who use children over the Internet are many. Whether live broadcasts or purchased images, the legislation needs to be updated. It is rarely I am an advocate of stricter penalties, but in this case it is justified. The police must be able to investigate the crimes with higher priority. Sexual abuse takes place in children's everyday lives. Pictures published publicly to spread shame – revenge porn – are the ugliest version, where boys show their power over girls' bodies by spreading their sexual interaction to several people. " Hora" is still one of the worst things you can be called as a girl. Therefore, the law must be amended, the BBS Act updated and questions about online hate speech also addressed by law. In some way, however, we always come back to the structures – to the existence of a superorder and subordination. No law text can change that. There is no way to tackle international oppression through punishment. We can only do that by changing the ideals – by talking to our sons about consent at day-care level and that a hug that someone doesn't want is never ok, and by supporting girls to believe in themselves and affirm their sexuality. There are many people who do not really agree with me and who think that this is feminist nonsense, flum and perhaps even some sort of man hate. But you know what? If so, you are the problem. It is you who do not have the solution to a problem that affects us all – from the child from another country who is bought by a horny old man to the girl who is called a whore by her classmates because she gets a picture spread online. I do not compare these two events in any way, but I believe that they originate in the same structure. This cannot change without everyone taking responsibility. I think we need to do it together. We cannot change the world in Sweden's parliament, but we can make politics more feminist – and then we have come a long way. I support the proposal in the report.
i-81f476106e4692b9-272	Mr President, I would like to I listened to Linda Snecker's speech and still felt a bright hope spreading. We have talked to Linda Snecker about the penalties in many debates. Within the Moderates we are much in favour of punitive measures; we believe that whoever commits a disgusting crime should receive a punishment that is balanced for it. Linda Snecker has with a dot certainty almost without its like said that raising the penalty absolutely is not something we should have. That is why I was pleased when Linda Snecker said in this debate that stricter sanctions must be imposed. I can only agree with her on this. I am pleased that Linda Snecker sees that punitive measures have an effect, and since I see a trend break here I would like to ask: Is this an opening to further penalties even in other cases, or is it precisely these crimes that distinguish themselves? I am very much in favour of Linda Snecker wanting to see stricter sanctions for these crimes, but I would like her to develop her reasoning on what distinguishes them.
i-81f476106e4692b9-276	Mr President, I would like to I'm not going to make Anders Hansson too happy – it's still my role as a left-wing party to stop the incitement to longer and tougher penalties. I lean confidently towards research and empirical research, which says that the punishment itself has no impact on crime. Unfortunately, the punishment itself does not prevent people from committing crimes. If that had been the case, our task here in the Parliamentary Committee on Justice would be very simple. We had only had to tighten the penalties to reduce crime, and then we could have focused on completely different issues. Unfortunately, that is not the case. The punishment itself has no impact on crime. However, the punishment affects the police's priority internally when investigating the crime. We see that sexual and human trafficking crimes, which we are debating today, are not as high a priority in the police as the Left Party would like. We must give priority to rape offences, sexual offences, trafficking in human beings and crimes against children much higher. The penalty must be tightened, as the police's priority is determined by the length of the sentence and the penalty for the crime. This is extremely important. Otherwise we will never have the feminist society that we strive against, so that we can all live as free individuals.
i-81f476106e4692b9-280	Mr President, I would like to I thank Linda Snecker for her answer. We do not really agree whether the penalties have any effect on people's willingness to commit crimes. I believe that there must always be a risk assessment. For example, if there is a speed camera on the road, a little is avoided by pressing the accelerator. If there is a penalty for the person who commits a crime, it is less likely to commit this crime. Linda Snecker is right, of course, that the police must be able to work effectively – where we agree. The reason for raising the penalty is, according to Linda Snecker, that these crimes would then come up as a priority with the police. I agree, but what is Linda Snecker really after? It is possible to use secret coercive measures, which are often a prerequisite for, for example, reaching crime on the Internet. Here we come to a question that I find very interesting. Then how are the police supposed to work? Then you have to use data storage. I know that the Left Party has been very restrictive about the police being allowed to use data storage, and the same applies to secret coercive measures such as interception. This becomes a bit contradictory: it wants to tighten sanctions so that the police can work more easily and use more coercive measures, but at the same time it is against the police using coercive measures and the police being allowed to store traffic data to access paedophiles on the internet, for example. I'd like to hear how Linda Snecker discusses this, because it sounds a little contradictory to me.
i-81f476106e4692b9-285	Mr President, I would like to We know that the punishment itself and the priority given to investigating the crime by the police do not mean that the immediate use of coercive measures and other methods is started. It's not like that. As for many sexual crimes, you do not need to use secret coercive measures at all, but you need resources to interrogate people and conduct forensic investigations. It is usually not secret coercive measures that are the solution. In some cases this is the case – for example when it comes to trafficking in human beings or crimes via the Internet. There, some secret coercive measures may need to be used more, but this also applies to intelligence information. We in the Left Party are more restrictive than other parties, and we will continue to be. Personal integrity is incredibly important to preserve. We will continue to debate this – this is an issue that distinguishes the parties ideologically, and I always encourage ideological discussions. The Moderates have very good suggestions on these issues. As Anders Hansson said in his speech, there is no political dividing line here – we all want to put an end to these horrors. What I don't understand is why the Moderates – a party that focuses very much on the police and that just wants to debate the police – constantly make decisions that give the police more tasks, such as ID checks and border controls. This is especially true in Region Syd, from which Anders Hansson comes, which is one of Sweden's most labour-intensive regions. In Malmö, a lot of violent crime and abuse are taking place at the moment. Why do you give the police more information when, for example, one could focus on stopping human trafficking? This confuses me.
i-81f476106e4692b9-291	Mr President, I would like to I do not want to start a new turn in the debate in any way, but I am not going to leave the errors that have been made in the debate unresponsive. This applies, of course, to the Liberals, who tried to reduce our involvement in this report by claiming that we have only one reservation. But if Roger Haddad had looked a little closer in the report, he would have seen that we have two reservations. For this reason, I feel obliged to support the second reservation too, so that there are no exceptions to the fact that we have two reservations in this report. It is reservation 7, which also concerns trafficking in human beings. The difference between Roger Haddad's reservations– he has quite a lot – and the reservation we have left, reservation 5, is that Roger Haddad has left individual reservations regarding the purchase of sexual acts of children and contact with children for sexual purposes. The two penalty increases that he proposes in separate reservations we have collected in one and the same reservation. In addition, we have included sexual posing, sexual harassment of children and minor child pornography offences in this penalty reservation on the part of the Swedish Democrats. We could do just like Roger Haddad and leave individual reservations for each individual penalty increase in each category of crime. Then we would come up with the same number of reservations Roger Haddad has made. However, we do not count our involvement in this report in the number of reservations, but we count it in practical policy. There we can say that we are hitting Roger Haddad on the fingers, because we are proposing penalties for a larger number of categories in this report. In the debate here, it has been said that punishment does not counteract crime. In fact, however, we know that those in prison for more than six months have a lower rate of relapse than those who have been in prison for less than six months. Of course, the prison service will have a better opportunity to offer a programme for those in prison. As far as this report is concerned, there is currently a fine on the scale of penalties, and then there is very little opportunity for the prison service to provide the sentenced with care.
i-81f476106e4692b9-296	Mr President, I would like to Today we are going to debate a problem that we have debated many times, namely those people who are systematically involved in destroying our sporting arrangements and, in various ways, hurt many. Over the years, we have taken a variety of measures – above all this concerns the previous government. We made sure that access bans could be imposed on people who have not behaved. We introduced the possibility of keeping a register so that in practical action they can also be stopped from entering the arenas. We introduced the possibility of transporting people who are guilty of direct disorder outside the arenas, so that they will not be able to cause misery in there. We introduced a ban on pyrotechnics – the so-called Bengals – and a ban on rushing planes. We can note that this is a category of people who want to engage in what they are unfortunately doing, that is to say that their first attempt is not to follow but to circumvent rules. It is also the background to today's debate and the government's proposal to reintroduce a masking ban. As we have banned bengals and rushes, of course, every opportunity has been sought to circumvent legislation, and today we are doing so by masking ourselves more and more. Since before, we have a masking act in case of disorder of order, but it has applied outside the arenas and has not been applicable. It is therefore reasonable and necessary that this proposal has been tabled. We welcome it, if you are going to speak European languages, and think it is a good thing. We have to stay alert all the time. We can see that there are people who do not want to follow rules, who circumvent them, and we should not give up on this. However, we are partly a little critical, because we see a concern that we are once again creating opportunities for these specialists to circumvent legislation to more easily circumvent this legislation too. There are a number of very reasonable exceptions to the rule of a masking ban in the bill. Of course, it is perfectly reasonable for athletes to wear a helmet if they play ice hockey and for the driver on the track to wear a helmet. It is also very reasonable that those who work in the arena, not least police officers, can cover themselves to be able to do their job. It is also very reasonable that there is a point called Other circumstances. This means that the courts have the opportunity to make assessments in specific cases as always in legislation, cases that cannot be foreseen, very specific events. We acknowledge this, but we are a little concerned about two exceptions which are very wide-ranging and which are in danger of being exploited by those who are specialists in circumventing the rules. The two exceptions are as follows. An exception for weather is proposed. Weather is a rather broad concept. It often differs from one person to another what you perceive as good or bad weather. Even within our committee, opinions about what is good weather and what is cold differ. We have shows that think it is much colder than I think as a northern resident. They have a much greater need to get dressed properly and sometimes even cover their face. It is therefore a rather broad concept that is difficult to understand. The court will try to find out what is good or bad weather. We believe that the point of other circumstances is sufficient. Leaving an opening for those who deliberately want to interfere with a sporting arrangement to refer to the weather, which is a far too wide-ranging exception, risks undermining the whole of the legislation. The second exception that we are less pleased about is the one that refers to health. It is also vast. There, too, other circumstances could be sufficient as an exception. It is not unthinkable that some people can well imagine, as has also been pointed out in some referrals, illegally lighting a Bengal. But since there is a lot of smoke coming from it you cover the face, as you want to do because you break the law and do not want to be seen, and can thus refer to health reasons. We do not know how a court would decide in such a case. However, we believe that this is probably so extensive and that the exception of other circumstances is sufficient in that case. So we see a risk that the legislation that we agree on is needed, with some exception, may again have to be tried by new governments and the new parliament, because there will be too much opportunity to circumvent it. In the reservations and also in the referrals, there is another exception, and this applies for religious reasons. It is quite reasonable that this exception should be included. We have a constitutional right in the rule of freedom of religion in Chapter 2. Section 1, the form of government. We also have protection under Article 9 of the European Convention. To restrict such a matter does not seem appropriate to us at this time. We have discussed this in our exercise. Of course, there are different interpretations of religious practice, which are actually protected by the Constitution. There should, of course, always be limits so that no one but the de facto believer can use this reason to circumvent legislation. Of course, somewhere there are limits to what constitutes religious practice. It is a discussion that I think we need to take but in a broader perspective. As far as sports arrangements are concerned, I must say that I hardly believe that this particular derogation will lead to any major problems of order in our stadiums. It is rather that I would like to see many more young Muslim girls sitting in the stands at the ice hockey games and football games. They're far too few today. On the other hand, I think it is important, not least with regard to court halls and other types of public space, that we have a discussion about safeguarding religious freedom, but also that we are trying to see where the limit is for what we can call religious practice. It is important that we distinguish this from other customs. With this, Mr President, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 2. I have a wish that we can see to it that we overcome the problem of hooligans. My call to you other Members is: do not give the hooligans the chance to circumvent the ban on them all too easily!
i-81f476106e4692b9-314	Mr President, I would like to Initially, I can take the opportunity to give the government some credit for actually working and delivering proposals between shipyards, often with the aim of tightening up to different laws which is positive in the light of how society looks and develops. So to speak, it is not at the very pace of producing new proposals that we believe there are shortcomings, but, as we from the Swedish Democrats often point out, the shortcomings are that the proposals, which may have a good intention, are all too often combined with exceptions that make the proposals toothless or miss the goal. Unfortunately, this report is no exception. That is why the Swedish Democrats have written a reservation, which I can also say we support. In sports events, so-called hooligans are all too often a problem. These people do not primarily show up to take part in an experience but are often in place for a well-planned purpose, to make mess and fights in different ways. One problem that has been identified is that these hooligans often mask themselves in order to avoid identification when committing various offences. The proposal here today takes up precisely that problem and criminalises masking in various sporting events, and that is a good thing. There is a symbolic value in the criminalisation itself, which can make more people aware of the problem and perhaps refrain from masking themselves. It also opens up an opportunity to intervene and to have consequences for these people who are masking themselves with dubious intent. The problem, which I addressed at the outset, is that this proposal is accompanied by a number of exceptions to what is intended to be criminalised. The exceptions are that it should not be criminalized to cover the face for reasons such as weather conditions, health reasons or religious reasons. Some alliance parties, namely the Moderates and the Center Party, have announced in a reservation that they see an application problem if it is forbidden to mask themselves but at the same time not prohibited to cover the face in bad weather, for example. In fact, I have sympathy for that reasoning. It opens the door to the interpretation of legislation. However, we have not chosen to reserve ourselves against the exception in terms of weather conditions. As regards health reasons, the Moderates and Centers have reserved for the same reasons as for weather conditions. We have also chosen not to reserve ourselves for this exception. The reason is that we see that weather conditions and health reasons are two reasons that are more concrete and verifiable than the exception for religious reasons. You might argue that you have to cover your face with a scarf when it's cold out in June, but if it's 20 degrees outside, the accepted view is that it's not very cold. Health reasons must be able to demonstrate concretely in order to give relevance, for example if you have visible diseases or obvious facial injuries that you have reason to cover. But how can the forces of law determine on concrete grounds whether a person wants to mask himself for religious reasons? A religious affiliation is not something that the forces of law can or should deny, and so it becomes impossible to include such an exception if you do not want to make the legislation completely toothless. Religious affiliation is subjective, unlike the other two reasons, where circumstances can be determined on a more objective basis. But for some reason, the same alliance parties, i.e. the Moderates and the Center Party, who have considered the law to be too toothless with the exception of weather and health reasons, have not chosen to reserve for the exception of religious reasons – which also the Police Authority wants to remove. I do not believe that this is due to an accident at work, but I believe that their position is rooted in the classic fear of not encountering religious minorities and the fear of the so-called racist stamp. It is the same fear that basically crippled the political development of all parties until the ice broke a few years ago. However, I am convinced that all visitors at various events understand that there must be certain rules of conduct for all visitors and participants in order for everyone to have the best experience possible. For this reason, I believe that the fear of criticism of removing the exception for religious masking is unjustified. I would like to make it clear that we are open to also removing the exceptions regarding weather and health reasons. However, it was a little difficult for us to determine what consequences such removal could have in terms of health reasons. But we have been told by the Moderates that they have given some thought to the reasoning, which opens the way for us to consider removing even these exceptions in the future. Mr President, I would like to In this debate and in this turn, however, I choose only to support our reservation, No 3.
i-81f476106e4692b9-330	Mr President, I would like to I also want to go to the football game at Östgötaporten with my family and watch IFK win all-Swedish gold again. That's what I want to do without Bengals, masks and fights. I don't want to see grown men whose only purpose is to fight with other grown men. I want to hang out with other families with children and football fans. Masking should not be criminalized, because criminalization has no real effect except the symbolic value. In reality, it will lead to more trouble and more confrontation between police and supporters. That is why I propose that the proposal be rejected and that reservation 1 be approved. Violence in connection with sport and sports events is not just a sporting problem. It is much bigger than that; it is part of a social problem. Therefore, action needs to be taken not only in the sport sector but also in society as a whole. It is therefore important that we prioritise the work of problematising and trying to change the prevailing masculinity ideal, including in sport. The Left Party is strongly critical of people choosing to mask themselves when they attend sporting events, but we do not believe that a masking ban is the right way to go or is a solution to the problems of order and safety that sometimes occur in large stadiums. What is needed instead is a new way of working. Several sports associations and local clubs are constantly working to create a positive supporter culture and reduce violence and disorder, including through extensive security work. Clubs work together with the police to create common strategies. In order to increase security and satisfaction for the audience at the matches, the clubs engage, among other things, crowd hosts and security guards. The clubs also have an ongoing dialogue with different support groups. As far as football is concerned, the clubs have engaged so-called supporters liaison officers, SLOs, to improve dialogue between supporters and police. A SLO is often a person who has high status within the support group and who many listen to. I could mention how many projects are currently underway to create a good and pleasant supporter culture. If we really want to change the football supporter culture, there are completely different things than criminalisation we are going to work on, and then we have to listen to the conclusions of the research. According to the research project Enables' report Public Handling in Swedish Football, there are several measures that the police must improve. The police work today according to a special police tactic, the SPT, to create a nationally coordinated strategy for the management of large crowds in Sweden. The SPT is based on four conflict-reducing principles: knowledge, communication, enabling and differentiation. To sum up, this particular police tactic is designed to achieve flexible situational adjustments through smaller and mobile police teams. The police are specially trained and well prepared to work in extremely difficult and stressful situations, such as riots and riots. Today the police work a lot with dialogue with supporters and SLOs and the police. Enables's research notes that the implementation of the specific police tactics concept has been successful in all metropolitan regions of Sweden. However, the basic role of dialogue tactics at operational level, i.e. the communication link between supporters and police, has not always worked. Within the SPT, police work with various tasks. Some are dialogue officers, some are other event police officers. In Stockholm, research shows that the event police are a significant contributor to the achievement of the police's strategic objectives. However, this function does not exist in other metropolitan regions, although those using the SPT need it. I will not go into too many details about how the police's working method works, but research notes that the police need to be better educated in specific police tactics, that the SLOs need to be used more, that the police need to be better at risk assessment based on the intelligence information for the matches, that the conflict-reducing principles need to be increased and that the method needs to be faithful even when it does. The SPT shows that the police need to have different tasks during these arrangements. One police officer cannot intervene, engage in dialogue and prevent crime. The police who are to create a dialogue with a support group cannot simultaneously intervene and prevent crime. In order to understand why people in groups resort to aggressive behaviours, one must have knowledge of group ecology, about the group's culture and history and about the importance of the geographical location. Unfortunately, this is where the police sometimes fall. I would like to conclude with a greeting from the Swedish Bar Association and with the Swedish Football Supporter Union's referrals, namely that It is our conviction that laws are best passed on the basis of good thinking and empirical thinking, rather than on the basis of sought signal value and hope. We're all here because we want to end the violence. But then we also have to listen to the research and see what can be improved in the police before we start criminalizing different garments.
i-81f476106e4692b9-346	Mr President, I would like to In all work against criminal behaviour and crime, it is important to work crime prevention, but sometimes you also have to work crime investigation. Otherwise, it doesn't make sense. The problem is that there are people who, no matter how much crime prevention they work, have decided that they will not follow the rules. For them, the best possible world would be that there were no rules at all, for then they would run no risk but could harm others without being punished. These are very special groups, Mr President, not least the tail that is called firms and that is in the background. They're engaged in regular fights. We can discuss group sykology as much as possible, and that is quite interesting in this case. They make arrangements to meet outside the arena, put on the mouthguard, and then they fight until all but one lie down. We can have as many national coordinators as possible to try to discuss this with them, but I have to say that when it comes to reaching that group, I do not think it will be a very successful strategy. I'm sorry, but I think that's the reality. Sometimes it's hard to keep two thoughts in your head at the same time, but I think it's important. The work that has been done to the clubs to work crime prevention is extremely important, but that does not mean that we can be without rules. We should also remember that the rules are, in the first instance, often a wish of the sports movement and clubs. Their criticism is not that the police are not doing their job, but that it often means that the police could ensure that there is more access bans.
i-81f476106e4692b9-351	Mr President, I would like to I did not quite understand any question from Krister Hammarbergh, but I will start at the end of my speech, namely with the referrals from the Football Supporter Union. They say that a ban on masking will have no impact on the violence in the stands. Krister Hammarbergh should remember that masking in the arenas is prohibited today. We have also criminalised pyrotechnics, which are also banned, but the police note that when, for example, there are Bengal ignitions inside the arenas, they do not intervene because the intervention has such an impact on the confrontation in the gallery that it is usually better – in order to reduce the violence – not to intervene. The Left Party wants a national coordinator because we believe that crime prevention is the most important thing. There is an incredible amount of good work going on to reduce violence. In particular, I would like to stress that the tasks of different police officers should not be mixed. Dialogue is the solution to the problem. I look as seriously as Krister Hammarbergh at the hooligans and the firms, which have no purpose. They don't want to see sports or do anything related to sports. They just want to fight. It is still through dialogue that we are reducing this. Regardless of what happens in the sports movement, dialogue is what is important, and the police have worked out several well-functioning systems through the special police tactics. I will give my material to Krister Hammarbergh, because I know that he, too, wants research and empirical work to govern when we make parliamentary decisions. The research shows that the police must be more faithful to their method, because it works.
i-81f476106e4692b9-356	Mr President, I would like to This is not a Question Time but a reply. I want to return to the theme that it might be good to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. I think we need to continue on that line. There was a lot of reference to research in the previous speech. We're following the research. I thank you for the offer, but we already have that product. We also follow everything else. Just as important as interpreting the research is to look at what is actually written and not draw their own conclusions from the research. There is nothing in the report that legislation in itself would be wrong, but there is a lot of looking at police tactics. There are different points of view on this. As important as taking part in all the research is to take part of all the referrals and not just select the ones you have wanted. If Linda Snecker looks at what the sports movement at large has said, she will find that the sports associations have a completely different point of view from the one she herself represents. What makes me a little concerned and that made me go up here is that the whole speech and the line shift breathes that this problem is the police's fault and that somehow it is the police that have to change their actions in order for us to stop the hooligans. It is very possible, Mr President, that in certain situations the police will have to hone their tactics. But let us not forget that those who cause problems are basically those who want to fight and fight, those who turn on Bengals and those who actually risk the lives of children nearby. It's not the police that's the problem, Linda Snecker.
i-81f476106e4692b9-362	Mr President, I would like to I still didn't get a question. No, it's not the police that's the problem. The problem is the police's willingness to follow a working method based on empirical evidence. Just as Krister Hammarbergh does not understand that it is important to distinguish between the different roles of the police in order to reduce fighting, the police sometimes have the same view, that if we have a dialogue police that will increase dialogue with different support groups, which in fact reduces violence, it is important that this police officer does not work with other tasks at the same time. That's not how man works, if we're going to return to group physology and why people in large groups can have very violent behaviors. Dialogue is the solution. I am very curious about the improvements in particular police tactics that the Moderates want to see, because it seems that Krister Hammarbergh accuses me of having chosen some referrals' interpretation of the bill. The consultation bodies I have listened to are the Parliamentary Ombudsmen, the Swedish Bar Association and the Swedish Football Support Union. Krister Hammarbergh seems to go by the fact that they are important referrals. I want to know what the Moderates really want to see, which is actually research-based. I don't think Krister Hammarbergh has seriously read the research that exists, but he will get my material. We cannot base politics on feelings and what feels right, but we must base it on what research actually says and what has a real effect. I'm afraid it doesn't have the ban on masking. Nor did the ban on pyrotechnics. This is both what the police say and what the research says. I base my policy on this. Krister Hammarbergh does something else.
i-JB87S4EiEeizvCHiuHnwtR	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 4 to the report by reference to the Liberals' explanatory statement. The case concerns a ban on the masking of sporting events. As we have heard earlier in the debate, Sweden still has major problems with violence related to football matches and some other sports. It's against those who destroy the matches that we're going to take a strong shot. The measures should hit and counteract violent supporter culture. Through the legislative work of the alliance government and the Liberals, the issues have been tightened up in several steps. We have previously introduced a ban on the introduction and use of pyrotechnic products without authorisation. The Act on the Prohibition of Access to Sports Arrangements has been amended so that it is possible, in the case of criminal liability, to prohibit persons from accessing sporting arrangements for up to three years. We have carried out the mission to the Police Authority and given it the power to keep a national register of persons with access bans. We have also contributed to changes in camera surveillance legislation to facilitate monitoring and, not least, identification of troublemakers and criminals in the arenas. All these implemented proposals have been implemented when we were in government. The issue of a masking ban has been under investigation for many years. The first proposal was made in 2013-2014. It has been looked at in such a way that it is consistent and compatible with constitutional provisions, which we think is important and legally secure. It is good that clarifications have been made in the proposal that has now come to the Swedish Parliament. The reason why we in the Liberals have a reservation is that we support the Government's proposal for a proposal but that in our motions and our motions we have pointed out that there are shortcomings in the proposal. We believe that the government does not highlight the situations in which an infringement of the masking ban should be deemed to be so serious that prison can be sanctioned rather than merely fined. We have nothing against the six-month penalty scale as proposed. We agree with that. But there are differences in whether you use a single play in the public gallery or if you rig up and light a larger number of Bengalian fires, as has been mentioned here, in the middle of the audience sea with obvious danger and risk to those standing by to watch a fair fight. We do not consider those parts to be covered. It would be bad and toothless with this kind of wording if we risk the prison section of the penalty scale with this proposal. With those words, I thank you for me.
i-81f476106e4692b9-375	Mr President, listen to me. First of all, I call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report so that it is not forgotten. Now we stand here in the Swedish Parliament and discuss a masking ban. I might think it's very unnecessary. I do not mean that we are presenting the proposal, because it is necessary. But it is that we need to stand and discuss that some grown men cannot refrain from taking on different types of hoods and other things to go to football and live out their supportership. They do it at the expense of other people. That is the very essence of why it is both a social problem and a football and sports problem. They live out something that they think is so important, and that we will return to a little later. The victims are children and families with children who cannot go to football. The first time I realized the extent of the problem was when Elfsborg and AIK played at home in Borås and 500 masked AIKs came, which went all the way from the centre of Borås to Borås Arena completely masked. There were 500 people. It's not just a known threat. It's a real threat. The police couldn't do anything. That is why we must act, although my speech will primarily be about problematising and nuances. Now it was AIKs. The following year, also in March, it was Elfsborg supporters who lit Bengals. It was described in newspapers how families with children had to take their children in their hands and run into the alleys and hide, and there were several who were injured by smoke. This is unacceptable behaviour that we can never relativise. Several of the speakers here describe that the reasons for this are to disturb order, or that the purpose is to cause trouble. But we need to understand the mechanisms if we as legislators are to make the right decision. This applies not only to this dossier, but to preventive work or when we need to nuance or adjust legislation that already exists. Is this about Bengals, firecrackers or fights on match-ups? No, Linda Snecker has an important point. It's about men in groups. There are unbelievably few female football hooligans in this country who behave as they do. It's about people who don't accept regulations. This is partly because they think the rules are ridiculous and bad, and partly because they do not respect the institutions, groups and decision-making bodies that have taken the decisions. It is therefore also a question of power. To the outside, it could be Bengals. But in the era of simplification and demonisation we are living in, we must also understand that this is about the pursuit of status. It is not about the status of the 95% of the visitors to the arena who see the misery. Maybe it's not even about respect in the heel. It is about the respect of a very small group of risk supporters who get status using different types of aggressive behaviour or similar. These are the same usual criminogenic factors that we see in other contexts. We see that the status and respect are much of the driving force behind the problems we see in the suburbs with shootings and other things, although there may be drug trafficking and such things in the background. We see the same phenomenon among the bullies in the schoolyard. It's about getting status and respect at someone else's expense. In this case, the middle finger of the fans may be directed against the vip-logs, the boardrooms of the clubs or the Swedish Football Association or the Swedish Elite Football Association. It's about this power struggle. Then we have this bill. The draft law has three objectives. The first is the normative effect. I do not think we should have too much hope that it will land on the right side. If you visit fan forums you can see countless examples of quite creative ingenuity when it comes to how to circumvent the law. Instead, they should take large flags, hide under them to light the Bengals and then remove the flag, and then you have the same situation and without the possibility to identify. They're gonna wear a hoodie and sunglasses. Are the law enforcement agencies supposed to be messing with those people? That's where we're going to land. The normative effect is one thing, and we should not exaggerate it. They don't give a shit about us, to be clear. The second is the efficiency aspect of law enforcement. It is the police who want the ban in order to have an opportunity to more easily prosecute the other crimes that take place in connection with the actual masking and that we will now criminalise, that is to say, the very ignition of Bengals. It means a much stronger and more effective tool for the police to solve the task of prosecuting these people. It is important, among other things, that they do not enter the arenas by means of the access ban laws we have. The third aspect that could be taken up on this is respect for sport itself and the signal value of taking seriously the calls of the sports movement to deal with this type of problem. We have to do that. We have seen how desperate in other leagues, not least the English, we have had to resort to completely different methods to remove this kind of hooliganism from the arenas and in connection with the arenas. We do not want that development. This means that ticket prices skyrocket and that ordinary people cannot visit the matches without completely ruining themselves. This means that we must dry up all activities relating to alcohol in the arenas and in the arenas in a very repressive manner. This means that the girls who before watching football can not take a few beers and eat a pizza together. It is part of the social practice of the sport match. We don't want to go there either. But it poses even greater threats, and the Supporter Union and the supporters themselves know that we are removing the standing audience and the opportunities for a positive heel culture. That is what we must protect. These people should not be allowed to spoil the possibility of maintaining a vibrant and fantastic heel culture. Swedish heel culture is in absolute European class and world class. The tifon we see in Swedish matches is not at all in parity with the class of the 22 overpaid footballers on the pitch. We are a third or fourth class league, but we have a fantastic supporter culture at the absolute European summit. We must protect that, and then we must also face up to these forces. Among other things, we are doing this with the legislation we are talking about here. There are a lot of reservations in the report about issues such as: should we allow religious clothing? Is it supposed to be weather conditions? I would like to say that I think the report is well balanced. This has been valued and then left to law enforcement bodies to ensure that this will be a good thing. If it does not turn out well, and if it turns out that there are a lot of people in the arena who say that they have suddenly become radical Muslims, then we will have to take a stand on it. But it's not something that has anything to do with reality in 2017. We need to adapt it. We must, of course, adapt it to weather conditions. If you look at bandy, and if there are no major hooligan problems with bandy, it is clear that you should be able to make sure that you do not freeze your nose. If you look at ski competitions and stand out in the middle of the forest you may be seen as a masquerade, but there is no major hooligan problem in the ski fans' circles. That is the classic thing: common sense. The proposal is characterised in many ways by common sense, and I think it will be a good thing.
i-81f476106e4692b9-393	Mr President, I would like to Sport should be accessible to everyone: those who want to practice it and those who want to watch and cheer on their team or athletes. Today we are debating the government's proposal for a ban on the masking of sporting events. It aims, above all, to make it easier for the police to investigate the crimes committed in our arenas and which lead many people to shy away from bringing their children to the football game or to go there themselves. Several speakers before me have explained the challenges we face and why a masking ban is needed. In particular, I would like to respond to some of the objections raised by the opposition regarding, in my view, the balanced exceptions contained in the Government's proposal. Just now there was talk of the proposal that weather conditions should be able to justify exceptions to the masking ban. This is perfectly reasonable for people who watch winter sports, for example, to be able to pull the scarf up over their noses when it blows cold. It is also perfectly reasonable for people suffering from diseases of various kinds to be able to use breathing masks or have bandages over facial ulcers when they go and watch football. Otherwise, we will not achieve the objective of making sport accessible to everyone. This is the fundamental ambition of the whole proposal, and then we cannot exclude those who, for reasons of disease, need to cover parts of their faces. The Moderates claim that the slush funnel, other circumstances, could cover all of this. But, Mr President, in my opinion, the type of exemption wordings such as that of other circumstances are to be used relatively limited and to things that could not be foreseen when the law was passed. It is quite easy to predict that weather conditions, as well as health reasons, can often be circumstances that need to be invoked. We have also discussed the question of whether religious reasons are a reasonable exception. There are even stronger arguments here, namely constitutionally protected freedom of religion and the European Convention on Human Rights. If sport is to be accessible to all, then even those who cover their face for religious reasons must be able to participate. The fact is that when I have asked myself and tried to find some case where this has caused problems in today's legislation on masking bans, where there are also exceptions for religious reasons, I do not find a single case where there have been problems with someone who has dressed up in burka to be able to fight at demonstrations. So I do not find a single case, and that is why this particular debate feels like something artificial. Perhaps the purpose is different from a proper regulation that allows the police to best combat disorder in the gallery. Mr President, I would like to I object to the Liberals' view that we, as legislators, should go in and specify all the circumstances that should lead to one or the other punishment within the framework of the scale of penalties that we decide in Parliament. It is normally something that we leave to the courts, and it is normally something that the courts are also doing meritoriously and where more serious infringements are more severely punished. With this, Mr President, I would like to endorse the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on behalf of the Government.
