i-096ea5be9b9adc1b-0	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked me in what way I intend to evaluate the law on sea-filling so that we can know whether the law has had any effect and how much resources have been required by the police and the judiciary to enforce the law. It is, of course, very important that the resources of the judiciary are used effectively and that reforms carried out are followed up if necessary. It is also the case that alcohol and traffic do not belong together, either on the road or on the lake. Ingestion of alcohol in traffic involves putting yourself and others at serious risk, both on the road and at sea. During the time the legislation has been in force, the number of suspected drunk driving offences has decreased annually in relation to the number of checks carried out. Both the Police Authority and the Coast Guard have noted a change of attitude towards alcohol in connection with boating and that most seem to comply with the new legislation. The picture is therefore that, in combination with the controls carried out, the legislation has a preventive effect on sea fillers, which was also one of the reasons for the 2010 amendment. The trend in the proportion of persons suspected of drunk driving has been clearly downwards.
i-096ea5be9b9adc1b-4	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The change in legislation came about to reduce accidents at sea, and of course no one wants people to drive around drunk on the lake and be a danger to others and themselves. The question is whether the objective has been achieved and whether the costs of monitoring compliance are reasonable in relation to the effects. In its response, the Government equates driving with driving a boat and that no one should be affected regardless of the type of traffic. Is it reasonable to put these two modes of transport on an equal footing? I think it's doubtful. Both speed and space differ significantly. Most who die on the lake fall overboard from a small boat and are without a life jacket. If the aim of a new legislation is to prevent people from dying on the lake, a mandatory life jacket use law should have a greater effect. The comparison is unreasonable even from other perspectives. There are no age limits or requirements for driving licences and training to drive a boat in the same way as it does for example to drive a car. Madam President, I would like Accident statistics show that the number of accidents by boat has decreased in the last 20 years, despite more boats. This is, of course, pleasing, and it is a trend that began long before the strengthened legislation came into being. Hugo Tiberg, professor of maritime law, has reviewed all the judgments following deaths and serious accidents that occurred in 1994–2011 in which alcohol has been involved. Of 400 judgments, the alcohol content in only a few cases has been less than 1 per mille. The statistics do not suggest that a reduction in per mille levels was the most important measure for safer boating. What has a greater impact on accident statistics is a lack of seamanship, knowledge of night driving, training in navigation and boat handling, and, as I mentioned earlier, the use of life jacket. The legitimacy of tightening up with reference to accident statistics is limping. I also think that, in his reply, the Government leans almost against anecdotal evidence when he says that the Police Authority and the Coast Guard have noted a change of attitude. I think a proper evaluation would be better. Madam President, I would like We are alerted almost daily to the lack of resources in both the police and the judiciary. Ensuring that our common resources are used as efficiently as possible is important. Controlling sobriety on the lake takes considerably longer than when the police stop a car. I've been through both myself. An evaluation of the tightening up of legislation should also look at the benefits of stronger legislation in relation to the costs of enforcement. I do not understand that the Government sees any need to make a proper evaluation, and I therefore ask: Why?
i-096ea5be9b9adc1b-12	Madam President, I would like I would like to remind you that it was the Alliance Government and my predecessor Beatrice Ask who carried this out. The Moderates sat in this Chamber and voted in favour of the proposal. I thought there were good reasons for doing this in order to reduce accidents and deaths. It is not just about yourself, the one in front of the boat, but also about the passengers you might have on the boat. It is also their life and health that they are responsible for. I think most people solve the situation in the same way as they do on land, i.e. if you are at a party somewhere you either agree on who will drive home or you sleep over. This is the usual. As I understand it, Maria Stockhaus does not want to tear up the law, at least that is not what she demands in her interpellation. But I would like to ask her about it, because on her argumentation in this House, it sounds like she wants to tear it up. Does she want to, or doesn't she want to? I'd like to know. As I understood, the interpellation was about an evaluation to see what has happened in these years. It was a demand that we Social Democrats also made when the law was discussed here in Parliament in 2010. I said then that after a couple of years you should follow up on what had happened. I can see Maria Stockhaus about that. We can look at the effects and police resources. In the run-up to this interpellation debate, we collected evidence from the Swedish Crime Prevention Council, the Coast Guard and the police. I can see, if I may draw any statistics, that during these years the number of registered sea fillers has fallen by 43%. Brå notes that the state of the sea fillers have decreased by 40 per cent. The serious offences committed have decreased by 25 per cent. Coast Guards note that the proportion of detected crimes per check has also decreased, from 9% to 3.5%. Coast Guards make the assessment that there has been a change in behaviour, and the same goes for the naval police. As regards the use of resources, it has been noted that this is not something that crowds out other activities. There has been an increase in compliance, which has enabled the number of controls to be reduced in recent years and has enabled resources to be allocated differently. During these years the number of drowning accidents has decreased. Between 2004 and 2009, an average of 36 people drowned per year. Between 2010 and 2015, the figure is down to 30 people. We know that in addition to lifejacket, alcohol is one of the causes of human death. Monitoring and evaluation is needed. I think we are doing this: the job has already been done with the basis that we collected from the authorities in the run-up to this interpellation debate. We will establish a memorandum containing all the information we have collected on the statistics available, and we will publish it. They then draw their own conclusions on the effects of the legislation. It must be noted, however, that the law that you introduced has actually had a positive effect on both compliance with the rules and safety at sea.
i-096ea5be9b9adc1b-23	Madam President, I would like As I said in my interpellation, it is reasonable to make a serious assessment of the legislation. There was a lot of criticism of it from a lot of consultation bodies before it was introduced. There are also questions today about legitimacy. It is difficult to compare boat and car in this context, I think. If a boat runs at 15 - 25 knots, it corresponds to 28 - 46 kilometers per hour. Then remember that 25 knots is a pretty high speed on the lake. Our Nordic neighbours have legislation that sets the limit on the lake at 0.5 per mil. It is a limit that is much more balanced in view of the risks that exist and the responsibilities that you always have as a boatman. I am pleased to hear that there is some scope for evaluation and clarity on the effects of legislation. It is also important to look at accident statistics with the previous limit, if you discuss whether to set a higher limit of 0.5 or 0.8 or a lower limit of down to 0.2. What per mille limits you have is a fairly significant difference in the possibilities of, for example, taking a glass of wine to the food. I also think that it is reasonable to evaluate the regulatory framework on who can be prosecuted in the framework of this legislation. It is not very clear to individuals what is meant by the wording that persons on board who have a bearing on the safe operation of the boat can also be punished for drunk driving. How is that to be interpreted? There are also legal cases where people have been convicted of having to get up at night and move a boat because of approaching bad weather. Is that reasonable? Well, that's a question. As an archipelago resident in the summer with my own experience of boating, I am keen that it should be safe to travel out on the lake. There are many who overestimate their own ability and without knowledge, sense and life jacket go out into large boats that go fast and that they do not really master. They pose a much greater risk on the lake than those who go out with the boat to an archipelago restaurant, drink a couple of glasses of wine for the food and then drive home again. It is this reasonableness and risk assessment that I think needs to be evaluated, as well as how people are judged and who can be judged. A great deal of resources are needed to monitor compliance. Would this not crowd out something else? This applies, of course, to the same police who have a lack of resources to deal with crime, as we hear every day. In the same way, Coast Guards should devote themselves to those who are in front of boats with no sense and no knowledge and who present a much greater risk to their environment. As has been said, it is gratifying that there is still some scope for an evaluation. But I think that the evaluation could also include the application of the law. It may be possible to look at whether adjustments are needed in order for the law to have greater legitimacy and not to be unclear to those affected by it.
i-096ea5be9b9adc1b-31	Madam President, I would like Then I guess I'll have to ask Maria Stockhaus to clarify herself. Does she want to raise the limit from 0.2 to 0.5? Is this what she's after? She wants to tear up the law in that part? That's exactly what I asked for. She reasons a little, but dares not say what she really thinks, but only questions. Sometimes you actually have to be clear in politics. In the interpellation, she demands an evaluation, a follow-up of what has actually happened. I have drawn up exactly the statistics we have collected from the Crime Prevention Council, the police and the Coast Guard. It shows that the number of prosecutions decreased in the period 2010-2015. This applies to both normal and serious sea-filling offences. The number of reported offences has also decreased. The number of drownings has decreased. Compliance with the rules has apparently increased; the controls now involve fewer people with too high a level of per mil than they did in 2010. It has declined from 9% to 31⁄2%. As a result, the police have been able to redirect their resources. It is estimated that we no longer need to carry out as many checks as we initially did. In essence, I would like to say that this law has had a positive effect on safety. However, in order to meet Maria Stockhaus, I have said today that everyone will have to form an opinion on this and look at the basis that we have collected. As I said, we will establish a memorandum at the Ministry of Justice in which we will report both the Coast Guard's assessments and all the statistics available for these crimes, so that you can follow year by year what has happened, as I said. Then each person gets to form an idea of whether or not this has had an effect. When Maria Stockhaus sees that basis, it is possible that she will come to the same conclusion as I do. I don't know. But in the meantime, perhaps she should be a little clearer about what she really wants. Does she want to tear up the law or not?
i-096ea5be9b9adc1b-34	Madam President, I would like The basis for the new legislation was the ambition to reduce the number of people who die in accidents at sea related to alcohol. However, there was a great deal of criticism in the consultative bodies. There are people who question legitimacy and refer to the negative effects that have arisen, for example on domestic tourism. The limit is set at 0, 2, the same as for car traffic, which I may find doubtful. I have no opinion as to which per mille limit should apply. What I have said is that I do not think the statistics presented by the Government are enough. I think it would be reasonable to appoint someone who can make a proper evaluation on the basis of a number of different parameters with regard to this legislation. Then you have to decide what to do after that and if, for example, there is a need for adjustments in the legislation or a change in the per mille limit. I want to see that evaluation. How often have there been between 0.2 and 0.5 and between 0.5 and 0.8 for the offences committed? There are many different details in these statistics that I think are important to look at, because the limit 0.2 is set on the grounds that it should apply the same on the lake as on the roads. I do not think it is reasonable to treat boat traffic and car traffic in this way. It is important that this balance is struck. As I said, this is not the most important issue, because safety always goes first, but our archipelago areas are sparsely populated areas. It's hard to survive there. Getting a restaurant to work takes a lot of work. This has had a negative impact on domestic tourism in our archipelago areas. It is still the case that security is superior, but the question is whether adjustments can be made so that the law does not have as much effect on those industries. That would be interesting. I would like to see an evaluation that looks at the different boundaries.
i-096ea5be9b9adc1b-37	Madam President, I would like I have reported the effects of the law from a safety point of view in accordance with the evidence we have received from the authorities. We will also put this together in a memo. Then Maria Stockhaus, like everyone else, gets her own idea of this. As far as the per mille limit is concerned, as mentioned above, the number of prosecutions fell for both types of offences, both of the standard grade and the serious offences against the sea-filling law. I can only say that the legislation that you introduced in 2010 has had positive effects. Nevertheless, I think that is rather important to note. If it is the case that prosecutions are reduced, the number of reported offences is reduced, the number of drownings is reduced, compliance is increasing and controls have been reduced precisely because compliance with the rules has increased, I think that this is a positive development. However, as I said, the discussion can be continued on the basis of the basis that we will present. With that, I think we have met with the interpellier on the follow-up issue.
i-096ea5be9b9adc1b-41	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked me what initiatives I intend to take to facilitate domestic adoptions in Sweden. The child's best interests are at the heart of adoptions. No other interests must prevail when a decision on adoption is made. Of course, for children and young people who, for many years or perhaps all their childhood, need a different home from their parents, this is a vital issue. Every child has the right to feel safe, especially the children that society has taken on a special responsibility to protect. Adoption can in some situations increase the conditions for stability and continuity for the child. But adoption is also irreversible, so it is necessary that other appropriate efforts have been carefully considered before doing so. When children are long-term placed outside their own home, primarily a custody transfer is tried before an adoption. In long-term placements, the social welfare committees must work to ensure that the child grows up in safe and good conditions. The so-called reunification principle permeates family and social legislation, since in most cases it is considered to be the best for the child. For a limited group of children, adoption may be an option. According to the National Board of Health and Welfare's re-reporting of a government commission in 2014 on national adoptions, it is mainly about children who lack parents in life and children placed in family homes as very small and who are very likely not to be able to return to their biological parents. One of the conclusions of the report is that social services do not always pay attention to the fact that exceptions may have to be made to the principle of child-parent reunification. It was noted that an in-depth analysis was needed of how to ensure more long-term and stability for children who cannot live with their parents. In light of the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's report, the investigation into forced care for children and young people has been commissioned in 2015 to further highlight the issue. The investigator has, among other things, been tasked with analysing the reasons why custody transfers and adoptions are used to a relatively small extent and considering what measures may need to be taken to ensure that the social welfare board pays greater attention to these opportunities. The study, like the 2008 adoption study, made the assessment that the social services need to have knowledge of the adoption rules and that the National Board of Health and Welfare should develop working methods to promote consensus solutions when adoption is deemed to be in the best interests of the child. The most recent investigations have therefore not assessed the need for legislative changes. There are no explicit obstacles to the Social Security Board considering the issue of adoption. Nor is there any obligation to raise the question. Such an obligation risks not taking sufficient account of the circumstances of the individual case. Moreover, it is not in itself an objective to increase the number of adoptions. Instead, it is a question of providing adequate support in the management of social services so that the issue of adoption is addressed and considered in cases where this is considered to be the best for the child. The starting point is that all adoptions should be based on the needs of the individual child. I intend to continue to follow the matter. I will have a dialogue with the National Board of Health and Welfare on how support in municipal administration can be improved in order to best create stable and secure housing conditions for children who are or are deemed to be long-term.
i-096ea5be9b9adc1b-48	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I understand clearly that I and the Government share the view that the best interests of children always come first. Those children who cannot grow up with their biological parents for various reasons have a great responsibility in general. I myself have been on the social welfare board of a municipality for a term of office. I would like everyone, or at least all politicians, to have a chance to do so for a period of time. It brings humility to the difficulties that children and families may face. Children who are taken care of and placed with other than their biological parents are particularly vulnerable, and for them we have an extra responsibility. Adoption means that children will have a permanent family even after they are 18 years of age, unlike a family home that is an administrative decision that can be changed with a pen line. About one out of every four longer placements ends prematurely when the children are in their teens. Since I have teenagers myself, I can understand that sometimes it is a bit challenging to have teenagers at home. But that means that they lose overnight the only family they may have, the only security they had in life and where they may have lived for ten years with their family home parents. Despite several advantages, domestic adoptions in Sweden are now extremely rare. There are very few children under the age of 18 who are adopted each year, while about 25 000 children are placed in foster families for shorter or longer periods or in institutions. One reason for the low number is that adoption in Sweden almost invariably requires consent from biological parents. For example, in the United States and Britain, children's rights to a family weigh more heavily, and children are adopted against parents'will. Of course, this does not happen as a first step, but it is possible. Taking away parents their children is a major procedure, and it must be considered very carefully. Unless otherwise, the vanvårdsutgängningen shows what disastrous consequences government decisions can have for children. I find it hard to see that past failures are supposed to be a cause of passivity when children are suffering today. Madam President, I would like A family home placement is reviewed every six months. Although that is what one might call anecdotal evidence, it is a case that has touched me very much. It's about two sisters who had a mentally ill mother with substance abuse problems. Every six months it was time for a review. In the face of every reconsideration, the mother talked to her daughters and said that now she would surely see to it that the children could move back in with her, something that the two sisters absolutely did not want. This meant that every six months the family home had to deal with the anxiety and anxiety of the children. You can think about how children grow up if you are going to do this every six months. Is it really the best interests of children in such a situation? I wonder if that's the case. I interpret the Government's response as the need for social secretaries to gain a better understanding of adoption and opportunities. When can we see concrete proposals for support for the management and training of social security secretaries by municipalities?
i-096ea5be9b9adc1b-56	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus. It is certainly not in any way my task to value the interpellation or commitment of Members of Parliament, but I would like to thank you for the interpellation. I think it's interesting. There is no mistake about the commitment, and I share it. I make a lot of visits to social services in municipalities. This is indeed a fundamental task for social services and for all of us who take responsibility in society in the positions we have. After all, it is somehow we who become the parents of these children in some sort of transferred sense. That is why we have also tried to strengthen social care for children and young people very much. We have a long list of decisions that we have taken. Among other things, we have strengthened staffing for the social care of children and young people in order to be able to do better investigations about each child. As far as the group of children we are talking about here in particular is concerned, health examinations will be compulsory. We have also strengthened the efforts of schools for these children. Unfortunately, we know that placed children have worse health and lower school scores even though we also know that the best thing you can send with a child in addition to security and love is good education and good health. There's really a lot to do here. I'm the first to agree with that. Of course, I have been familiar with the matter over the years and have read a lot. Something that I find interesting is that our Nordic neighbours have some other systems, although we often think we have similar societies. What I think I will discuss with the National Board of Health and Welfare when I meet them very soon is the question of increased knowledge of the particular group of children we are talking about here. We have investigations that have not proposed any change. There are no such proposals to prepare precisely on the subject of the interpellation. But I believe that knowledge can still be strengthened. It would also be interesting to refer to both the National Board of Health and Welfare and the relatively new Agency for Family Law and Parental Support if you can compare with Nordic countries how they reason. The best interests of the child should be at the centre. The people I meet who work in social services are not passive but work very hard for the children's good and what the law says. However, we often refer to a strong tradition we have that biological bonds should be strong. As I said, the mismanagement investigation really gave us a homework assignment. You can still find out how they reason in other Nordic countries. Do we have anything to learn there? They do not have what we call custody transfers, which is a Swedish solution in these cases when appropriate, but they have a higher degree of adoption. I think it would be interesting to do some kind of lighting of it appropriately.
i-096ea5be9b9adc1b-62	Madam President, I would like I think the discussion will be interesting. I share the commitment to these children. Our legislation does not allow us to adopt without the consent of biological parents. I can feel that as long as that possibility does not exist, we do not put the best interests of the children fully ahead of the parents' right to the children. This can be about children being taken care of already at BB where the parents are never ever judged to be able to take care of the children. This is an extreme case, and it will, of course, only be considered in very extreme cases. But there are cases where one parent has murdered the other parent, and now the one who has murdered is in prison but is still the guardian of his children. Thus, from prison, the parent can more or less control the children, and the children are forced to visit in prison. In such a case, consider whether adoption against the parent's will could not be an option. The issue is, of course, extremely complex and would need to be carefully investigated before such far-reaching interventions are opened up to parents. But if we seriously put the best interests of our children first, I find it difficult to see that such an opportunity would not have to exist. I would like to hear the Government's view on opening up to such an opportunity and at least examining the conditions for such an opportunity to exist.
i-096ea5be9b9adc1b-67	Madam President, I would like The question has been investigated. Among others, the LVU investigation submitted its proposals not long ago. There were no proposals of this kind at the time, for it was not considered necessary to do so. The issue has therefore been investigated quite recently. As far as I can see in the documentation, there are also not so many experts who are familiar with the issue that advocate adoption without consent. On the other hand, we know that we have a legal option today. There are no legal obstacles to adoption, and yet there are very few. There are various reasons for this. However, I am prepared to open up to this in such a way that you look at how you think in other Nordic countries. What makes it clear that these are good solutions? My starting point is simply that I think it is far too bad for a society like Sweden and a welfare society that should really have the highest ambitions for these children that we see these differences in health, education, schooling and so on. Security is hard to measure, but what we're going to send with these children is, of course, love and security. We will try to assist with families and placements that can give this as much as we can. There is a reason why we have the tradition that we have in Sweden with the strong ties to the biological parents. But I find it interesting to look at how to reason in other countries. Is there perhaps something there that we can bring in?
i-096ea5be9b9adc1b-72	Madam President, I would like The children we're talking about-- those cared for by society-- belong to our most vulnerable. When I sat in a social welfare committee and read the investigations, I went home and hugged and kissed my own children and shed a tear. These are terrible situations that some of these children have, and their welfare and woe must come first. I am quite involved in school matters, and I am appalled that social services have not been monitoring the progress of children in school for a long time. Discussions with family homes have not set goals for children to succeed in school – this despite the fact that we know that school is one of the most important protection factors in order to have a good life in the future. Growing up in a safe home with safe parents is, of course, an even more important safeguard. More children cared for by social services could probably experience it better if there was a greater opportunity to use adoption. It sounds like a lot of information and training is needed for social secretaries. As the Government says, there is a tradition of not using this instrument. I will use the typical words that you as a minister usually say: I will follow developments. This is an issue that I am committed to, and I think it is important that we can dare to question our traditions and previous positions on the very view of adoption. It is also about the possibility of adopting an infant if someone feels that they do not want children at present, but it is not about this interpellation. Today it is really only abortion that is the only way out in Sweden. Perhaps this possibility should also exist, but as I said, it is a completely different interpellation that I will have to take another time.
i-096ea5be9b9adc1b-77	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the call! There are at least two of us who follow the matter carefully, and that is a good thing. I think we will take the issue of adoption and abortion another time. This issue is also, at least for me, about the situation of social care for children and young people in general. Social secretaries who are there are often extremely committed, skilled and knowledgeable. But they have simply had tough conditions for a long time. Therefore, it is also important for me to continue to strengthen and raise the status and to do what the government can to strengthen both parties and municipalities in their responsibilities in these vital decisions and in caring for these children. This is a general question of the working conditions of social services and the opportunity to further educate and have time to investigate in the sense of the law. But it is also about how to modernise thinking around these specific situations. I, like Maria Stockhaus, have taken note of the way in which social care services for children and young people act in relation to other actors. It is quite clear from the time spent by the national coordinator that there is very little time for, for example, discussions with the school. Of course, it is also a responsibility at the school to do the best for all students. There is still much to be done, and I look forward to further debate.
i-096ea5be9b9adc1b-83	Madam President, I would like Michael Svensson has asked me if I will develop an action plan that includes qualified processes to increase the number of lecturers in Sweden's municipalities. I agree with Michael Svensson that the opportunity to develop in the teaching profession through regular training is of the utmost importance to improve teaching and thus provide the conditions for students to raise their results. More teachers with in-depth subject competence and didactic competence are important in improving the quality of Swedish schools. In this context, lecturers naturally play a special role. As Michael Svensson points out in his interpellation, lectors can help to strengthen the scientific basis on which education according to the School Act(2010:800) should be based. The Vice-Chancellor's services are already open to PhDs and teaching-savvy researchers from universities. On the other hand, there is a need for efforts to increase the number of lecturers in schools and to make greater use of the in-depth skills of the graduates already active in schools. Statskontoret recently submitted its third and final interim report on the mission to follow up the career stage reform. The report shows that there were 244 senior lecturers with or without a state grant in spring 2016. It is a failure of the career service reform that such a small proportion of the total of some 15 000 career positions are lecturers. In addition, a report from the Swedish National Agency for Education states that seven out of ten teachers who have been appointed lecturers have some time allocated to research or more comprehensive development work, but there are also many lecturers who believe that their skills are not exploited and used effectively. In its interim report, the School Commission considers that a national professional programme should be established. In the Commission's view, the programme should establish a number of qualification levels that represent clear development steps and career opportunities for teachers. The Vice-Chancellor is mentioned as one of several examples of qualification levels which the Commission is now considering for its final report, which is presented on 20 April. The Government has decided to instruct a special investigator to submit proposals aimed at providing better conditions for teachers, preschool teachers, principals and pre-school managers to carry out their duties (dir. 2016:76). The directives to the investigator show, among other things, that there is reason to analyse how the career path system and the teacher's salary initiative can in future work together to contribute to the best possible school development. For example, there may be reason to analyse and consider whether incentives can be created that will eventually lead to more lecturers in the school system. The Government's research policy proposal announces a pilot project to develop and test models that can strengthen practical research and that can lay the foundation for robust structures for collaboration between those working in the school system and at universities and higher education institutions. It is essential that school lecturers can be given the opportunity to engage in research in different ways in order to strengthen the development of the profession's own knowledge base. In order to increase the number of lecturers in Sweden's schools, several universities organise so-called graduate schools for teachers. The research schools give professional teachers the opportunity to combine their work as teachers with taking part in doctoral studies. Furthermore, the government is investing in improved opportunities for researchers to become teachers in school and thus increase the number of qualified to apply for senior lecturer services. A special training grant of SEK 25 000 per month is awarded to researchers who study supplementary education for one year. In total, therefore, a solid work is underway that aims to strengthen the scientific foundation of the school with a number of different measures, including by creating models for long-term collaboration on internship-related research between universities and higher education institutions and by increasing the number of lecturers in Swedish schools.
i-096ea5be9b9adc1b-93	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister of Education, for your answer. I definitely think there is a lot to build on there. Of course, this is not an issue on which there should be any political disagreement. I myself defended the reform of career services when it was introduced, and I can admit that it is a failure. I thought in my oblivion that there would be considerably more senior lecturers in the Swedish school. One might ask, Is this of great importance? Approximately 1.9 million pupils attend the country's preschools and schools. There are 260 000 employees there, there are 400 000 students in total and there are 15 000 new students in teacher training. Is it important to have a few hundred lecturers? Yes, it is important in the same way that the principals are important for the staff at school when it comes to raising and enthusing them, seeing their skills and leading the educational work. The truth is, and this happened long before both I and the Minister became active in education policy, namely in the 1950s, that the knowledge objectives have been dismantled quite effectively over all these years. There are a number of other goals – the pupil's education and critical thinking and democratic education – that have been highlighted instead of knowledge. This is where, among other things, the importance of the lecturers comes in. In the 70's there were 1,500 senior lecturers in Sweden, and now there are about 250. Yesterday, the Education Committee organised a seminar to highlight these issues and the research schools in Sweden. There were some peculiarities that we should all react to. One thing is that there is a lack of applicants. Even more strange is that the principals do not really see the need to hire lecturers. I find that extremely strange. Then I wonder a little whether the level of knowledge of educational boards, independent heads and administrative managers in the municipalities is really right. Some municipalities said they'd rather have two too rigid than a lecturer. There are also few applicants, and the problem is even bigger in small municipalities and in sparsely populated areas, because there are virtually no lecturers at all there. My question, of course, is what the state and government can do more to ensure that there are more senior lecturers in Sweden. I also wonder whether the Minister for Education shares my analysis that it is extremely important to have a scientific connection and therefore to employ lecturers in school.
i-096ea5be9b9adc1b-99	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Michael Svensson, for both the interpellation and the post! Yes, I fully share the view that we need more researchers in school. Everyone who works in a Swedish school should work on a scientific basis. All teaching must be done on a scientific basis. The support to make it so much stronger if the teaching team and the college have researchers and people who, in parallel with their teaching, choose to research their practice. The development we are experiencing today where educational science and educational research are increasingly moving towards and value the practice-related higher – what is actually happening in the classroom, what provides learning – is also strengthened by the fact that we have more active teachers who are researching. The teaching profession must be, above all, a research profession rather than a profession for which research is carried out. I therefore fully share that view. The failure of the career service reform meant that there were so few lecturers compared to what Michael Svensson and, I believe, everyone who participated in the debate when the reform was introduced believed that it would be and what you had reported to you at the Education Committee's seminar yesterday means that we have to think about: how do we ensure that there will be more applicants to senior lecturer positions and better conditions for hiring senior lecturers and creating a better willingness to do so? In the short term, of course, the measure we are now taking to improve the conditions for researchers to study a supplementary educational education is important. It is a big step that you can thereby receive 25 000 SEK a month as a researcher to study supplementary education. But it is an individual reform. The big thing in the long term must be to make it natural for principals to see that they employ lecturers in their organization in order to build a qualitative teaching organization and for teachers to choose to develop to become senior lecturers. To create such a natural development path for teachers and a natural situation for principals to employ is based on structures. That is why, in my response, I am pointing out two structures that we are now building. One is a national professional program. The School Commission is now developing the framework for such a programme, and the School Commissioner Björn Åstrand, Dean at Karlstad University, then has the task of having a professional programme on the table before the end of the year, which includes the possibility of teaching. This, of course, makes it much more natural for a new teacher or teacher in the middle of the profession who is thinking of his development to see the position of lecturers as something to develop towards. The second structure that we are building is that in the research policy bill we announce experimental activities in order to link higher education institutions and universities more closely to the principals in more places. There are examples that it works very well today, but in many places there is a great distance between the university and the principal, which in practice means that the people who could function well and raise the scientific level out at the schools are people who heads and higher education institutions are fighting to hire rather than cooperate if you see what they have to add to both the HEI and the principal. We sketch out in the research proposal what such a structure may look like. Helene Hellmark Knutsson has also announced that this will also receive a special investigation.
i-096ea5be9b9adc1b-107	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. There are some commendable initiatives there. I can tell you, a little bit to illustrate that there really is a need for a substantial boost in knowledge, when I was going to guide a number of students here in Parliament this autumn. We walked through one of the beautiful rooms here in the Riksdag, and there hangs four large portraits of the Speakers in the 1809 Estates Day. I asked the students if they had any idea what was happening in Sweden in 1809. There were two important events that year: a new constitution and the loss of Finland to the Russians. None of the students had any idea about this. And it wasn't just any students, it was future teachers on the subject of history. I was horrified at this, and we talked about it for quite some time. Here comes the need for the lecturers once again. Our seminar yesterday also revealed that many municipalities see advantages with lecturers but also risks. Exactly who didn't show up. Of course, there is a need for more and better educational discussions at school as a whole. There is a need to strengthen the research link, which we have both been involved in. You need to take advantage of skills. One problem highlighted at the seminar was that several of those attending the research schools do not return to school. They do not want to work in primary school, and several of them continue into administration or at their HEI, university or college, where they have attended a graduate school. Of course, it is also a problem that not even half, I think it was, come back to work at their school. Of course, we need to work on that. One teacher, who had attended graduate school and was now a lecturer, pointed out that as a lecturer, one has far greater legitimacy when talking about and wanting to lead research-based teaching than many of the first teachers have. That's why it's important. The Minister mentioned the research bill. One problem with it is that the investments made are late in the period. That is regrettable. Can't that be done again?
i-096ea5be9b9adc1b-113	Madam President, I would like It was convenient that we had a seminar about the research schools yesterday. It raised a lot of thoughts. One figure that got stuck in my head was that there are currently 700 qualified qualified teachers. Unfortunately, the figure reported by the Government has fallen. Today there are only 169 lecturers in Swedish schools. You'd wish the 700 people were out in our schools. It would be interesting to see what they are doing today, because they are not out in schools. You can talk about system-level changes. But I think we have a very touching understanding that there is little going on if there are no changes in the classrooms. As I said, we had the pleasure of listening to an amazing teacher. She was a lecturer and had researched her subject, biology. She felt that she had developed a lot and could give her students a lot more. She works at Kungsholmen Upper Secondary School. It's amazing for the students who go there. But you would really wish that this type of teacher and lecturer were present in schools that may have a little bigger challenges than Kungsholmen Upper Secondary School, which probably has the highest intake points in the whole of Stockholm County. What was highlighted in the hearing was that teachers had in some cases applied for doctoral studies. The heads had signed; they understood what it meant. But when the teacher was accepted and it turned out that the price tag was at 500,000 a year, the principals dropped out. The funding is therefore an important part. I, who have been on the main side before, may in itself think it could be worth 500 000 to get that competence into their school. But that's another thing. The Government says that it wants to review career positions together with the teacher wage initiative, to see if they can be combined to give even greater impact in schools. That sounds interesting. I am curious about the timetable for such an evaluation.
i-REM71H96qG7srMXfcpksy2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Michael Svensson and Maria Stockhaus, for the opportunity to discuss this on Friday morning! This is indeed one of the issues that can make a big difference in practice, in reality in schools. I see this when I visit all regional school managers, from municipalities, free schools and professions – through trade unions for teachers and school leaders. At schools where you can work actively with research while conducting your teaching, it is clearly visible; it provides a clear improvement in quality. Michael Svensson pointed out that the problem is that we have too few teachers who choose to graduate, who see it as a natural part of their teacher development. And we have too few principals who choose to prioritise it, as Maria Stockhaus also mentioned. Moreover, those who choose to do so return to school to far too little extent. You do not see the school as a workplace where you get the best conditions for using what you have trained to at the university. That is where the issue of professional programmes becomes central. How do we build a natural development for teachers? Part of it should be to train towards such depth in your subject or didactic competence that you become a lecturer. It has been missing in Swedish school. It has been lacking in the image and culture of a teacher's profession. The picture is that you start as a newly trained student, go into a classroom and teach there and do it in a similar way until you retire. We know it never really happened that way. It is clear that experience has also helped to improve the quality of teaching. When there have been structures for learning from colleagues, this has led to collegial and collective learning. But the culture and perception of the teaching profession have looked like that. That is what we need to change, to an idea and a culture of training as a teacher and developing in the teaching profession during the course of one's teaching. The professorship program is the way to do it. This makes it clear to teachers about different paths of development. Developing towards a lecturer is such a way. To answer Maria Stockhaus's question, it is in the professional programme that there is reason to look at how to link teacher's salary lift and career services. How can they be seen as different stages of a teacher's development? The teacher's salary boost is so broad that virtually all those who develop in their profession should be considered for a government wage increase during their teaching service in primary or secondary school, while career services are narrower and are about developing specifically and taking on special assignments during their teaching work. The timetable for this is that the framework for a professional programme will be presented by the School Commission on 20 April. And Björn Åstrand has the year – the final report will be made in December – to try to anchor with the parties what something like this should look like. They will also clarify the rather difficult question, in a labour market such as the Swedish one, about what is stated was in a professional programme. What does the state own, and what do the parties own? In the latest negotiation between the teachers' associations and SKL, it is included that you should be active in such a process. They are the ones who, together with Björn Åstrand, have the government's mission. The timetable is therefore in 2017.
i-096ea5be9b9adc1b-128	Madam President, I would like I started the debate by saying that there are many problems and many challenges in Swedish schools. I think I and the Government share that analysis. One of the biggest problems and one of the biggest challenges is the 15 000 pupils who leave upper secondary school every year without complete grades or who even drop out before leaving school. We know, on the basis of socio-economic calculations, how crazy it can be for those later in life in terms of income as well as sick leave and the like. Based on the Swedish School Inspectorate's latest report, we know that many of them enjoy Swedish schooling, but also that insecurity has increased. It's kind of like Maslows's need theory. There are a number of basic problems that we need to overcome, such as order and order and peace of mind in classes. But once we've got it in place, perhaps through improved leadership training for the country's teachers, among other things, we need to constantly address the development of knowledge. That has, as I said, been a shrewd result. I think many municipalities are too small or too weak. They don't have enough resources. Perhaps they do not realise the need, as was also demonstrated at yesterday's seminar. I believe that the state needs to control more and that more government efforts are needed. There are some praiseworthy attempts in the country, including in Uppsala. And the Association of Local Authorities in Skåne told us yesterday that there are very good activities also going on in Skåne. But if we are to have a good and equal school across the country, we need to ensure that more municipalities have such activities.
i-096ea5be9b9adc1b-134	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by talking about something that touches on this subject. The Government talked a little about the view of the teaching profession, about stepping into the classroom after your teacher training and then teaching the same way until you retire. My picture is it doesn't look that way. But there are some such teachers left. I was a little worried when I read a survey where it says that 50 per cent of Swedish teachers do not feel that they have a responsibility to keep up to date with research on their subject or in pedagogy. I believe in this matter of lecturers, in getting that competence into more schools, that one can naturally see the value of the link with research in school. The teacher from Kungsholmen Upper Secondary School was fantastic. One thing I am particularly fond of and wondering about is how many of the lecturer services are in the schools that would really need them. We have had discussions in the past about the government removing career positions in exclusion areas. Getting lecturers and more career positions into schools with the biggest challenges is, I think, an important factor. We need that tow help. Statskontoret's evaluation also shows that career services have increased schools' focus on school development, which is good. That was the idea, so it's a great success. How can you create services that make it attractive to go back to school instead of staying at higher education institutions? Can you imagine combining services or other things? I have great confidence in Björn Åstrand, and it will be exciting to follow his work on the professional programme this year. I think it's a very important part of putting pressure on teachers to feel that they have to take responsibility for their own development. It is also important that there are clear steps. Many other countries have it and are successful, not least in PISA.
i-096ea5be9b9adc1b-140	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to emphasise that what I described was a picture of the teaching profession, a picture that is reproduced. I would say that teachers in Sweden want to develop and do so to a large extent. Now that we have improved the conditions for reading to special teachers, the number of teachers who choose to do so within the Teacher Lift has increased tenfold. If you provide good conditions and in a good way value that you develop together and develop in the profession, that is also what happens. That's what teachers are driven by. There I hope and believe that Maria Stockhaus and I share the view of reality. I would like to make two specific comments. One is Michael Svensson's call for more regional cooperation. It is also something that the School Commission clearly identifies. For this to work, you need to sit down regionally with principals and with state support from both school authorities and higher education institutions and, for example, develop joint recruitment strategies. It is clear that if you can link it with professional programmes, it can work very well and make us get lecturers also in small municipalities, where they are currently largely lacking. The second is Maria Stockhaus' observation that today we do not have the highest number of career positions, nor the highest percentage of qualified teachers in schools where the school has the greatest impact on the future of students. That, of course, is totally unacceptable. When we talk about socio-economic weighting of resources, we cannot just think about money. We also need to think about where teaching resources should be: with the pupils and the children to whom the school means the most. Then career services in exclusion areas are a good thing. I didn't remove them. That bet is bigger. The problem is that it is being used far too little. I have not touched on the state subsidy introduced by the previous government, but it has very low utilisation rates. I have introduced a new state grant that can be used, but it also has too little use. That is why we need structures that push for more lecturers and career services in schools that need the most – and the professional programme has such a part in its design.
