i-a43474e588777f4d-4	Madam President, I would like Jörgen Warborn has asked the Minister for Finance if she will start work to improve the impact assessments in the proposals submitted by the Ministry of Finance to the Riksdag. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the question. In order for Swedish companies to have competitive conditions in relation to the outside world, it is crucial that the rules are appropriate to limit the administration required to comply with the regulations. Services, treatment and short processing times are also of great importance for a competitive business environment and for increasing growth and employment. There is an untapped potential in digitalisation as a tool to make it easier for companies while there is an expectation from Swedish citizens and companies that more government contacts can be managed digitally. Impact assessments are central to achieving more effective rules and it is important that they are of good quality. The Swedish Agency for Growth has a responsibility to provide advice, support and training to regulators at all levels, and intensified support is crucial in order to improve the quality of the impact assessments that are established both at the authorities and within the Government Office. On 1 December, the Government decided to give the Swedish Agency for Growth a mandate to develop a digital guide for the work on impact assessments in regulatory matters. The guide should serve as a concrete tool for the preparation of an impact assessment. There is a dialogue with the Swedish Agency for Growth on how the advisory and support efforts should be directed in the future. In order to achieve success, concrete support measures need to be put in place where the needs are greatest. For example, the Regulatory Council has identified that it is often calculations of costs for companies that are flawed. It is therefore important that the advisory work in the future should consist of concrete support so that the Government Office and other regulatory bodies can improve, in particular, the cost estimates in their impact assessments.
i-a43474e588777f4d-8	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I and Mikael Damberg had a debate on this issue only at the end of November. Then it was a little broader about impact assessments. Today it's about impact assessments coming from the Ministry of Finance. Since I had asked Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, I am somewhat surprised that it is Minister of Innovation and Industry Mikael Damberg who is debating with me today. I will come back to this in a moment. The background to my asking this question is that this is linked to the business environment. If we have good impact assessments, we Members of Parliament can take good and balanced decisions that ensure that the legislation that affects companies provides as little bureaucracy as possible for them. This allows companies to focus on their core business. When we debated in November, I commended Damberg. We share opinions on a number of different issues. First of all, we both think that the level of impact assessments is too low. Quality must be raised. Damberg said that a good basis for decision-making increases the conditions for creating appropriate rules. I also agree with that. We also share the view that, if we get to grips with the impact assessments, it is expected that this will ultimately lead to both increased employment and increased growth. Unfortunately, only 36% of the impact assessments last year were acceptable. According to the quick analysis I've done, it seems to be at its worst at the Ministry of Finance. That is why I have asked the question of what the Minister of Finance should do to overcome the problem. I am somewhat surprised that it is Mikael Damberg who is taking the debate. For the sake of clarity, let me repeat the question that I put in the interpellation: Will the Minister of Finance start work to improve the impact assessments in the proposals that the Ministry of Finance leaves to Parliament? Now that the work seems to be so distributed in the government that it is the Minister for Innovation and Industry who takes these issues, it must mean that he is responsible for all the impact assessments that the government presents. It must be a very heavy job. Of course, there will not be a great many proposals, but there will still be some and it must be hard work to take responsibility for all of them. In the Proposition Handbook, it is stated that each department is responsible for carrying out these in bill cases handled within the department. I take this as meaning that it is the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance who is responsible here, not the Minister of Economic Affairs. Now Damberg says that the manual should be made digital and that this is the solution. I don't mind it becoming digital, but I think it's good. However, it will not be a sufficient measure. I think we need to do more things to get to grips with this. I would like to hear Mrs Damberg's opinion and comments on how the government has organised this work. Will the Minister of Economic Affairs be responsible for all consequence preparations?
i-a43474e588777f4d-17	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jörgen Warborn, for the interpellation and the opportunity to debate this important issue again! I also did not think that we would be debating this again so soon after the last debate. I expected that new statistics for the following year would have arrived to see how this development had turned out. Jörgen Warborn promised this in the last debate. I look forward to such a debate. We have just reorganised the work of the Regulatory Council in order to get closer to the regulators and get closer to the process of drafting the rules. This is why the Swedish Agency for Growth has now received this specific assignment but has also been commissioned to work with a digital tutorial to make sure that you think right from the start when designing rules and impact assessments. Thinking right from the start is probably the absolute best we can do when we draw up rules. I have the primary responsibility for this work in the government. Then, as always, all departments have to do their part of the work, but I am the political manager of this work, and that is why I am answering the questions. We've just reorganised. We debated this last time too. One can have slightly different views on how independent a regulatory authority such as the Regulatory Council should be and how closely it should be linked to those who design the rules. Here we have found a balance between independence and a closer link with those who actually issue new rules. We believe that training efforts will have an impact, with concrete tools such as the digital guide and with other measures that will enable us to reverse this development. Looking between the different departments can be done over time; I think it will be very difficult to just look at a year ahead or back. One can say that it varies very widely between different departments but also between different years, which indicates that it is not the individual department's problems or challenges that are central – we have a generic problem in the Government Office taking great responsibility for these issues. That is why we have organised the work in this way. I can, for example, note that the Ministry of Finance is one of the departments that have participated in educational efforts together with the Swedish Agency for Growth to see how to be better at using these possibilities to design impact assessments in a better way. I believe that we have a common responsibility to follow this issue in the future. Everyone has their own responsibility in such a process, of course, but the Government Office as an authority also has a responsibility to maintain high quality in this. We believe that the new organisation will facilitate a more structured and preventive approach to these issues.
i-a43474e588777f4d-23	Madam President, I would like I understand that Mikael Damberg has political responsibility for this area. But I still think what he's saying is a little in conflict with what's in the Proposition Handbook. I think it is dangerous if the other ministers believe that it is Mikael Damberg who will be responsible for all the impact assessments. As far as the Rule Council and its organisational residence are concerned, we have no different opinion at the moment. Now let this work through, and see what happens to it! Then you have to evaluate it in a number of years and see if it gets better or not. Let us come back to that! Madam President, I would like Let me be allowed to be a little more technical to examine how the Minister for Innovation and Industry has reasoned on some individual impact assessments from the Ministry of Finance. The Council has expressed its views on growth aid. It is an issue in which we have a political conflict in itself. We, for our part, may not think that this will be the best way forward. But it is about reducing employers' contributions for individual traders when they hire their first person. In the regulation, I think there are about a dozen different points– I cannot exactly– that the investigator or the committee will go through. In the area by area, the impact assessment is criticised. In his interpellation response, the Minister says firstly that you should look at cost estimates and get better at it. I think that is a good thing, but I do not think it will solve the whole situation. Secondly, we are talking about the organizational perspective. Thirdly, if I understand correctly, the chapter on the impact assessments in the Proposition Handbook should be made digitally. I don't think this is going to take off. I do not believe that it will be enough to respond to impact assessments regarding, for example, inadequate information measures or how to look at the vulnerable situation of small businesses. There are a number of points that one looks at in an impact assessment. How does the Minister view this? Will the measures you have taken to resolve the situation improve the impact assessment of a case such as growing aid? How had a digital tutorial solved this issue? They say that they should provide advisory support for cost estimates. This means that the Minister for Innovation and Industry will advise the Minister for Finance on how the Minister for Finance will make cost estimates, if I understand it correctly. It's gonna be a little weird. I have another example of an opinion. It concerns the European Commission's directive on a common corporate tax base. It's a big case that affects a lot of companies. In that case, the Council was not given sufficient time to give its opinion. Then no digital manuals will solve that question. Furthermore, any advisory efforts focusing on cost estimates will not solve the issue.
i-a43474e588777f4d-32	Madam President, I would like Impact assessments are an important tool to make wiser decisions and to arrive at good legislation that supports both growth and other social policy objectives that we can have in this House and in the government. But this tool does not solve all the problems. It is about the basis for the decision and an analysis of the situation. I'll take the last question first. In some cases – we know this in this House – we end up in a time situation where otherwise normal processes cannot really be carried out in the same way as usual. There are exceptional provisions for which preparatory work must be done for such legislation and rules. Sweden as a nation may need to introduce rules quickly. This could involve unexpected legislation or a regulation that needs to be developed to deal not least with international situations. Then it may have to go faster. Part of the work on impact assessments is also to sort out cases and target the quality of impact assessments, especially in those areas which are of major importance for SMEs' ability to act. They are often the victims of difficult rules and time or cost issues in their work. Larger organisations are often more familiar with new regulations. I believe that the ambition of everyone in this House is that the rules should be as good as possible, regardless of the size of the activity they affect. But it is clear that the rules that have a direct connection to activities that affect very many companies, for example, have a greater importance in the context of impact assessment than other rules. It is important that when working with impact assessments, this ranking discussion is clear. After all, we must focus our efforts on what makes the most difference. The digital guide we have given a mission about. We will see exactly what effect it will have when all the work is done and it has been tried. But my experience is that when you work with tutorials that also help you to follow different steps and processes, you do not miss different steps in the impact assessments. This makes it easy, for example, to get the issue of the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises and whether it costs companies time and money to implement new legislation. I definitely believe that such work, if used, will be important. I do not believe, however, that the impact assessments can be seen as the only thing to discuss in terms of what kind of policy we should conduct or decide on. Impact assessments can be interpreted in different ways. There can also be different policy assessments of which actions have a significant impact or not. This is gonna be a tool. It will not solve all the issues, and I do not think it will be possible to look at the statistics and get all the answers on which legislation will apply in the future. But what we fully agree on is that impact assessments are a neglected work whose quality needs to be improved. No one benefits from the fact that the investigation material from the beginning is too inadequate to be able to make real and wise decisions in the future.
i-a43474e588777f4d-39	Madam President, I would like I think the government's on the wrong track. You put your strength and faith in digitization to solve this. I have absolutely nothing against digitising the manual or making other checklists. But the regulation is really clear. There are a number of points to look at in an impact assessment. The problem is the investigators don't. They don't go through that work well enough. The guide, the Proposition Handbook, already exists. There is also an associated checklist. A special memo is developed for this. Either you have to look at the instructions or it takes political leadership to get to grips with the question and say: Here we have a real problem. We need to address this problem and reverse the trend of some very poor impact assessments. That is what I expect the Minister to do. The impact assessments need to be improved. For them to be, we'll have to put the right measures in place. You have to do the right analysis and the right measures. I believe that the government has carried out partly the wrong analysis and, as a result, the wrong measures have been put in place. There are more ways to use a. In particular, the government has organised this as it has done, that is, the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation is responsible for all the impact assessments. It seems very strange. Precisely how the work is organised within the government is one of the greatest opportunities for the impact assessments to be improved. When I intervene with the Minister for Finance or perhaps the Minister for Rural Affairs next time, I think it is crucial that those ministers respond to how they intend to work on these issues. Political leadership is needed on these issues. I have no doubt that Damberg has a focus and an interest in ensuring that the impact assessments are improved. But I don't think anyone is capable of dealing with all the consequences.
i-a43474e588777f4d-46	Madam President, I would like It is important to see that although I have a political responsibility, not least for the Swedish Agency for Growth and issues of simplification for entrepreneurship, it does not upset the division of responsibilities that exists when making proposals or drafting legislation in general. There you have to follow the rules that exist. One can always say that other things would be done and that a digital guide is not effective. We'll see about that. What has so far proved difficult in impact assessments is precisely that investigators have found it difficult to assess the financial consequences. This applies not only to the state budget, which is part of the impact assessments, but also to the financial impact on an individual company, an industry or a sector affected by new rules. It is there that a digital tutorial but also support from the Swedish Agency for Growth and the Swedish Council for Rules has worked on these issues for a long time can be a support for those who work early in the process of developing new proposals. I believe that a new organisation, more focus, clear follow-up and parliamentary debates like this will make us better over time. It applies to all departments and not just the Ministry of Finance.
i-a43474e588777f4d-49	Madam President, I would like Mr Rothenberg has asked Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson what he intends to do to counter threats to and strengthen the protection of elected political representatives. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The government takes a very serious view of trends towards a hardened climate of discussion and debate. Too large a proportion of elected representatives suffer from threats and hatred. Nearly three out of ten elected representatives were subjected to threats, violence and harassment during the 2014 election year. The threats and hatred have consequences, for example, that elected representatives leave office, hesitate in the face of an action or avoid speaking out on certain issues. The silence or silence of elected representatives due to fear or concern is a threat to democratic dialogue and, in the long run, to our democracy. As Minister for Culture and Democracy, I would like to stress the importance of preventing the vulnerability of elected representatives to threats and hatreds by raising awareness of and raising awareness of these issues. The report "Political Safety Survey from the Swedish Council for Crime Prevention" (Brå) is an important knowledge base that lays the foundation for effective preventive work. In June 2016, the government commissioned Brå for the fourth time to identify the extent of threats, violence and harassment against elected representatives. An important part of the work is to increase the notification propensity and counteract the normalisation of threats and hatred. Furthermore, elected representatives who are exposed to threats and hatred need support, and there must be procedures for dealing with vulnerability. Preventive work and support for elected representatives need in particular to be improved at local level. Therefore, in June 2016, the Government allocated funds to the Swedish Municipalities and Regions (SKL) to support and develop the systematic work of municipalities, county councils and regions to prevent and manage threats and hatred of elected representatives. In addition, a broader approach is now being taken to issues relating to threats and hatred of the democratic dialogue. In 2017, the Government will present an action plan to start a more systematic work to prevent threats and hatred of elected representatives, journalists and cultural practitioners, who are key actors in our joint public discussion. The preventive measures for which I am responsible need to be coordinated with police action and legislation. The policy authority's work to combat crimes that threaten fundamental rights and freedoms, including elected representatives as target groups, remains a priority. The police have today to deal with democracy and hate crime groups in the three metropolitan regions, and in the other regions these cases are handled in special order. At the beginning of the year, Gudrun Antemar handed over the report Privacy and Punishment (SOU 2016:7) which proposes how legislation can be modernised and provide better protection against threats and violations. The investigation's proposals are now being prepared within the Government Office. The government thus has a number of ongoing efforts that provide a good basis for future work. In the light of the development of society in recent years, these issues are of great concern to the government.
i-a43474e588777f4d-55	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Threats to political representatives are a phenomenon that is changing over time. It is a phenomenon that causes many elected representatives to leave their missions. This makes many reluctant to enter into the commitment of democracy that is so important. It can be anything from perceived criticism of unpopular but often necessary decisions to online hatred and direct threats to their own person or persons in their vicinity. Recently, a local politician was murdered in Finland. Last year an English parliamentarian met the same fate. There are about 40 000 elected councillors in municipalities and county councils around Sweden. It is these people who are at the heart of the political act that underpins Sweden's democracy. Without these tens of thousands of people who devote their free time and also take time from their jobs and families to contribute to social development, Swedish representative democracy would be severely curtailed. Madam President, I would like It is perhaps not we who sit in the Swedish parliament and the Swedish government who face the toughest problems when it comes to threats and violence, but it is the leisure politicians. We have access to security police and security services. There's a structure to handle it. However, for those who go to Tuesday's meeting every three weeks on the district board and are forced to decide to cut back on childcare, care and sensitive matters, there is no real protection. There is also no organised protection. I think the Minister mentioned that 37% of all municipalities have an action plan for threats to politicians – according to the Swedish Municipalities and County Council. But that is not enough, because 63 % of the municipalities do not have this. Strategies are needed, but action is also needed. I put my interpellation to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. You might think it's cut like the stub which minister responds to the interpellation. But I can see from the answer that the Minister for Democracy talks a lot about prevention. Yes, it's important. It is important to prevent the whole thing. But the first reason why I wanted to address the Minister of Justice is that there are concrete threats and actions against individuals almost every day in the country. We need a response to that, and we need action. I look forward to the Government's action plan coming forward in 2017. Unfortunately, this is something that has escalated in recent years. Those of us who have been engaged for several decades at different levels in Swedish democracy are experiencing today – I think it applies to everyone here – a change in tone in the debate both face-to-face as well as online and in other contexts. It is important that this is prevented, but it is also important that it is dealt with once the real problems arise.
i-a43474e588777f4d-63	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Rothenberg. I share Mrs Rothenberg's horrendous statement of reality. I also share Mrs Rothenberg's view that the most vulnerable are our leisure politicians – our local and regional policies. There is another structure for security and handling e-mails, letters and so on for those of us who are in the Swedish parliament and in the government quarters. That is precisely why solid work is needed in all these areas. Despite some scepticism from Mrs Rothenberg to prevention, I would like to stress this very point, because that is what is missing. It is made clear in the studies that are now available that, for example, far too few of our municipalities have local action plans for how to deal with these issues despite the fact that the municipalities are the area where the most vulnerable are. Preventive action is needed. I'm being asked what professional support is required. It requires us to lie on our municipalities. That is why we have given this mission, as late as last year, to Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils. They will work on the issue much more actively. They have received support to do this, and they will continue to receive support for it. You can develop fantastic action plans, have good ideas and add resources at national level. But this must also become a clear concern for our municipalities, and there must be support for them. When I am out in our country and meet local politicians and regional politicians, everyone is testifying to this challenge and this problem. This applies not least to the consequences of hatred and threats, namely the defection. What is most serious about defection is that it is the young people who leave politics – they who should carry our system further. I saw this during my time as the Director-General of one of our authorities, who is responsible precisely for the issues of providing support for young local politicians and for mentoring. What many young local politicians witnessed was the loneliness they felt with the lack of support from older local politicians when it comes to how they dealt with these issues. One of the testimonies that I have carried with me over the years since then came from a young politician in a municipality – actually a young Moderate – who turned to his chairman, the adult politician, and asked: How can I do this? She then got the answer: This is what you have to get used to. I'll never forget that, because then it's gone very far. When we do not even have preventive work to counteract young local politicians being told that this is something you have to get used to, it has gone too far. We must have much better-developed methodological support at the local level to enable all parties to capture this, but also to create security and concrete tools. It is important to make our politicians – young and old, but perhaps not least the young – feel that politics is something they want to invest in and work with. They should feel like they want to be politicians. This young moderate politician remains. She's going to be, and she's already, a tough opponent. But, as I said, we need a very professional and solid job. The SKL mission will continue. The action plan will provide a systematic basis so that we follow up on this and not just continue to get a lot of reports about how bad it is. We shall also measure and note that the efforts we make have an effect. I think that's what we need.
i-a43474e588777f4d-70	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. It is good that an action plan is being drawn up, and it is good that preventive work is being done. But it needs to be complemented by a plan for how to act when realities arise. There are four different kinds of threats to politicians, especially leisure politicians. I'd rather talk to you about recreational trust representatives. We politicians are full-time, but, as I said, there are 40 000 people who do this in their free time. They are elected representatives; they gain the trust of other people. They are often forced to leave their jobs, and this hampers career development. Being a leisurely elected representative is not a dance on roses. That's worse pension points. There are many things that make it not very wise to engage in this, if you're going to look at it cleanly. But there is something positive in the second balance: to be able to participate in society, to be able to influence and actually make reality of what many are sitting at home saying that someone else should do. It's about what's happening online today. I have personally noticed an incredibly tarnished tone from 2014, and then I am still an opposition politician. I should really get applause and cheerleaders because I'm chasing the government with all the power that Alice Bah Kuhnke is worth. But something has happened, and it is a tone that not only concerns young people. Without naming anyone – for that should not be done in the Parliament's pulpit – I can say that I am thinking of a person I have known for a number of decades. It's a gentleman who's come up at an age and who spends a day squirting out hate and pure racist posts on social media. I think this is really worrying. It is not a juvenile sin, and it is not something you can call immature behavior. This is deliberate. It is people who are out there who are targeting both people in groups and individual elected representatives. We have criminal actors, MC clubs and others. It is enough that someone wants to establish themselves in a small municipality to make it a real fuss. There will be envelopes for political representatives with pistol bullets. The signal language is clear. There are individuals who can go after individual politicians. It may be people who have been affected by certain decisions. We know that not everyone is feeling very well – not even in Sweden. Maybe something's broken. We are all allowed to take part in this, and perhaps it is this type of contact that concerns the most. It is also about opponents, and I think that is the least of the problems. It is these groups that are responsible for this: the anonymous, the criminals, the individuals involved and the politically extreme opponents. It is a change of standards that has taken place. Politicians must dare to make uncomfortable decisions. Such threats affect the political process. I said that I think it is good that there is a systematic action plan in progress. However, as far as the realities are concerned, I would like to give the Minister the chance to mention something in this debate: what does the government see to be done in concrete terms once the problems arise for the individual elected representatives? This could be about someone leaving tomorrow.
i-a43474e588777f4d-79	Madam President, I would like In concrete terms, there needs to be awareness. Both Mr Rothenberg and I have read the reports to which we both referred, and although much is being done, there is still some sort of idea which unfortunately prevails in too many rooms that this is something to be tolerated. With knowledge and increased awareness, we must break that myth and cause our municipalities and regions to break it down and develop action plans. This figure, well over 30%, is far too low. There must be local action plans. It will be an important part in the future that we ensure that work is done. Land will be built by law, at least in my opinion. Of course, we must have legislation that works in practice, and that means, as the Minister for Migration and Justice and the Minister for Home Affairs have previously pointed out, that the police need to have the additional resources that they now have and that these three centres of hate crime have the opportunity to continue working and developing their methods. However, in order for them to develop the methods, we also need to ensure that the number of darkness, which is currently far too large, is made visible. There are also studies showing that too many elected representatives, not least locally, do not report the threats and hatred. It will be an important tool, on the one hand, for obtaining additional resources for work and, on the other hand, for raising awareness that this is a major problem and not only for those who are exposed but also for our entire society when those whom we have chosen and who have been entrusted with local, regional and national policies are threatened when they do so. A number of actions will continue to be required. We now have several documents that we work with and that we will present during the year. Among other things, we have the basis in the form of Olle Wästberg's democracy investigation where Olle Wästberg writes several proposals that will in different ways strengthen politicians, not least local politicians, opportunities to operate, do, think and think. With regard to the various types of threats described by Mr Rothenberg, I would like to add further wood to the fire by adding a category, namely the violent extremism. In the work carried out by the national coordinator at national level, we have three identified violent extremist groups. They are also extremely active. You can categorize them under the criminal, because it is criminal acts to carry out and advocate violent extremism, but it is also a big thing that we deal with and, above all, work a lot with locally and regionally. As I said, we need to be many who work together from different platforms to raise this issue. I am extremely pleased that this interpellation debate came about thanks to Mr Rothenberg's question, because we also need to identify this problem further across party boundaries and work together to get these action plans in place so that all politicians, wherever they are in the country, feel a sense of security and a desire to continue their work.
i-a43474e588777f4d-84	Madam President, I would like It is 20 per cent of the leisurely elected representatives who claim to be vulnerable. There's a dark number there. However, only 17% report this hatred and these threats and harassment. An important aspect to consider is confidence in the system. If this is reported, an action must also be taken. There must be feedback, and we know that 63% of municipalities have no action plan for this. It's serious. There is another aspect to consider, and it is about the loved ones. It is not often that you can feel reasonably safe for yourself, but there is always someone who knows where your daughter goes to swimming school or where your wife or husband works. I assume that the government has thought about this, but it is still a contribution that the external pressure on the local environments of elected representatives involved in leisure activities also plays a very important role. This is about securing the future of democracy and securing the recruitment of the elected representatives of the future. This is important. I think it is good that an action plan is being drawn up. I had hoped for a little clearer signals as to whether it is intended to change the scales of penalties and to make other assessments of this kind of persecution. That would be a signal called good. Anyone who does this, anyone who exposes someone else to hatred or threats, must have their own responsibility, and responsibility means that you also have to take the consequences when something is not going right. It's good that the police get the resources. I hope that the police will also have clear directives and then they will have enough muscles to deal with this.
i-a43474e588777f4d-89	Madam President, I would like As far as the legislation is concerned, this is on Morgan Johansson's table, and work is under way in the Ministry of Justice to deal with the proposals made by Gudrun Antemar in February 2016. This investigation proposed, inter alia, strengthening criminal protection against threats and violations in several respects. So there is a great deal of reason to come back to this issue and discuss it, but this is on the table. In conclusion, I would like to stress what Mrs Rothenberg also stresses, namely the importance of this work actually becoming concrete and the importance of our politicians, not least our leisure politicians, local politicians and regional politicians, feeling safe in being able to carry out their important work. It is not just about them, it is about all of us and about our whole society.
i-a43474e588777f4d-91	Madam President, I would like Mrs Quicklund has asked me when I intend to give information on the plans to bring the national anti-doping work together into a national anti-doping organisation. As the interpellant knows, the government stated in the 2017 budget bill that a starting point for sports policy is that good ethics should permeate all parts of the sports movement, both in sports practice and in board rooms, both nationally and internationally. The government pointed out that sport's anti-doping work is important. It includes the continued development of the anti-doping activities of sport in elite sport and the contribution of various actors to the joint strengthening of the work against doping in sports. The Government states that it intends, in cooperation with representatives of the sports movement, to take a position on the issue of a single national anti-doping organisation in Sweden. The dialogue with representatives of the sports movement is ongoing, and I am not prepared now to give any indication of a position on the issue of a single national anti-doping organisation in Sweden.
i-a43474e588777f4d-95	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I had probably hoped for a little more clarity and a description of what is happening on the part of the government with regard to a so-called Nado, i.e. an independent national anti-dopni ngsorg anisation. Unfortunately, the doping issues are, we have to say, more topical than ever today. I think we've all been following the media coverage of these cases and the work that's going on around them. I think we can be grateful that the tests have been refined and that it is increasingly difficult for those who are banned to pass the tests. Perhaps sport is also cleaner than ever, after all. However, this does not mean that the work can stop, but we must continue with this. It is an important issue of trust for sport in the future, which makes a great social benefit. I and the Minister for Sport have debated this issue before. And I said in the last debate that I would come back and follow up on the matter. A so-called Nado is necessary in many respects. In the government inquiry, which the alliance government initiated, Antidoping Sweden – A new path for the work against doping was proposed just a Nado. The investigation had many other good and concrete proposals. I think that we should take them into account when we are now going to try to implement this, as I hope the Minister will. Arne Ljungqvist – we can call him the anti-doping legend – has been fighting doping for many years and so on. His connection and proximity to research must also be taken into account in the work ahead. Madam President, I would like A contributing factor in distinguishing the anti-doping activities from the RF is precisely the fact that the Convention of the Council of Europe points to the inclusion of all sport in the anti-doping convention. This is not the case in Sweden. Let's get out of here. Sport which currently competes at national and international level is excluded. They are not affiliated to RF and are therefore not covered by the anti-doping activity, i.e. the state-aided activity. That's not good. Food supplements are significantly increased. That's worrying. Even youths talk about eating food supplements. We also know that food supplements are pouring into the country completely out of control. The supervision of it really needs to be strengthened urgently. It is the municipalities that have supervisory responsibility. They have poor resources, and they don't have time to give this priority. For example, the Swedish Food Safety Agency and the Swedish Medical Products Agency reviewed 43 dietary supplements at one time and found several known side effects of these. Those preparations are still online and in stores. Several doping cases have also come to light. It's about new target groups. Now women also get caught up in doping controls. That's worrying. My question to the Government is once again: how does the Government view developments today? Can he, in more detail, describe the process going on with regard to Nado? He'll be happy to come back on that.
i-a43474e588777f4d-106	Madam President, I would like I am just as concerned about the development as Saila Quicklund is. However, we should remember that many of the most prominent doping cases in recent years have taken place in other countries. It is also international that the biggest concerns about doping exist. This depends, among other things, on the history and tradition that has existed in Sweden. There is a strong commitment to anti-doping work. The work has been carried out systematically. Not least the sports movement itself has shown clear leadership. This must be taken into account when discussing changes in work. In my opinion, it is important that the sports movement is on the train, that there is an understanding of the changes to be made and that there is confidence in the possible new organisation that will then emerge and be responsible for the anti-doping work. It is on this very basis that we are in dialogue with the sports movement. We want to discuss possible ways forward in order to establish an anti-doping activity covering all sports and all sports activities. Although we in Sweden have come a long way in terms of anti-doping work in organised sport, we have, as Mrs Quicklund suggested, problems when it comes to unorganized sports – perhaps especially in gyms, mainly men between 18 and 35 years of age. There is much more to be done here. It is also because of what we have decided to turn over every stone. This applies from the discussion of a stand-alone anti-doping organisation to the idea of being able to carry out checks, including in privately owned gyms and the like. I believe that we must be prepared to take different types of action if we are to move forward and reduce doping in society as a whole.
i-a43474e588777f4d-110	Madam President, I would like I still feel that the Chairman of the Swedish Sports Federation is in favour of Nado. That would facilitate the process, if there is a will to do so. I also believe that a number of different measures must be taken, but Nado is an important variant. I would like to take this opportunity to raise a question. Last autumn, the Government proposed to doping test gym visitors. I think that the wording and what was said when it was presented were fuzzy. The proposal is somewhat surprising. I'll justify why. The scale of penalties for doping offences and drug offences should correspond. Does the Government have a different view on this? If the government or the Government wants to increase the penalties for doping offences, the corresponding increase should be made in the case of drug offences. Does the government intend to do so and if so, when? It would be inconsistent and unreasonable to tighten the penalties for doping substances, while at the same time the view of drugs risks moving in a mitigating direction. The proposal also includes coercive measures. It does not seem reasonable to grant such powers to a new specialised authority. What I find strange is that the police can intervene today with coercive measures against persons who are reasonably suspected of doping offences. It's done today. What would be the difference? The government will be happy to explain it to me. Representatives of the state may use coercive measures such as arrest, body search, body inspection and search. They are among the most intervening measures a democratic society can use against its citizens. In the case of police and prosecutors, the use of such coercive measures is a delicate balance between the demands to clear up the crimes on the one hand and to respect the privacy of the individual on the other. It is precisely the privacy aspect that has been discussed very much, particularly in relation to this proposal. The Privacy Protection Committee has also concluded that the protection of personal privacy is not sufficiently regulated in Swedish legislation today. As I said, the proposal seems unclear to me. That sounds unimaginable. It must have happened in a hurry. I don't think it's proportionate to the crime either. Above all, it is not legally analysed, because we have two components that should follow each other – doping and drugs. I would like the Government to clarify the proposal a little more, on the basis of the questions I have now asked. Please return with that!
i-a43474e588777f4d-117	Madam President, I would like I am surprised by Mrs Quicklund's turn in the debate. Saila Quicklund places an interpellation where she feels that the government is doing too little on the doping field and that it is too slow to establish an independent anti-doping organisation. I am the first to agree that many political processes should go faster. However, with regard to the establishment of an independent anti-doping organisation, this process must also be opposed to the immediate benefits of moving forward rapidly in this area. Given that we have such a well-functioning anti-doping activity in organised sport, there is actually time to go over the details. There is time to make sure that a change in anti-doping work is so thought out that one can avoid possible pitfalls and definitely avoid any backlash, which would mean that the anti-doping work stops or at least slows down in Sweden. This is the whole reason why we have chosen a process in which, in dialogue with the Swedish Sports Federation, we turn every stone to see how changes to the anti-doping work can be made in the best way, without compromising Sweden's good position in this area. On the one hand, Saila Quicklund wants you to speed up where an urgency is not really urgent. On the other hand, she condemns a debate and a discussion that raises various ways to tackle what is the major problem when it comes to doping in our country, i.e. doping in the unorganized sport, including in gyms, when it comes to young men between 18 and 35 years of age. As a social democrat, I made a proposal last autumn. It was a proposal drawn from the Sports Policy Programme of the Social Democrats. It is a programme that has been developed for a long time and in close dialogue with the sports movement. The programme has a very broad approach where doping is part of it. The possibility of setting up checks at gyms was then examined. Now it sounds at Saila Quicklund that this was something completely different and something you have never heard of in Sweden. But that's not true. In one of Sweden's largest gym chains, Friskis and Svettis, which are part of the Swedish Sports Federation, there is already the opportunity to make checks to detect doping. It is this type of control and this type of activity that I believe needs to be looked at and which can serve as a model for gym chains and individual gyms that are not affiliated to the Swedish Sports Federation. The problem today is that many gyms feel no responsibility to work to prevent doping, to establish an anti-doping culture and, if you discover doping, to try to counteract it and remove it from their activities. This is what we need to get to. However, this is just a proposal in a series of many more that we need to analyse if we are going to carry on the doping work and not least if we are going to get to what is the big problem today, namely the doping system in unorganised sport.
i-a43474e588777f4d-125	Madam President, I would like The Moderates want to see a Nado, an independent national anti-doping organisation where all sports should be included. That is also what the Council of Europe has put forward and which several nations have. This does not mention the Minister, but his action to improve the anti-doping work is that ordinary people at the gym should be doping tested. The integrity aspect does not seem to be present, and there is still a great lack of clarity about this. The reason I put this interpellation to the Minister is that we want a follow-up to work on a Nado. We want greater clarity in the Minister's proposal that people should be tested in gyms. I think there is still a lack of clarity in this area. When proposals are made, like the Minister, and there is interaction between two different legislations – it is doping and drugs – these must be followed up. The Minister has not answered the question if he thinks there should be tougher penalties because he wants to raise the penalty scale for drug offences. There is a great lack of clarity. I had hoped that the Minister would give a clearer answer. However, we will certainly have every reason to come back on this issue. Finally, I would like to thank you for the debate.
i-a43474e588777f4d-130	Madam President, I would like The reason for the work is not progressing as quickly as both Saila Quicklund and I would like to see such a well-functioning doping work, so that we must proceed with care not to allow the good work that is being done today to be made more difficult or slow. That is why it is so important to go along with the sports movement to see what possible pitfalls there are in the establishment of an independent Nado. How can we make sure we're not trying to fix what's not broken? I am absolutely convinced that we will find a very good solution and a way forward, but let it take the time it takes. The alternative, that we rush out something that is badly substantiated just for the sake of principle, I think would be very unfortunate. It would be a battle, not only against the Swedish sports movement but also against the anti-doping work as such. Finally, I would like to thank Mrs Quicklund for her commitment to this issue, and I look forward to new discussions and debates on the anti-doping issue and on other issues. Thank you very much.
i-a43474e588777f4d-133	Madam President, I would like Mrs Quicklund has asked me how I intend to proceed with the proposal to set up an ombudsman for children's sports. I would like to thank the interpeller for raising the issue of the protection of children in the sports movement. This government takes the work of protecting children and their rights seriously. As late as 22 June, the government decided on an updated action plan to protect children against trafficking in human beings, exploitation and sexual abuse. The government's intention to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child a law is established. The protection of children and the rights of the child should always be the first priority, and this should apply in all areas of life. Unfortunately, there is a lack of protection of children and abuse of children in all areas of life. Sport is a large part of the lives of many people, and it is no exception in this regard. Sport has its sport-specific challenges to work with in the same way as there are specific challenges in the religions, school and family, festivals or the internet. I know that the Swedish sports movement has done a lot for the protection of children, and I know there is still a lot to do. I also know that the work is difficult and that it requires both knowledge and long-termness as well as openness and civil courage. Good cooperation with social services and police is necessary. To report suspicions that children are being mistreated by social services should be a matter of course. The support material on safe sports environments developed by Sisu Sports Educators helps associations to work with these issues. As the interpellant well knows, the Swedish sports movement is a free and independent peoples' movement that makes its decisions without state interference. This is as obvious as the fact that sport operates under the same legislation as the rest of society. I do not believe in the idea that the state should set up a special ombudsman for children for sport. I believe in the idea that sport should take on the responsibility that falls to Sweden's largest people's movement and that the National Sports Meeting is the right forum for the interpellant's proposal.
i-a43474e588777f4d-138	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Today, sport is by far the largest popular movement in Sweden with 650 000 non-profit leaders who make fantastic contributions every day for our children and young people and for society as a whole. I often pay tribute to the sports movement, and throughout my life I have worked within it in different positions. In this way, I also know what an amazing social benefit sport does. Approximately 1 million children and young people aged 6-18 are members of an association that is affiliated to the Swedish Sports Federation. Add also those who are not connected but still do sports. 90 percent of all children and young people are at some point a member of an association in sport. This also means that the sports movement has an incredibly large responsibility for the activities being carried out in the best way. Madam President, I would like The Minister for Sport's response really surprises me very much. The answer contains several incorrect interpretations of the structure and organisation of the sports movement and how it works. I will respond to some of the statements made by the Minister. The Minister says: The government takes the work of protecting children and their rights seriously. Please note that children's protection and rights differ considerably between the sports movement and the rest of society. For example, it is not possible for non-profit leaders to request extracts from the load register. It could happen in the school's business. In the case of exclusion, depending on the rules of the sports association, sexual abuse can be a basis for exclusion from the sports association. Sexual abuse can be a ground for exclusion. The Minister says that the protection of children should always come first. In sport, for example, there is and has been sexual abuse. Why, then, do children in sport not receive the support that so many people are asking for? This applies, for example, to aid in individual cases, which cannot be given today. The Minister says one thing about child protection, but in reality it works quite differently. Cooperation with social services is important, says the Minister, and to report suspicions that children suffer ill social services should be self-evident. Yes, but in sport there is no obligation to report to social services as it does during school hours. How is the cooperation between the sports movement and social services taking place, says the Minister? Is the Minister not aware that there is no notification requirement? The Swedish sports movement must be free and independent, says the Minister. I agree. However, the Minister for Health, who is also the Minister for Sport, cannot ignore or ignore the fact that children are suffering physically or mentally and do not receive the efforts they need to ensure that sport is independent. The Minister for Sport is shifting the problem and his overall responsibility to the sports movement. I think that is irresponsible, as it is about vulnerable children and young people. We have heard of many cases of abuse, and those who have been exposed have been clear that the resources are not sufficient. The Minister says this is a matter for the National Sports Assembly. Should the National Sports Federation decide on an ombudsman for children? It's completely wrong. The question is: are all the people who are pointing out shortcomings to the Minister wrong?
i-a43474e588777f4d-149	Madam President, I would like Saila Quicklund claims that there are a lot of errors in my interpellation response. She has not been able to prove one of her statements in the speech she just made here in Parliament. On the other hand, there seems to be a great misunderstanding at Saila Quicklund, and that seems to be the basis for her proposal to set up an ombudsman for children's sports. The misunderstanding is that she compares the sports movement to the school, straight off. It is clear that there are many similarities between Swedish school and Swedish sports movement. Both have activities where children and young people are the most likely to be present. Both have a business where you are dependent on adult leaders who take on a great responsibility that may be beyond what you might call professional responsibility. The big difference is that the school's activity is the exercise of authority. The activities of sport are conducted in the spirit of popular movement tradition. It takes place independently from the state and the authorities. It happens many times on a non-profit basis. The activities are primarily conducted not by professional employees but by non-profit leaders, many times parents. It is a completely different type of activity, where it is not possible to make the same demands as for an authority's activities without making violence at what is the very basis of the association tradition. However, this has not been my main criticism of the proposal for a child sports ombudsman. The proposal is about specifically pointing out the sports movement and sport and saying that we need a special authority for this particular part of the non-profit community. Will Saila Quicklund follow up on her proposal for a child sports ombudsman with proposals for a children's ombudsman for the Scouts' activities? For the church's activities? For the activities of the youth political associations? For all other sectors where children and young people have active leisure time or are present? I don't believe in differentiating in this way. I believe that if we are to tackle the problem of children and young people suffering from sexual abuse, violence, harassment and discrimination, all social actors must be helped together. But they have to do it based on their respective roles. The state, municipalities and county councils and the authorities should do so based on their roles, but the sports movement and other non-profit organisations must do so based on the fact that they are peoples' movements and thus have other conditions but also other opportunities to carry out active work against this type of violence and harassment. I am therefore very pleased that the Swedish Sports Federation has a cooperation with Bris and that the issue is taken very seriously, because that is where you have to start. But it must continue to be that awareness of the problem is growing throughout the sports movement and that this is taken seriously, not only within the National Sports Federation or special sports federations, but all the way down to the level of clubs and associations. This is where it is possible both to detect the errors committed and to build a culture and an activity that will prevent it from occurring in the future.
i-a43474e588777f4d-156	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Sport has pointed out that efforts already exist to compensate for the things that, for example, Patrik Sjöberg and Klas Östberg with several – many others – are running. Unfortunately, these efforts are not enough. We now know that RF together with Bris has a support phone. There is government money for this – it is integration money, which means they are weighted for new arrivals – and support for leaders. This comment was made by Bris in an article in Aftonbladet as late as last week. Mr Bris says that we must now take the abuses that are taking place in sport seriously. So it is not only we who are pushing this issue, but also the organisations themselves. If the Minister had done his homework, he would also have noted that I am saying that the conditions for setting up an ombudsman for children's sports should be examined. It can also mean that the Ombudsman for Children will have increased mandates and resources to be able to work in the individual case, as proposed by Mr Bris. Another issue that absolutely needs to be highlighted in a major investigation is that the Swedish Sports Federation has, remarkably enough, its own, specific limitation period for notification in its statutes. This is what it says: a criminal offence may not be imposed on anyone unless the offence has been declared for punishment within two months of the offence being committed or became known. Two months! This is very remarkable. Why does the sports movement have its own limitation periods that put children's safety at a disadvantage, in addition to registration and two months? Within the school system, to which the Minister does not wish to draw parallels, there is increased protection via the obligation to notify. I have to say: is there any variant that can go in a similar direction in the sports movement? That question is relevant. The Minister has several roles: Minister of Public Health, Minister of Health and Sport. In the other roles, the Minister has stated that it is extremely important that we now investigate the sexual habits of the Swedish people. This is important for health, among other things. However, the fact that children in sport cannot get the support in the individual case that organisations, representatives of sport and so on think we should introduce does not involve the Minister in taking action. Instead, he places all responsibility on the sports movement, is satisfied and trusts it. I also have faith in the sports movement, me about someone. But there are problems, and we cannot turn a blind eye to them. The Minister has several posts that could be appropriate for taking action there. The Caliber radio programme in P1 on 6 June referred to unhealthy relations in sport. I listened to it and was touched incredibly much. I recommend and hope that the Minister listens to that programme. It's incredibly valuable. I think that we can gain a greater understanding of the problems that still exist in an otherwise amazing sports movement that does a lot of good. My question is why the Minister for Sport does not see the seriousness and is acting forcefully on this issue. There are many of us waiting for answers. There is incredible pressure in this, but the Minister pushes it away and says that sport is independent.
i-a43474e588777f4d-165	Madam President, I would like What Saila Quicklund does in her latest post is a rhetorical finesse. When she does not get a hearing for her proposal for a child sports ombudsman, which is a rather specific proposal that she has made on several occasions, she claims that the government and I as sports minister do not care about the issue that there is abuse of children within, among other things, the Swedish sports movement. I would like to say clearly that the government is taking a number of measures to protect children in different ways and in different activities. But to think that, for setting up an authority that should have a special interest in the sports movement alone, it comes from children suffering in our society – in sports or other types of activity – I mean making a serious mistake. This type of problem is only accessible when we allow different actors to interact. As I said in my previous speech, it is about state authorities, municipalities and county councils, but in this case it is about the sports movement as such. At the end of the day, we are talking about individual associations, leaders and parents, who have a great responsibility and whom we must find ways to support. I and several others are opposed to the proposal for an ombudsman for children's sports. I would like to stress that it is not only me and the government alone who think it is a bad proposal, but very strong forces within the Swedish sports movement, among others Chairman of the Swedish Sports Federation Björn Eriksson, have said that it is a dead end. What makes so many of us oppose the proposal is that it is a matter of the separate regulation of part of the Swedish People's Movement, i.e. the sports movement. It is about not having understood that Swedish sport is a movement that primarily takes place on a non-profit basis and that has different conditions than, for example, an authority such as Swedish school. This requires different types of measures and solutions than those that can be found for an activity such as school. It's as simple as that. I welcome a discussion with Saila Quicklund about what we can do more to deal with abuse that takes place within the sports movement but also in other parts of Swedish society. I believe that the proposal for an ombudsman for children is ill-founded and will not solve any problems. However, it will create new ones by making Swedish sport less independent than it should be and what it is today.
i-a43474e588777f4d-171	Madam President, I would like The Minister does not listen to the voices of a child sports ombudsman. The conditions should be examined, as I pointed out earlier. The following persons I will list are completely non-political and support the proposal on the subject, and I would like to point out that they are non-political: Patrik Sjöberg, Klas Östberg, Börje Salming, Anna Haag, Emil Jönsson, Björn Ferry, Heidi Andersson, Mattias Andersson, Ma r cus Hellner, Per Fosshaug, Douglas Murray, Östersund Football Club, Handball Club Varberg, Anna Carin Zidek, Lisa Nordén, Martin Lidberg, Mathias Fredriksson, Johanna Ojala, Bernt Johansson, Susanne Gunnarsson, Kajsa Bergqvist, Mikaela Laurén, Louise Karlsson, Mikael Tellqvist, Staffan Kronwall, Tommy Söderström, Caroline Seger, Magdalena Forsberg and others. Can the signals about the need be clearer than that? It is not enough to say that sport is independent and should be so. There are state objectives for sport policy. That is why a parliamentary inquiry is currently taking place here in Parliament, and I have the privilege of chairing it. We have a special focus on children and young people, and it will be presented this spring. I will come back to the question, believe me! In the answers that the Minister has given me today, there is nothing to comment on, for example, the Swedish Sports Federation's limitation period of two months to report maladministration and so on. This is worth coming back to, and I will do so. Thank you for the debate.
i-a43474e588777f4d-174	Madam President, I would like I think my answers here today were clear. The question put by Mrs Quicklund in her interpellation was: how does the Government intend to proceed with the proposal to set up an ombudsman for children's sports? My answer was that I do not believe in the proposal for an ombudsman for children and that we will therefore not proceed with it. On the other hand, we will go further and, in close dialogue with the Swedish Sports Federation, see what we can do more to ensure that children and young people do not get hurt in sports activities and how we can stop harassment, sexual abuse and violence, which have occurred and which, unfortunately, probably still occur, and prevent it in the future. Saila Quicklund can be absolutely convinced and confident that not only me but the entire government are working to avoid this and to ensure that it ends. I do not believe in a child sports ombudsman, and much of the Swedish sports movement shares my view on this issue.
i-a43474e588777f4d-177	Madam President, I would like Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby has asked me whether I intend to draw up a bill based on the memorandum of the Ministry of Social Affairs and prohibit the distance sale of alcohol from another EU country and, if so, whether it is my view and that the ban on distance selling of alcohol from another EU country is compatible with the EU Treaty. There is no doubt that the regulation of distance selling of alcoholic beverages needs to be clarified. The Alliance Government therefore instructed a special investigator to specify what should be permitted and what should be prohibited in the case of distance trading. The investigator submitted his report in July 2014. Several referrals suggested that the government should wait for the outcome of a then pending case before the EU Court of Justice. The case concerned the Finnish regulation of distance selling of alcoholic beverages. The government shared the views of the referral bodies and decided to wait for the outcome of the Court of Justice as the Court of Justice's preliminary ruling could clarify the scope of EU law to impose restrictions on distance trade. In November 2015, the European Court of Justice delivered its judgment in the Finnish case, which is the basis for the proposal that has now been referred. The proposal is based on the assessment that the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union clarifies that the regulation of distance trade in alcohol covered by a State retail monopoly is to be examined only against Article 37 of the EU Treaty, which regulates state monopolies of trade. On the basis of this article, the assessment is that there is nothing to prevent the proposed restrictions. On the contrary, the assessment in the submitted memorandum is that allowing distance selling can be seen as an infringement of the retail monopoly area and jeopardise the legitimacy of Systembolaget. The report referred to provides detailed reasoning on this and on the compatibility of the proposal with other EU law, including the rules on the free movement of goods. The referral period for the memorandum expired on December 31, and now the usual preparation work is being done in the Government Office. I do not want to anticipate this process of preparation, but we will of course first analyse the views of the consultation bodies before we take a final decision on how to proceed.
i-a43474e588777f4d-183	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Minister Wikström for his reply. At best it can be called ambiguous, but it is really very unclear. I would like to quote: our view and that of the government that bans on distance selling of alcohol from other EU countries are compatible with the EU Treaty. So, according to the answer, the ban is the clear will of the government, or is it? Directly afterwards, we can read in the same answer that there is no doubt that the regulation of distance selling of alcoholic beverages needs to be made clearer. I can agree that clear rules are good in an area such as distance selling of alcohol, in order to ensure the seriosity of the market. But what does the government's response really mean? How should we interpret the ambiguity – regulation or ban – that the government here delivers? If restrictions are needed – and I can agree that they may be needed – what are the restrictions that Minister Wikström sees in front of him? This is not clear from the answer. That is why, Madam President, I now give Minister Wikström the opportunity to tell him what he really wants. What is the will of the Government in this matter?
i-a43474e588777f4d-187	Madam President, I would like I would like to broaden the discussion a little and get into distance trade but also link it to Swedish wine producers and breweries. You can grow and at the same time carry out tourism and tourism, and then you also want to get sales for your products. At Systembolaget's voice last year I asked the question about this with sales from vineyards and got the answer that it is not a question of health, because nobody will consume these goods in a way that is harmful. A bottle can cost up to 700 kroner. Today, these sales can be made via other countries. This brings us to this point of distance selling. For example, it would be a case of running a vineyard in Höganäs and selling their products in Helsingör in Denmark. If this were to be jeopardised and the whole thing would be between the health aspect versus tourism and the industry, it would probably want to have the case examined by the European Court of Justice. If you do that, you will in all likelihood get it right, because Sweden here limits the possibility of carrying out this activity. Then there is a great risk that the monopoly will not be able to remain, and I believe that the Minister will certainly try to counter this. When you try to solve this by demanding that the actors be serious, as Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby did, there is the risk that you will end up in the wrong corner and also lose what you have. You are too eager and you want to do something wrong, if the Minister keeps up with the discussion. I would like to hear a little more about how you think about this issue. Is it intended to use funds that will put us across the EU? In that case, we are heading in the wrong direction if we want Systembolaget to remain in the future.
i-a43474e588777f4d-192	Madam President, I would like I think I need to explain a little about how Swedish alcohol policy works and what is the basis for it. In Sweden, to protect public health, we have established a state retail monopoly in the form of Systembolaget. Only Systembolaget is allowed to sell beverages with an alcoholic strength above a certain percentage, with the exception of those served in, for example, a restaurant or a pub. A monopoly means that it is an operator who has the exclusive right. If other players establish themselves, this means that they no longer have a monopoly. Then the state must act in one way or another. Care must be taken not to establish these operators on the market or to phase out their sales of alcohol. If you do not do so, then you no longer have a monopoly, and then you have to have a completely different legislation for a market where there is free competition. Since we in Sweden have chosen to have a monopoly, we must ensure that the monopoly is maintained in all respects. That is why the government has, among other things, said no to farm sales. It is not because we believe that the bottles of wine or other beverages sold on the farms themselves will pose a threat to public health. On the other hand, this would mean that other sales channels have been established and that other operators are selling alcohol. This threatens the existence of Systembolaget. What we are risking is getting the European Court of Justice on us, and the Court of Justice can say: indeed, you say you have a monopoly, but in practice you do not have it anymore. We want to avoid this, and that is why we have said no to farm sales. For the same reason, we are now looking at distance selling. Distance trading is increasingly conducted in such a way that it could be interpreted as having established new sales channels in Sweden. That is to say, we no longer have a monopoly in Sweden if this type of channel is established to a large extent. We want to curb this. We want to protect the monopoly, because we believe that the monopoly is the basis of Swedish alcohol policy, which in itself means that drinking goes down and that Swedish public health is protected. That is why we have now sent out proposals that anyone who wants to buy alcohol from another country should take care of the transport itself. If you take care of the transport yourself, that means that there are no further sales channels in our country, and therefore the monopoly is not threatened. Everything is ultimately about protecting the exclusive rights that Systembolaget has. As I said, we believe that the monopoly has been important – perhaps the most important tool to keep alcohol consumption down and thus protect Swedish public health. My question back to the debaters is: do you want Systembolaget's exclusive rights to remain? Do you want to keep the monopoly in Sweden?
i-ExZJF1wtSzhjK8U6eGkGLC	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the Social Democratic interpretation of Swedish alcohol policy! My first question is: has the EU questioned the Swedish monopoly in relation to distance trade? Or is this a parallel to the solar tax debate we have had, where the government introduced a tax because it said that the EU demanded it, but then it backed down when it came to finding that the EU did not demand it? I can interpret Wikström's answer as saying that in the Social Democratic world regulation is equivalent to prohibition. It can be good for the Swedish people to know that when you write that you want to regulate something, it means that you want to ban it. It is clear from Wikström's reply that, according to the Government's interpretation of EU law, if it does not prohibit the distance marketing of alcohol, it could threaten Systembolaget's legitimacy. Wikström asked me what I think about Systembolaget. This is a discussion that we should spend much more time on and which we do not have time for in this interpellation debate. However, the wording of the Minister's reply clearly shows that the ban it wishes to impose is one way of protecting the state's monopoly for the future, without us actually knowing whether Europe is demanding it. There is nothing in the answer that the EU requires Sweden to do so. Madam President, I would like The answer shows that the deadline for the proposal was 31 December. It is clear that the government has not yet been able to understand the answers that have been received. It is therefore remarkable that the government seems to have already so clearly decided what it is going to land in, namely a ban. If the government has in principle already decided, what purpose would the government have in sending the proposal for a referral? Is there no will on the part of the government to take account of the responses received? The government has already decided on a ban. Madam President, I would like The main objective has emerged, but I would like the Government to say it again. The main purpose of implementing this ban is to protect the state monopoly. There are different ways to protect Systembolaget. There are different ways of ensuring that Swedish public health is also good in the future. Prohibition is a very simple way to do it. Then, of course, the question arises: What is the next thing that Minister Wikström wants to ban in Sweden? But it is a completely different debate, Madam President. My questions are: Has the government decided in principle before it has read the referral? If so, why did it send the proposal for a referral? And is the main objective of protecting a state monopoly?
i-a43474e588777f4d-206	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is not health, it is the monopoly. Then I am pleased that my party colleague, Christofer Fjellner, who is a Member of the European Parliament, has asked the European Commission a question about monopolies and farm sales, precisely to kill the myth that Systembolaget must be abolished in order to have farm sales. The written reply received from the Commission confirms that farm sales are not threatened by Systembolaget's monopoly. Then you can think about whether you can have this in the future, when it's clear. Systembolaget can have representatives. Today Systembolaget has 500 retailers. If you have 100 more do neither to nor from. As I have said, this has nothing to do with public health, because there will be no rejection of drinking by people buying 700-krona bottles and so on, as we have been in the past. No, the answer is then wrong from the Government, because this can be solved. You can come up with good things in different ways.
i-a43474e588777f4d-210	Madam President, I would like With regard to the first question, whether or not the government has decided yet, I concluded my interpellation response with the words: The referral period for the memorandum expired on 31 December, and now the usual preparation work is being done in the Government Office. I do not want to precede this process of preparation, but we will of course first analyse the views of the consultation bodies before we finally take a decision on how to proceed.
i-a43474e588777f4d-212	The reason why I gave a detailed argument on the background to the proposal that the government has sent out was that the interpellier requested it. If, then, there are comments that show that we need to screw the proposal or that we should do otherwise, I and the government are, of course, open to it. Otherwise, we wouldn't have sent it out for a referral. At the same time, however, a little humility must also be shown on the part of the interpeller in relation to the challenge we face. We have had a case in our neighbouring country, Finland, which has been about this type of sales. It is also that objective, the so-called Alkotaxi case, which has formed the basis for the assessments that we in the government have made when we have formulated our proposal, which we then sent out for a referral. It is absolutely not taken out of the air that there would be a threat to Systembolaget. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson asks about the main objective. The main aim is to protect Swedish public health, but we believe that we protect Swedish public health by maintaining and developing the state alcohol monopoly. Threats to the alcohol monopoly exist in various forms. They are the ones we need to prevent if we want to continue along the path of Swedish alcohol policy. That is what I and the government want, because we see that it has been very successful. We also see that Systembolaget is very successful in itself. People have high confidence in Systembolaget. Every year you get top in confidence measurements, in customer satisfaction indexes and more. We also see that they are fulfilling their purpose, that is to reduce the total consumption of alcohol and thereby help to strengthen Swedish public health. As far as farm sales are concerned, it is ultimately not the Commission but the Court of Justice that decides. It is also with regard to the possible interpretations that we must take the steps we are taking. What is often mentioned in the debate is: Yes, but in Finland you can have farm sales. It is true that you have farm sales in Finland, but then alcoholic beverages are made from herbs and berries that are typical for growing north of the 60th parallel. I don't think it's the kind of berries and herbs that you primarily think about when you want to open the Swedish vineyards for farm sale, but it's drinks made from berries and grapes that grow all over Europe and the world. Then we are looking at completely different types of sales channels from what is given in Finland.
i-a43474e588777f4d-216	Madam President, I would like First of all, I did not get an answer to the question: has the European Union demanded this? Has the EU demanded that Sweden ban distance trade? Or does the government believe that the EU will possibly demand it? How can we ensure that this is actually the case and that there is no new solar tax issue? Confidence in Systembolaget is high. That's good. But we are also seeing a different trend, and that is that the border trade in alcohol is increasing very much. There are many different aspects of alcohol policy that the Government can address, and he can certainly come up with a different ban. The fact that the Government has a clear agenda of its own and aims to ban distance trade is very clear. But a legislative process in the Swedish Parliament also has very clear rules. Earlier today, my colleague Jörgen Warborn raised the issue of legislation and impact assessment with Minister of Enterprise Damberg. That is why I am very keen to hear what Europe has actually demanded. In a number of cases, the government has received severe criticism for its often deficient and sometimes almost non-existent impact assessments. Another case concerns the proposed kilometre tax. The government goes out and says that it will be introduced regardless of the harmful impact on Swedish competitiveness and on jobs and regardless of what the consultation bodies say. The government doesn't say, "He says, "how." You've already made up your mind. I've taken up the solar tax and increased taxes on biofuels. The government introduced it and then backed off. Unfortunately, it is a very negative and sloppy trend that we are seeing in relation to the government's processing processes. Madam President, I would like I would like to put the question to the Government one last time: has the government already decided on a ban? If the answer is yes, it is very remarkable. It is not serious, and it is not very trustworthy. You can't control Sweden that way.
i-a43474e588777f4d-221	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby does not find time to answer the question of whether or not the Swedish alcohol monopoly should remain but, on the other hand, a very large part of its debate time is devoted to mixing other types of questions, ranging from kilometre tax to solar cells. I would have liked an answer to the question whether, according to Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby, we should continue to have an alcohol monopoly. And I would like to know what she thinks should be done to protect Systembolaget's exclusive rights in relation to the sale of alcohol. But I suppose we will have to come back to that debate. I can only repeat – I think it will be for the third time – the sva r that I gave in the interpellation response. It is a question of this being a government proposal. We sent it out for a referral. We have received the referral points. The referral period expired on 31 December– that was ten days ago. Now work is under way in the Government Office, in the Ministry of Social Affairs, to analyse the answers and see how we might proceed with the proposal – should we screw the proposal, remove some parts or add others? But the challenge remains. It's about protecting Systembolaget's exclusive rights. There, distance trade has proved to be a problem that not only this government has understood, but also the previous government, because it was the one that set up the first investigation. I therefore think that I have answered both the interpellier and others in the debate. I look forward to continuing to discuss the issue of how we protect Systembolaget's exclusive rights and thus also the very basis of Swedish alcohol policy.
i-a43474e588777f4d-225	Madam President, I would like Hans Rothenberg has asked me what initiatives I and the government have taken and intends to take to strengthen Swedish companies' opportunities to participate in UN procurements. I welcome Mr Rothenberg's questions. They give me the opportunity to show that the government is proactive on an urgent issue. In 2015, the UN system purchased goods and services for USD 17.2 billion, of which 0.2 per cent from Sweden. UN procurement is expected to continue to grow due to peace-keeping, refugee flows, crises, natural disasters and climate effects. It is a tragic background to new business opportunities, but Sweden can make a difference. Swedish companies' skills are increasingly in demand. This applies, in particular, to goods and services that represent sustainability, quality, innovation, beneficial life cycle costs and system integration. On the humanitarian side, for example, they can contribute to better helping people in flight and in need and to the necessary management with scarce resources. Many Swedish companies, however, hesitate in the UN market, which is sometimes perceived as complex. Therefore, we will highlight the good business opportunities that exist. Business Sweden will provide companies with more support and advice, for example on registration with the UN. In addition, we will work long-term towards a modern UN procurement that will better promote sustainability and innovation. Sweden, as Mr Rothenberg mentions, is a major contributor to the UN system. For example, we are the sixth largest bilateral donor for humanitarian activities. But we cannot demand that the UN buy Swedish. On the other hand, we can strengthen business promotion. Back-up from official Sweden is particularly important due to the formal nature of UN procurement. As part of Sweden's export strategy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has developed a strategy for business promotion towards the UN system. It has been in force since December 2015 and aims at a strengthened, demand-driven export promotion towards the UN that works sustainable, consistent and long-term. The goal is that Swedish companies increase and improve their market processing towards the UN system, that more companies than before process the UN market, that the processing is broadened to more Swedish product and service sectors than before, and that innovative Swedish companies, even small ones, are highlighted. More and more business missions are being carried out to UN procurement hubs – Geneva, Copenhagen, New York, Amman, Vienna, Nairobi, Rome, Entebbe, Bangkok – including in the crisis and disaster management business area. Since autumn 2014, 16 delegations have been implemented. In 2015 alone, 42 companies participated, including 27 small and medium-sized enterprises. Actions are systematically evaluated. They have generated many business ideas, and the companies give them high ratings. In October 2015, the first Swedish business delegation ever conducted to a refugee camp, Al Azraq in Jordan, under the leadership of Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi. The Government Office has co-financed most of the efforts. Business Sweden has received funds in Sweden's export strategy. Among other things, the strategic promotion position of the UN representation in New York, which the previous government withdrew in 2014, is being re-established. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Business Sweden have strengthened coordination globally. Internal competence has been substantially increased. Business needs are systematically identified. The UN Organisational Officers at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, the other relevant departments and the UN Representation are involved. The strategy and efforts have already had a good impact on our promotion system vis-à-vis the UN. Much is long-term work. Nevertheless, the results have not been awaited. In 2015, sales from Sweden to the UN increased by 25 per cent from the previous year to USD 36 million. The increase has certainly taken place from a low level, but the number of Swedish companies that are registered and active in the UN procurement portal UNGM is steadily increasing. More can be done and will be done in the promotion. But it is the companies that have to do the business itself. A promising initiative has been taken by a consortium led by the State Research Institute Rise. A number of companies, authorities, NGOs and institutions active in the humanitarian field are involved. With the support of the Innovation Agency Vinnova, they will develop a collaborative platform and a test bed pilot for sustainable crisis and disaster management. With this link between export promotion and innovation policy, we will eventually contribute to new Swedish solutions for the UN. A level playing field is important. In dialogue with various UN agencies, the Government wants to promote so-called sustainable procurement and innovation procurement. The modernisation of procurement is necessary globally. It responds to the 2030 Agenda: Business innovation must be harnessed in order for us globally to meet the enormous sustainability and humanitarian challenges facing the world. Sustainability and innovation are the hallmarks of Swedish companies.
i-a43474e588777f4d-236	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It was a nice volleyball return on a nice service, perhaps set up for a good answer. Why have I asked this question? This is an issue that I often encounter when I meet Swedish small and medium-sized enterprises that want to go to export. They have products or services that work for a world market, but they generally find it very difficult to find out. Procurement itself is difficult. Public procurement is difficult; my colleague, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, who is working on these issues can really confirm that. It is not easier when you enter large international systems such as the UN. SMEs often feel even smaller when they come out and want to aim for a global market. We in the Moderates presented this with UN procurement and focused on it already in our first nutrition and trade policy exercise in 2014. I'm glad the government came along pretty quickly. Curiously, the lyrics are quite equally obedient. It is good that the government is sensitive to this, but we cannot just be satisfied with it. This is something that needs to go further, and there is reason to look a little more closely at how to develop the Swedish opportunities to participate in UN procurement. The figures change from year to year, but Sweden still accounts for a miserable small part when it comes to UN procurements. Many view this as difficult questions and difficult systems. Perhaps not all services and products are suitable for this type of procurement. Above all, there has been no proper guidance. It is good that Business Sweden, Vinnova and other actors are involved and supported, but it will be very focused on the state agencies when the government will make efforts. Instead, let's reverse the cue. Let us start with those companies that want to enter the market and hear what help they really want. Their answer is not always Business Sweden or Vinnova. Many of the companies have perhaps made a journey where they have tested their innovations and been turned down from Vinnova and may not have received the help from other authorities as they wish. It is therefore important that small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) should also be able to get help in a relevant way on the basis of their circumstances. There are actors in Sweden who are good at international trade. There are a number of chambers of commerce around the country with specialist specialised departments. There are also many smaller companies that have experience in international trade that can also help. Here we from the Moderates have proposed a procurement of export advice. Minister for Trade Ann Linde's representative Mikael Damberg was not keen on such a procurement. In this context, I think it would be interesting to hear whether the current Minister for Trade is prepared to open up for a procurement of export advice which would also benefit Swedish companies' opportunities in the UN.
i-a43474e588777f4d-244	Mr President, I would like to It is important that Mr Rothenberg raises the issues, not least that he is based on the needs of the companies themselves. I already mentioned in my introduction that in 2015 42 companies took part in operations, of which 27 were small and medium-sized. Large companies are not the only ones involved. Mr Rothenberg has doubts as to whether this is the aid that companies want. However, it is important to look at what the companies themselves have responded to in the evaluation. The compilation of the results of last year for the internationally procured business and crisis and disaster management business is not complete, but in 2015 84 per cent of participating companies responded to the survey sent out after an operation. 97 percent of respondents thought that the respective effort was valuable. 86% made contact with potential customers. Seventy-seven percent got you in direct contact with the operation. 70 per cent assessed the business potential as good or excellent. 81 percent thought the stake was good or excellent. I think that the efforts made by the government to support companies have received good dividends among companies. We have rigged the promotion system towards the UN, and it is close to business and guided by what companies are asking for and need. It is not that it is done otherwise, that the government itself proposes what business is done. On the contrary, the companies themselves are in charge and in demand. It is also important to say that it is not only in the UN system but also in other areas that the government is trying to support the companies, namely the development banks and investment banks, so that Swedish companies can invest more in selling their products. I admit that I have not yet got into Mr Rothenberg's proposal, but I am willing to look at it and then we can come back in detail.
i-a43474e588777f4d-249	Mr President, I would like to That's a good news. It has not sounded like that before when we have proposed that smaller companies represented by cosmopolitans, who can act with their own personal experience in relation to their former home countries, can be helpful. In addition, the Moderates have proposed to introduce some form of certification or authorisation to obtain quality assurance. There are many companies waiting for the opportunity to help. It would also create other business opportunities, not only for those who want to export to an international market but also for those who can help in the process. There's a double benefit. I am pleased that the Minister does not reject the idea. Many steps are being done well, but it also needs to be a little lateral. Sweden International Chamber of Commerce, ICC, the Swedish International Chamber of Commerce, has fortunately gained observer status at the UN General Assembly. It's an irony of fate. About a year ago, I spoke to the Minister for Trade's colleague, Margot Wallström, about Taiwan's status in the UN. Taiwan is one of the world's leading export nations, and Sweden exports a lot to the country. That country does not have observer status at the UN General Assembly, but it now has the Swedish International Chamber of Commerce. That's good. I hope that Taiwan too will eventually acquire this status. Such a position can help to increase knowledge. The important thing is that knowledge is spread down to many companies. It is good that there has been a 25 % increase in the number of companies that have become involved in UN procurement, but the percentage is calculated when starting at low levels. Then you start counting quantity. Much of what is procured by the UN concerns health and development. Swedish companies in medicine and medical technology have good opportunities to be on the track here. There will also be opportunities to participate in the procurement of health and welfare services. A year ago I had another debate that landed with Ardalan Shekarabi. How it ended up with him I never really understood, because we really talked past each other. I asked what the government is doing to make it easier for Swedish welfare companies to go on export. The reason I asked the question is, as everyone who works with trade knows, that it is important to have a reference market at home. The reference market shows that those closest to it like what they are doing. Then there are arguments for moving forward on a world market. But when the government opposes Swedish welfare companies to operate at home, they cannot be on the international player. How does the Minister see that Swedish companies in welfare services should be involved in UN procurements? This is about whether markets can be built up in countries if it is not possible to have a home market.
i-a43474e588777f4d-256	Mr President, I would like to I will start with the questions relating to statistics and how much is actually sold. Statistics are, of course, difficult. A telling example is that a couple of years ago Skanska was given the prestige assignment to renovate the entire UN district in New York. It was a billion-dollar deal. But this was not included in the statistics because the invoices are sent by Skanska's subsidiary in the USA. The US got that part even though it is a Swedish company. If the assignment had been included in the statistics for Sweden, Sweden's share would have been larger. Sweden's share has increased from a low percentage, 0.16% to 0.20. This is a 25% increase, and I choose to see it positively and that Sweden is moving in the right direction. It is important that we develop a strategy for promoting business towards the UN system. Basically, it is about how we can highlight Sweden's strength. It is about innovation, sustainability and system integration. In health and well-being, as Hans Rothenberg mentions, Sweden is strong. I certainly believe that we can achieve good practice in this area. I know that Mr Rothenberg is looking for some changes in the systems, but on the contrary, I think it is positive. The government wants the UN to manage its procurements by looking at sustainability and lifecycle costs, but we do not have the full support of all countries. Several countries still want to look only at the price, so-called lowest bidder. Then companies in Sweden do not have a chance. The Swedish company has a chance at is when it comes to sustainable development, for example to follow the Agenda 2030 line to meet the sustainability goals. We believe that this should be of interest to the UN and at the same time strengthen Swedish companies. But here we have to do a job. That is why, as I said, we have restored the position that the bourgeois government abolished, that is, a promoter in New York. In addition, in our department at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have appointed a person who will only handle UN procurements.
i-a43474e588777f4d-261	Mr President, I would like to There was a sad reason why the mission in New York had to close when the alliance government came into existence. We should not delve too much into it, but there was a budget deficit that allowed the foreign administration to cut more than we wanted. I myself have worked as a fair organiser and know that statistics about visitors, exhibitors and contacts that are linked are mummy when trying to create the conditions for future arguments. A person in addition to another person is always 50 percent more, but it is still just a little splash in Mississippi in the context. However, it is good to look at the statistics and measure these issues, because what we see in front of us is that there will probably be more UN procurements. The way the world looks today, and it's a little crazy at times, we don't expect there to be fewer crisis spots around the world. There will also be no need for fewer efforts from Swedish aid or opportunities to contribute through Swedish companies' exports. That is why it is good that the work is in progress and that the government has not rejected the moderate initiatives, but rather made a carbon copy of it all. Now it is you who have the power and the opportunity to do so, and we will continue to examine it. I accept with gratitude the signals about the procurement of export services and hope that we do not need to rewrite it in our trade policy motion in the autumn. However, let me continue to focus on welfare services. Companies in this area need a reference market at home. That is why welfare services will be the focus. Thank you for the debate.
i-a43474e588777f4d-267	Mr President, I would like to Although this is about the UN, let me mention that a recent promotion delegation was held under the leadership of Minister Wikström on specific health and welfare services. We know that Sweden has a lot to offer here and that it is also in demand. I share Mr Rothenberg's view that we are unfortunately living in a very troubled time. UN procurements are expected to grow due to peacekeeping operations, refugee flows, crises, natural disasters and climate effects. It is a tragic background to the emergence of new business opportunities. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs' Promotion and Sustainability is awarding awards to this year's promotion project and to this year's promotion embassy. Last year I had the pleasure of handing it out to the Embassy in Amman for the first trade delegation ever to a refugee camp where the new business promotion area of crisis and disaster management had been brought forward. During the visit to the Al-Azraq camp, innovative solutions were put forward that improve the living conditions of refugees and contribute to housing with scarce resources. The project has paved the way for further field operations as well as promoting sustainable procurement and innovation procurement in the UN system. Together with the efforts in the Government's export strategy and the strategy for business promotion towards the UN system, it is clear that the Government has a focus on strengthening Swedish companies' opportunities to participate in UN procurements. Swedish companies' skills are increasingly in demand. This applies, in particular, to goods and services that represent sustainability, quality, innovation, beneficial life cycle costs and system integration. Sustainable procurement can and should be a powerful instrument to meet global challenges.
i-a43474e588777f4d-273	Mr President, I would like to Sten Bergheden, Mattias Bäckström Johansson and Magnus Oscarsson have all asked questions about the permit processes for small-scale hydropower. The issues concern the costs and what measures I intend to take to ensure the survival of small hydro power until a long-term regulatory framework is in place and the energy policy agreement is fulfilled. The Energy Agreement states, among other things, that Sweden must comply with EU law and its requirements for water activities and that Sweden must have modern environmental requirements for hydropower. The agreement also states that the assessment system should be designed in a way that does not become unduly administratively and economically burdensome for the individual in relation to the environmental benefit sought. Within the Government Office, a process is currently under way to analyse the meaning of the Energy Agreement in relation to the already ongoing work on the preparation of proposals for amended provisions on water activities based on the proposal of the Water Activity Investigation. A water business bill will be written based on the intentions of the Energy Agreement. I cannot precede this process or today give an exact time when the government intends to return to Parliament on this matter. My hope, however, is that it will be possible to do so before the summer. I do not intend to take any new initiatives while this work is going on.
i-a43474e588777f4d-276	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his answer, although I had hoped that the answer would contain a little more than it did about six months ago when we had an interpellation debate on the same issue. It is a major concern that it is taking too long for the government and the Minister to come up with new rules and changes for small-scale hydropower. Meanwhile, activities in our rural areas are dying and disappearing, endangering both jobs and cultural sites. It is remarkable that the Minister and the Government are defying Parliament's announcement and also ignoring parts of the energy agreement, which clearly pressed for this process to be facilitated. Furthermore, we now know, and that is the new thing in this interpellation debate, that governors around the country have begun to contact the Minister and the Government. They want something to be done quickly so that small-scale hydropower is not at risk of being shut down. Mr President, I would like to Both the Riksdag and the Energy Agreement have requested that the licensing process for small-scale hydroelectric power plants be reviewed and facilitated. The aim is to enable small-scale hydroelectric plants to live on and create fine and valuable cultural environments with old mills and sawmills but also to create valuable environmentally friendly electricity production. There is a clear majority who want this to go much faster than it does. In the meantime, however, the government and the minister are allowing the process to continue in the country. You start up new state processes, you let those that are going on continue and you finish the processes that are going on. This means that small-scale hydroelectric plants are sacrificed while the government is working. Mr President, I would like to It is also clear that the government and the Minister are not going to do anything now. Early this summer, there will be a bill. Before it has landed, implemented and implemented with new directives, large parts of small hydropower will already be decommissioned or severely threatened. And it is strange when many people in the country actually thought that the Green Party would be the ones who would protect the small-scale, environmentally friendly hydropower. Instead, it is involved in and contributes to the large closure of small hydropower production in the country. During the short time that the Green Party has held a ministerial position and been in the government, it has been involved in shutting down small hydropower production in the country. This is serious, and I think that the Green Party should protect this production if any party is involved. I therefore repeat my questions to the Minister, Mr President: why do the Minister and the Government not listen to Parliament's decisions? It was taken almost a year and a half ago. Why are the Minister and the Government not implementing what was achieved in the Energy Agreement? And why do the minister and government not listen to the governors who are now trying to get them to understand the seriousness through letters, emails and calls?
i-a43474e588777f4d-286	Mr President, I would like to Today we are discussing small-scale hydropower. In total, small-scale hydropower accounts for 4.3 terawatt hours. This corresponds to the entire annual use of electricity in Gothenburg. Hydropower is important for regulating variations and thus maintaining the balance of the electricity grid. In this way, small hydroelectric power is more important for electricity supply than its share of production shows. The Swedish Energy Agency believes that the role of hydropower will increase in the future. In addition, the Minister, hydropower is renewable and completely free from environmentally harmful emissions. This should, if anything, be of great interest to an environmental-partisan minister. Mr President, I would like to Right now, in Sweden, a witch hunt is taking place on owners of small-scale hydroelectric plants. We Christian Democrats have previously drawn attention to the unsustainable situation of small-scale hydroelectric power plant owners who are at risk of bankruptcy because they cannot afford to phase out their activities or to take the measures required by the County Administrative Board. Many of them are faced with the choice to either invest millions or close down. Länsförvaltningen (Länsförvaltningar) forces dust owners to restore the original environments, even when these measures cause extensive damage to cultural environments, agriculture and third parties. For the individual operator, the requirements of county administrative boards often represent a personal tragedy. Especially frustrating for those affected is that the same county board that just a few years ago may have praised them for the excellent management of the business and is so valuable to culture, the environment and other things suddenly say that everything should be demolished: Remove this! My question is: Does the Minister for the Environment believe that Sweden will continue to have access to electricity from small hydroelectric power in the future? And will the government take the initiative to call off the witch hunt on owners of small-scale hydroelectric plants and find a reasonable solution for the activities under threat?
i-a43474e588777f4d-291	Mr President, I would like to In order to understand the developments that we are now seeing around the country, it is important to know the background. This is not a short-term decision, but we need to go back to history. An important step was taken under the bourgeois government with my predecessor, Minister of the Environment Carlgren, who then made a targeted budgetary effort against the county boards with the stated aim of giving them higher priority to the supervision of small hydropower. Now we see a number of bourgeois representatives outraged by the fact that the county boards are doing exactly what was shown by the directive of the then government. They were therefore the ones who took the initiative to tighten up the supervision of small-scale hydroelectric power. These are processes that take several years; it takes this many years before we see the effects. When criticising the current government, I think it is important for the public to understand that they are talking about measures that they themselves have launched. I would also like to respond to the assertion that a number of governors would have requested meetings to discuss this with me as Minister for the Environment. No such request has been made to the Government Office. What we in the Government Office are working with and which is our focus and take our full attention is to implement the Energy Agreement as a whole. I am surprised if this would arouse criticism from Parliament. Of course, the most important thing is that we now have to launch the broad agreement that has been made between the blocs. However, I am the first to admit that it is a complex and difficult issue that affects several legislations, and it takes some time to prepare it. However, we will come back with a proposal before the summer.
i-a43474e588777f4d-296	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for an attempt at an answer. I have been listening to some other interpellation debates here today, including with Minister Damberg, who discussed that the government has the opportunity in certain situations to skip out impact assessments and other things and to make faster decisions if it is called for to reduce injuries. Clearly, many questions do, and I think that is a good thing. On this particular issue, however, both the Minister and the Government have chosen not to take any other action or to try to stop the process and witch-hunt, as my colleague has just said, in the small-scale hydroelectric power stations. Therefore, the first question, to which I hope to get an answer, must be: is the Minister prepared to take any initiative to stop the processes that start, are in progress and are being completed with regard to small-scale electricity and hydropower activities in the country? It is quite clear that there will be new legislation and a new application to our county boards, which they are also asking for. Then it is quite important that we do not complete all the ongoing processes so that these activities are discontinued, in order to be able to conclude afterwards that they could have lived on with the new legislation and the new way of dealing with it. I think that is a reasonable assessment that can be made in order not to cause more damage than is absolutely necessary. So that is my question to the Minister. To reply to the Minister, I can say that although the bourgeois government took the initiative to look into this, the serious thing now, Mr President, is that the Minister has been watching this for two years and is waiting for it to be implemented without doing anything. That's what's serious. We react – if we have done something wrong, we are prepared to change it. The concern with this government is that one sees the error but is not prepared to change anything to solve the problem. Instead, they try to blame the bourgeois government in their argumentation. You – the Minister and the Government – have the power to do something. You can do it now, but you choose not to. I find that remarkable. Mr President, I would like to It is heard on a daily basis that the owners of small-scale hydroelectric power plants around the country call and are disillusioned, sad and disappointed. They have served the countryside with sawmills, small industries, electric power, mills and other things for hundreds of years. Now they are forced to close down on such dubious grounds as the need for a new state-of-the-art process that requires so much new money and controls that it becomes completely uneconomic and indefensible; it cannot be done. It is clear in the Energy Agreement that it should not cost so much money and be so economically burdensome for the individual. Mr President, I would like to A piece of advice to the minister and the government: Put your foot down! Tell the county administrative boards what they are asking, namely that we want to wait for these decision-making processes until we are done with the work. Let it take as long as it takes. But stop the processes that are making the small-scale power plants and the rest of them are being shut down in rural areas. That is what is important, and I had hoped that the Minister would have been there. But is the Minister prepared to do something to slow down the current developments?
i-a43474e588777f4d-305	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. Last time the question was raised here in Parliament by my party colleague Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell. At that time, the Minister for the Environment blamed the EU and the Water Framework Directive. The magazine West Sweden has asked the European Commission whether the EU wants Sweden to tear out small hydropower. The paper received answers from the European Commission's spokesperson on environmental issues, Enrico Brivio. His answer shows that the European Commission does not want Sweden to shut down small-scale hydropower or tear down small ponds to achieve good ecological status. Instead, the EU Water Framework Directive provides for proper planning, taking into account water quality in the design of hydropower and dams. The requirements of the Water Framework Directive are therefore aimed at the design of new hydropower. Based on the Commission's response, there is no basis for using the WFD as a universal weapon against older plants. So the government has no basis for blaming the EU anymore.
i-a43474e588777f4d-312	Mr President, I would like to I will begin by commenting on the process that the European Commission is pursuing towards Sweden. The European Commission has expressed clear criticism of the way in which Sweden has implemented the WFD and is pursuing an infringement case against Sweden that may eventually be decided by the EU Court of Justice. It is worth pointing out that the greatest risk of such processes is the risk of individual operators becoming liable for payment. The fact that the state acts and is responsive to these processes is important for us to protect the individual operators. The European Commission's criticism consists, among other things, in questioning the Water Framework Directive's requirement that authorisations should not be granted to activities that risk jeopardising the correct water status achieved at the right time and that it be implemented in Sweden. The Commission is also questioning whether we have a review system that will allow us to remedy in time the facilities that are currently blocking the right status at the right time. When we present a proposal before the summer, it is therefore essential that we implement all parts of the Energy Agreement, that we meet the Water Operations Investigation proposal and take account of this legal process. This is what makes the issue complicated and to some extent time-consuming. I would also like to point out that part of this is about funding. Then it is important to remember what is said in the Energy Agreement. In addition to reducing the property tax on hydro power, we have established in the Energy Agreement that the hydropower industry will fully finance costs for, for example, the re-evaluation of activities that make Sweden comply with EU law and its requirements for water activities. There is a process in progress in the industry to develop a proposal for a water fund in accordance with what is stated in the Energy Agreement. We are following this work closely, and we from the government do not want to precede it, but show a sensitivity to the work of the industry and allow it to take the time it needs. There are several processes that are going to land in this bill, and these are processes that we cannot instigate. We have made a historic energy agreement in Sweden, and it takes time to implement all its parts. It's important that it's right. I would like to conclude by saying that what is being proposed about me going as a minister to the county boards and asking them to stop ongoing permit projects would not be in accordance with the Constitution but illegal. Of course, I will not obey that kind of advice but respect the type of authority that we have in Sweden.
i-a43474e588777f4d-320	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the government can make a decision to wait for these processes until the new legislation is completed. It's obvious. It's about will and nothing but pure will. This will obviously does not exist. Let me make one thing clear here, given that the Minister said that nothing has come in about talks and other things. I can inform the Minister that I do not think the Minister is lying, but that she may be a little careless with the truth. I stand with two documents here about the fact that governors around the country have pointed out what they want and that they also want to have a meeting with the Secretary of State in this case. But I think the Secretary of State is working pretty close to the Minister on these talks. If the Minister has not seen these e-mails and these requests, it may be good if she goes through these parts and actually responds to the concerns of the county administrative boards in the country when it comes to dealing with this. It is in fact the case that the county administrative boards, on the one hand, should protect cultural environments around the countryside. On the other hand, they have to shut down small-scale water production, which is often associated with these cultural environments. This cannot be easy for county boards that want to maintain small-scale water production in their areas and see an advantage to it. My question remains: Is the Minister prepared to take some kind of decision to stop the process and the witch hunt that is going on in relation to Swedish small-scale electricity production in rural areas pending the actual implementation of new legislation and application?
i-a43474e588777f4d-325	Mr President, I would like to The Minister replied that a process is currently under way within the Government Office to analyse the meaning of the Energy Agreement. At the same time as it is being processed in the Government Office, the county boards have received more money to continue the witch hunt on owners of small-scale hydropower. Why do the Minister for the Environment and the Government, as it seems, have such a loathy and indifferent attitude towards the progress of the various county boards towards the owners of small-scale hydropower? This is a very serious issue. Ultimately, it is actually about property rights and that there should be confidence in Sweden as a rule of law. The Minister can do much more on this issue. I am convinced that she has the mandate and sees the problem. We appeal to her to see how it looks in Sweden. My final question to the Minister for the Environment is: Will the government create a council room and immediately stop the demolition of all dams around Sweden until the government has processed and analysed the matter clearly?
i-a43474e588777f4d-329	Mr President, I would like to Both I and my Secretary of State have regular contact with the country's governors. At the County Governor's meeting in December 2016, the County Governors decided jointly not to contact the Government and request a specific meeting on the permit processes related to hydropower, but instead to instruct the five County Governors chairing the respective Water Delegation to conduct that dialogue. It will then be part of the ongoing, regular dialogue that is taking place between my Secretary of State and these governors on water issues. The dialogue is continuous and part of our regular operations. Here's the thing: The previous government made a targeted effort in which it committed to the country's county boards to prioritise precisely the supervision of hydropower higher. The effect of this was not entirely successful. That is why we agreed in the Energy Agreement to make a move and, among other things, to have another funding. For the bourgeois government did not give proper thought to how the measures would be financed. There we now have a common picture, namely that it will be financed by the industry, and the proposal that is being pointed out is a fund solution. The work to create such a fund solution is ongoing, while we are working on a bill. It will be presented before the summer. Before that happens, of course, I will not make any constitutional mistakes and give a mandate to stop ongoing state-of-the-art processes. That would be inappropriate and wrong of me.
