i-eb500ec4de200e18-3	Mr President, I would like to Allan Widman has asked Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist when, in accordance with Parliament's announcement, the Minister and the Government will take measures to ensure that medical, rescue and police personnel and others are given legal rights equivalent to those of military veterans. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The proposal to extend the concept of veteran to civilian personnel carrying out foreign service on behalf of the State, thereby broadening the scope of who may claim to receive support and care has been met by criticism from several relevant authorities. As the Government has previously reported in the budget proposal for 2017 and in the annual report for the Government's actions on submitted parliamentary letters, letter 2016/ 17:75, the Government considers that there is currently no reason to extend the term veteran in the way proposed in the Veteran investigation. I follow the question but do not see the need to take further action at this stage.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-6	Mr President, I would like to In recent years, however, it has become more widely known in our country what hardships military personnel on international efforts must endure. It may even be argued that veterans and military veterans have become a concept in our social debate as well. However, much less is said about civilian personnel who also serve in international operations – personnel who suffer the same wear and tear and the same physical and psychological risks as military personnel. I recall a conversation a few years ago with a number of nurses who had long cared for Ebolas disease patients in Liberia. After that conversation, it became clear to me that I might as well have listened to a soldier who had spent time in Afghanistan. We all remember the terrible fate that struck Zaida Catalán in Congo. We remember UN employee Joakim Dungel in Mazar-Mazar-i-SharifSharif in 2011, who was also the victim of an attack. They paid the ultimate price within the framework of their international service. Mr President, I would like to It is not a question, as the Minister for Home Affairs says, of broadening the concept of the veteran. Neither the law on military personnel in international operations nor the Veteran investigation's proposal on a civil servant's law mention is made at all the word. It is about military and civilian personnel who are in a similar working environment also feeling that they have the same rights, the right to the same support and the right to recognition and assistance in their duties. Now the Minister for the Interior says that the authorities have made criticisms of the Veteran investigation's proposal. I would like to point out that the investigation included experts from the Ministry of Social Affairs, Education and the Ministry of Justice. There were no differences of opinion whatsoever in the investigation. Although there had been a sharp criticism of the equivalence of working conditions for military and civilian officials internationally, it is nevertheless a fact that this Parliament has made an announcement which, in my opinion, the government has to follow. The Minister for the Interior refers to letter 75, which states that the Government has pointed out that there is no reason to take further action. In conclusion, I would like to remind the Minister for the Interior that, as recently as two weeks ago in his opinion to the Constitutional Committee on Letter 75, a united Committee on Defence stated that the government has not yet delivered its support to the civilian veterans. I hope, Mr President, that the government and the Minister for the Interior will reconsider their position.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-13	Mr President, I would like to First of all, let there be no doubt whatsoever about our support for the Swedes who are doing great work abroad, whether in military or civil form, as well as for those who are doing great work in the civil sector. One of the examples taken by Allan Widman himself concerned Swedish personnel abroad who are not covered by a public employment contract and are therefore not covered by the announcement that Allan Widman is talking about. Then it gets a little weird when Allan Widman tries to alienate himself from the concept of veterans. It's veterans that his interpellation is all about. The headline is just talking about civilian veterans. That is what is at the heart of it: Is it reasonable to have the same thing as the military veteran concept for everyone else who does international service? Many consultation bodies have concluded that the answer to that question is no. It is better for them to be protected, backed up and compensated on the basis of the tasks they have performed and not on the basis of the military veteran concept. If everyone from aid workers to tent depositors is to be covered by the veteran concept, there is also a risk of watering down the veteran concept. I'm not sure whether I myself or Allan Widman think it would be a good way to go.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-15	Mr President, I would like to Now the Home Secretary says that there is no doubt that we are backing our veterans. I have been following the veteran question in this House for ten years. I can see that every time we have voted – with one exception – the Social Democrats have voted against all proposals on veteran politics. However, the day before yesterday, with the support of the Social Democrats, there was a proposal that 29 May should become a public flag day. It is the only time that the Social Democrats, after a referral back to the Constitutional Committee, have said yes to a measure that strengthens the recognition of our veterans. In my opinion, there is still some doubt about the strength and commitment of the Social Democrats and the government to these issues. I would also like to reiterate that the legislative proposal submitted by the Veteran investigation does not contain the term veteran at all, just as little as the corresponding military law, which entered into force in 2011. My interpellation isn't about the veteran concept. It is about whether the government is prepared to take action to ensure that the same rights and the same right to assistance and support should exist for civilian veterans as for military veterans. So far, I understand that the Minister for the Interior is not prepared for this at all. However, the Minister for Home Affairs has a point in saying that if too many people are covered by the veteran concept, it will be inflated and less worthwhile. In principle, I share that view. That is why the Veteran investigation was extremely careful to define which civil servants in international service would benefit from the right to assistance and support. If the Minister of the Interior had taken note of the bill, he would have seen that it is a matter of situations and actions where conditions correspond to those applicable to military operations abroad. The investigation was well aware of the problem and made a demarcation so that the most vulnerable and the most vulnerable would be taken care of.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-20	Mr President, I would like to This discussion and debate are getting a little messy. Allan Widman says it's not about veterans, but he's putting an interpellation called, "Help and support for civilian veterans." Surely it is reasonable to imagine that the headline of Allan Widman's interpellation can provide some support and guidance on what the interpellation is all about. He says that it is very well defined in the investigation which are covered but then gives examples that he believes that it should be covered people who would then not be covered by the investigation's proposal or even by a state authority's responsibility. He's attacking the veteran politics of the Social Democrats. Surely everyone is free to make party politics out of whatever question they want. I leave it up to those who listen to this debate to decide whether veteran politics was more successful in the eight years that Allan Widman was responsible and Allan Widman's party was in government than it has been in the two and a half years that we have had a red-green government. At least I'm glad we've got a flag day.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-24	Mr President, I would like to It is good that the Minister for the Interior shares my appreciation of Parliament's decision on a general flag day on 29 May. However, the fact that the Social Democrats called for a referral back to the Constitutional Committee was an unnecessary round which, I believe, casts doubt on the attitude of veterans. I am probably the last, Mr President, to want to party-politicise veteran politics. I would have liked nothing more than for the Social Democrats, together with other parties in the Riksdag, to stand up for support and recognition to those men and women who put their own security at risk for others. However, I must note, Mr President, that in every vote that has taken place, the Social Democrats have said no, with flag day as the only exception. The Home Secretary is trying to send out fog curtains around what he calls the veteran concept. It is fortunate, Mr President, that when the ministers respond to interpellations, they have to reproduce exactly the question that has been put. The question I asked was: When will the government, in accordance with Parliament's announcement, adopt measures to allow medical, rescue and police personnel and others to have legal rights equivalent to those of military veterans? Nowhere in my question do I use the term civilian veterans. And, Mr President, if the Home Secretary had taken note of the draft law of the investigation, he would have quickly discovered that there is no veteran concept in the bill, just as little as in the military veteran law, which came into force a long time ago.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-28	Mr President, I would like to It is almost an entertainment value of this. Nowhere in the matter are veterans mentioned, says Allan Widman with an official voice. That, of course, is true. If I count correctly, the veteran concept is mentioned 13 times in two before the question, so it does not need to be mentioned in the question or suggested that the question is about it. The headline of the interpellation is: Help and support for civilian veterans. That if anything suggests well that it is precisely the veteran term Allan Widman is after. I do not want to make a big deal out of this. Let me just say: the government believes that both those who go out for military service, who are sent out from Sweden, and those who go out for civilian service are entitled to good support, good reception when they come home and good financial conditions. I understand that that is the main point both in the interpellation and in the announcement that exists from the Riksdag. In this spirit, the government will work forward and hopefully be able to do so in rather broad agreement.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-30	Mr President, I would like to Johan Forssell has asked me how I view announcements from the Riksdag and what measures I have taken to satisfy the Riksdag's announcements on a reinforced gender equality bonus and that the longer time limit in health insurance should remain. My view of announcements is consistent with that expressed, for example, in the reports of the Constitutional Committee, with statements on the handling of Parliament's letter to the Government and also reflected in the positions taken by the Fundamental Law investigation in the report A reformed Constitution (SOU 2008:125). There is a lack of explicit constitutional regulation of the form and meaning of announcements to the government. However, the scope for parliamentary statements in this form is limited in different ways, among other things by the regulations in the form of government that govern the independence of the authorities and the fact that it is the government that governs the kingdom. There is no constitutional obligation for the government to comply with an announcement. However, according to the practice developed, it is considered that the starting point is that the request to which the announcement relates should be met within the time limits specified by the Riksdag, where appropriate. If the Government does not share Parliament's opinion on a matter and does not intend to satisfy Parliament's wishes, the Government should inform the Riksdag accordingly. The reasons for the government's failure to comply with announcements should also be disclosed. I would like to start by pointing out that Parliament has already dealt with the handling of the announcement of a reinforced gender equality bonus in the framework of a constitutional committee review. The committee noted that the parliamentary situation was changed by the December agreement in such a way that there were conditions for the government to receive support in the Riksdag for its draft budgets. Against this background, the committee considered that the government's handling could be considered reasonable. The Government considers that decisive steps need to be taken to achieve a more equal use of parental benefit. At the government's initiative, the gender equality bonus has therefore been abolished, and a third reserved month has instead been introduced into parental insurance. An investigation is now looking at how insurance can be further modernised for a more equal withdrawal. Parliament has also taken a position on the abolition of the longer time limit in health insurance. The expiry date has been abolished since 1 February 2016 by the Parliament's decision of 9 December 2015 on the Act amending the Social Security Code. The measures taken by the previous government would have been inadequate. People were secured without the need for rehabilitation having been met. In addition, the lower time limit did not lead to a low sickness absence – on the contrary, sickness absence rose sharply from 2010 despite the deadline. Therefore, in the 2016 budget proposal, the government proposed to abolish the deadline. Instead, the government introduced in 2015 a broad action programme to break the sharp increase in sick leave. The programme has led to a break in the rise in sick leave. My assessment is that the target of a sickness benefit of no more than 9.0 days by 2020 can be reached. It is thus possible to combine safe and human health insurance with low and stable sick leave. This should be the main objective for all of us.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-35	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking the Government for its answer. There are not many Members in the Chamber today, but it is a pleasure that many people here are taking part in the debate. It is therefore a question of the announcements made by the Riksdag to the Government. Parliament then says: This is our opinion, and this should be done by the government. The government's mandate is based in this Parliament. The background is that in December 2014, the Riksdag approved the Alliance's joint budget motion for 2015, and it also included a couple of announcements. There have been more announcements in a wide range of areas, but today I am concentrating on those who are concerned precisely with the equality bonus in parental insurance and the abolition of the longer deadline. So this was the very express will of the Riksdag. Then there has been some water running under the bridges, and we are now standing here today in May 2017 and can conclude that the government has not implemented these two announcements. We will soon discuss this further, but it can be said that the government has not only ignored the implementation of the announcements, but has therefore put forward policies that go directly against these two announcements. I find this problematic, and therefore I have written this interpellation, which raises the question of how the government in general and the Minister for Social Security in particular view the decisions that have been taken in this House in democratic order. Is it something you need to be at all, or can you ignore them, to be clear? I believe that the situation we have now that the government has repeatedly ignored making proposals in accordance with what Parliament has said means a lack of respect for the Constitution. Even if a declaration is not formally legally binding, there is, of course, a very clear and firm constitutional practice for a long time that announcements should be met. Although I thank you for the answer, I still think that the answer shows an attitude from Annika Strandhäll that these announcements really don't matter at all but that you can do a lot of things as you want. But, as I said, there is constitutional practice. It cannot therefore be said that these announcements lack a legal framework. There is a framework in the form of practices that have been developed over many years. I therefore wonder whether the Minister for Social Security can tell us what importance she believes these announcements, which we have decided in good democratic order in this House, have. Now we have answers at a rather general level, but we are continuing to take decisions in this House, and we have a lot of case management ahead of us. After all, we make decisions in the Social Security Committee every week ahead, and the question is: if these decisions go against the government, does the government intend to implement them, or will it continue to show a rather lack of respect for the decisions we make?
i-eb500ec4de200e18-43	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my reply, the government has a great deal of respect for announcements from the Riksdag. However, there is no constitutional obligation for the government to comply with announcements. As Johan Forssell points out here, there is a practice that attempts are made to satisfy the Riksdag's announcements, but it is also clear that if the Government does not share the Riksdag's opinion on a matter and therefore does not intend to meet the Riksdag's wishes, it should inform the Riksdag about it. You should also give reasons why you have a different meaning and why you do not intend to follow the announcement. In both cases, Johan Forssell addresses the gender equality bonus and the time limit. In addition, the issue of the equality bonus has been examined by a constitutional committee, which concluded that the government's handling of the issue of the equality bonus in the light of the parliamentary situation that existed with the December agreement was entirely reasonable. With regard to the longer deadline, there was the announcement referred to here by Johan Forssell and a previous announcement on the question of the longer deadline, in which on 13 March 2013 a unanimous parliament stated that no one would be insured without the need for rehabilitation having been clarified, and the rehabilitation would then have been carried out well in advance of the later deadline. The government thus had to take into account more than one announcement in the case of the longer deadline. As I said, we have also clearly stated our position and thus, according to all the rules of art, kept us to these announcements in the manner intended.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-48	Mr President, I would like to We are talking here about two announcements that have been decided on in this House, on which the Parliament has asked the government to return with policy in accordance with it. Not only does the government ignore it, but it makes proposals that go directly against it. The equality bonus was abolished rather than strengthened, and the time limit for health insurance was also abolished. As I said, this is problematic from two points of view. First of all, we have it, perhaps, creasing the formal perspective, which is nevertheless very important in terms of where we are, that is, even if there is no obligation for the government to implement it, there is a firm constitutional practice that was also protected by the Social Democrats when they were in opposition, namely that announcements should be respected. In this context, I would like to say that it is nevertheless positive that the Government has returned to letter 75 and expressed its views on the matter. But that is not really the same as respecting the announcement, because then it should have been implemented. However, there are other examples where the government does not even care to answer or where it takes very many years to try to tell you how you view this, and it is good that this has not happened in these cases. Secondly, this is a problem politically. The gender equality bonus provided an opportunity for parents to share parental leave equally and get an economic carrot for it, which was a way to tackle a lack of equality in parental insurance without going in with touchsticks, coercion and legislation from the House right into the family kitchen table and saying what it should be like. Rather, it created the conditions for people to make their own decisions. Here it was that the Riksdag not only gave an announcement but also allocated funding. Yet the government chose to abolish it. So we have the longer time limit in health insurance, something that we will soon talk about in more detail. The government therefore chose to abolish it, and we are already seeing the consequence of this, namely that the number of people who have been on sick leave for a long time has increased very much and is also at risk of continuing to increase very much. Unfortunately, we do not know where that issue will go. It is also the case that this is a government that describes itself in all possible and impossible contexts as a government of cooperation. It was already clear in the Prime Minister's government statement: The government will cooperate with other parties and seek broad solutions. I think this is a good thing, but it is also a duty of words, and given that the government has ignored these announcements, one can think about where cooperation is on health insurance issues. When has the government cared about what Parliament has actually said on these issues? Of course, you can say that you may have different opinions about it. The point is, and I think most would agree, that it is rather strange to describe yourself as a cooperation government but still ignore what the other parties think, especially when it comes to the majority of the other parties. I find that a little strange. There was also good cooperation in the Parliamentary social security inquiry during the last parliamentary term, where the issues of health insurance were discussed both forward and backward for many years but where the government unfortunately chose to deal with several of the conclusions rather rigidly. This, of course, raises the question of whether the government even wants to cooperate with the opposition.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-59	Mr President, I would like to Let me make it clear once again that the government has not ignored the announcements. The government has handled the announcements according to how practices have developed. The government has returned to Parliament and explained why we do not intend to implement the proposal. One of the issues of the gender bonus has been dealt with in the Constitutional Committee, which concluded that the government's handling was entirely reasonable. Then there was the question of the second case, Johan Forssell. Now that we are talking about not ignoring announcements, it is also nice that this government has taken into account the unanimous announcement from the Riksdag that was made on 13 March 2013, when the Alliance Government ruled the country. It was an announcement that was obviously ignored by the alliance government but which, with the current government, has been dealt with. Let me get back to the issues. One of the reasons why the government chose to remove the gender equality bonus was that the reason it was introduced was to stimulate a more equal take-out of parental insurance. All evaluations by the expert authorities show that the gender equality bonus did not have any effect on the withdrawal of parental insurance. The effect was zero. To spend EUR 1 billion of taxpayers' money each year on a reform that has a zero impact on what it is intended for and even the idea of providing additional tax resources, the reform that the evaluations show does not work, is a very bad policy. The Government has also explained its reasoning to the Riksdag in that part. I look forward to our deepening on the question of the longer time limit in health insurance in the next interpellation debate. The reality is that between 2010 and 2014 sickness rates ran out during the bourgeois government while the later deadline was in place. What has now happened is that the increase in sickness rates in Sweden is still in place since May 2016, i.e. after the government chose to remove the lower time limit in health insurance. I also have good hopes that we will soon see declining sickness rates – this in a cyclical upturn, which is uniquely historic. This means that the policy pursued by the government, which is about combining safe and secure insurance with low and stable sick leave, seems to work. That should be what everyone thinks is important. I am not very much in favour of conducting bad policies and implementing reforms that do not work. Instead, I try to be pragmatic in the approach to the issues for which I am responsible. The important thing for me is to see results.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-64	Mr President, I would like to The recurring problem is that the government and the Minister for Social Security say one thing but then do something completely different. The Prime Minister says you're a government of cooperation. It is a cooperation government that ignores the views of Parliament. The Social Security Minister just said she's trying to be pragmatic. That is great, but yet the Government has ignored what a majority of Members of this House actually think. The Minister has given an explanation, but she has, in fact, failed to implement the policy that Parliament very explicitly requests. We're going to talk about health insurance soon. Evaluations of the gender bonus showed that one problem was that the reform was not sufficiently known and that the economic carrot was too small. That is why the House decided to allocate funding to increase the bonus. Many had hopes that things would improve. There are many of us who have the idea that politics should not regulate people's everyday lives in detail. It is better to give carrots to people to make their own decisions instead of different politicians deciding in detail how to handle their everyday lives. Let's sum up. I think it is very good that the government is talking about cooperation. I welcome the fact that the Minister for Social Security claims to be pragmatic, but I wonder where this has gone in reality.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-67	Mr President, I would like to The government has handled these announcements in accordance with existing practice. We have explained to the Riksdag our divergent assessments and why we have chosen to do them. This has also been tested by both the Constitutional Committee and the Riksdag and has not led to any further criticism. As we are about to discuss health insurance, let me say a few more words about the gender equality bonus. In fact, financial incentives do not have the effect that Johan Forssell is looking for. This is also shown by several studies. A study from Försäkringskassan shows that, regardless of whether the mother or the father has the highest income, the woman averages over 80 per cent of the parental allowance. This indicates that, to a large extent, it is not the economy that is hindering a level playing field, but that it is other factors such as gender, parental relationships, norms and traditional gender roles. Johan Forssell refers to evaluations. They show that of the parents who actually knew about the gender equality bonus, three-quarters replied that the bonus had not affected them to distribute parental benefit more equally between them. The Social Security Inspection has also examined how the bonus has affected the distribution of parental benefit by parents and has not found any statistically significant effects. We have to say that the gender equality bonus was not the best reform to tackle the problems, but the government has introduced a third weight month in parental insurance. We know from the past that it is the only previous reform that has actually had an effect on a more equal set-aside.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-71	Mr President, I would like to Johan For s sell has asked me what circumstances and facts were behind the abolition of the longer deadline and in what way I took into account the warnings of the expert authorities in this matter. He also asks what measures I intend to take to mitigate the effects of the cut-off date. The Government has explained its motives in the 2016 budget bill. The government believes that health insurance should be safe. People shall be entitled to benefits from sickness insurance as long as they cannot work because of illness. Labour market policy should not be used as an alternative health insurance, as was the case on more than 130 000 occasions when people were insured. It goes without saying that if a limit is set for how long a sick case may last, the registration of these sick cases ends as long. What Johan For s sell does not mention is that 80 – 90 percent of those who were insured returned to Försäkringskassan. During the more than six years that the time limit seemed, about 15 000 individuals were performed on two occasions. C a 1 000 people were insured a third time and were on their way to their fourth insurance policy. Each time a person returned after insurance, the case was recorded as a new illness. In the meantime, the lower time limit seemed to have increased the sickness benefit rate by 4.8 days or more than 80 per cent. Since the removal of the deadline, the increase is 0.2 days, and the sickness benefit rate is likely to decrease soon – this while the new grant of sickness benefits is very low. I find it difficult to see any positive effects of the longer deadline. The levelling out of sick leave is a result of the government's broad action programme for improved health and reduced sick leave. The programme is dynamic and new measures are included in the programme. I am open to discussing measures to help those who have been on sick leave for a very long time back to work. It must, however, be about measures that involve change for individuals and not just a trixing with figures.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-77	Mr President, I would like to I should also like to thank you for your answer to this interpellation, which concerns the increase in sick leave in Sweden. It is the case, as I think is well known, that the cost has increased sharply in recent years. The cost or appropriation of sickness benefit and rehabilitation amounts to 42 billion this year. This compares with 2010, when the cost was SEK 20.5 billion. So this is a sharp increase. At the same time, it should be said that in 2010, the situation was very positive in the sense that sick leave had decreased for a long number of years, not least because of the rehabilitation chain carried out by the then alliance government – under the great criticism of the then Social Democratic opposition. Since the turn of the government in 2014, the government has actually done what it has said. This is in its own way positive in the light of the previous debate, in which the Minister for Social Security, as it were, ignored Parliament's announcements. The problem for Sweden here is that it implements the wrong policy. The time limit has been removed. Sweden is now, I know, the only country in the world where there is no limit to how long you can be on sick leave. Here, too, there was a majority against the government and wanted to keep the deadline, but the cooperation government ignored it. The government has also put forward some other proposals that have been strange. I am thinking, for example, of the proposal to increase the co-financing of health insurance. This would have been a heavy burden for the smaller companies in particular. But there the criticism became so severe, even when it came from LO, that the government withdrew the proposal. Unfortunately, we are now seeing the effect of the abolition. I'm saying, unfortunately, because it's not funny to have your fears confirmed. This is about people who are in a health insurance system that should help them get back to work and ensure the work capacity that exists. The effect is that the group that has been on sick leave for more than 914 days is now increasing by approximately 1,000 people a month. It has increased from a few hundred to up to 16 000 people. The question is not only where we are now, but where we will be in the future in view of this very steep increase in the long absence of sickness. I find this regrettable for a number of reasons. Like I said, this is about people. I believe, and we do know from research, that sick leave in itself often has a negative impact on people. The possibility of returning to work when you have been on sick leave for a long time is far too small. At the same time, we know that health insurance is also about making use of the work capacity that exists, and the work capacity is not digital. It does not go from 100 to zero, but often you can have work capacity in some parts. You may not be able to do the work you have done before, but you can do something else. That is why we have pointed out the importance of having deadlines, controls and regular trials. But it is not in place, but the government has abolished the longer deadline. You now have the help of an economy that is doing very well. At the same time, this particular group is increasing, and it is increasing very strongly. I think that raises more concern, at least in my mind, than the Minister for Social Security expresses.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-87	Mr President, I would like to This interpellation debate may seem a little strange, Johan Forssell, given that in the last four years with the alliance government we saw an increase in sickness rates of 55 percent. It is an increase that this government, with the policy we are pursuing after having removed the longer deadline, has now broken. Sickness rates are not increasing since May 2016 but are still, and we have very good indications that sickness rates will also fold and that the Government's target of a sickness benefit of 9.0 by 2020 will be achieved. That is what should reasonably be the goal regardless of which political party you belong to: having a low and stable sick leave, taking advantage of people's work capacity and ensuring that more people have the opportunity to return to work and that fewer people are at risk of sick leave or get sick leave. That should be a common objective, and that is exactly what is happening now. The increase in the long cases of illness that we are now seeing is due to the fact that the cases of illness revolved around in insurance and were not made visible over the years with bourgeois government. They are now becoming visible, which means that we actually see that these are long cases of illness and thus can take steps to help these people back to health and work. It is therefore a rather strange interpellation debate, this one, which talks about a mechanical part of health insurance which in fact did not have the effect that was intended. It did not help more people back to health and work. It made them spin around in the insurance. It meant that the long cases of illness were not made visible but were registered as new cases of illness when they came in. Now we see that we have really broken this. Johan Forssell says that we have the help of the good economy. Then I must point out that in Sweden it has historically been the case that when we have had a cyclical upsurge, the sickness rates have increased. What is happening right now therefore also breaks a trend that we have had for several decades. That should make us all happy, for no matter which government is sitting, no government thinks it is a simple position to sit in government positions with sickness rates increasing.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-93	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Social Security thinks it's a strange interpellation debate, this. I shall then again explain why I think this is important. We now have a situation in which the long illness is increasing dramatically. It is not just about the level at which we are now, but the question is where we will be in the future. It is therefore a case of illness where you have been on sick leave for 914 days. It is perhaps rather the closest satisfaction expressed by the Minister for Social Security, at least in my view, that seems strange when it comes to so many people who have been on sick leave for so long and we know that the government has not taken the necessary steps to look at the work capacity that exists in many cases. We also know that from research. So one can really wonder who is going to talk about strange things here. Annika Strandhäll has said in an interview that this increase is very good. For me, it's not okay that the long absence from work increases so much. In this respect, we Moderates have pointed out a wide range of proposals, in particular the reintroduction of the longer deadline. I would like to repeat that I know – please disprove me, but that is the information I have been able to take part of – Sweden is the only country in the world where there is no limit at all to how long you can be on sick leave. We know that sick leave in itself often has a negative impact on health. The longer you are on sick leave, the harder it will often be to return to the labour market. That is why early trials at 90 and 180 days are important, but also not to stop there, for this may vary. We have said that the ability to work should be tested for longer than that. The question on which this discussion is concerned is, of course, what will be better for those people who end up in sick leave who, without control posts, can go over three years, five years, ten years. Of course, if you are seriously ill, you should be on sick leave. That is why the former alliance government already had exceptions. But I'm talking about just having these long, passive sick leave where no one asks, "Can you work with anything else?" You may not be able to do what you did earlier, but maybe there are other types of work you can do? I find it hard to see how it makes something better. We should not talk too much history, but I think many people still remember how the then Social Democratic government finally chose to deal with these issues when sick leave increased at most last time. It was through early retirement. They retired 140 people every day, not only those who have been in health insurance for a long time, but unfortunately also those who have been there for shorter periods. Now the government is saying that it should not be handled in the same way this time. That is certainly a good thing, but I ask myself: what is the practical difference between being on sick leave three, seven, ten, fifteen or twenty years and being on early retirement? What's the difference, Minister of Social Security?
i-eb500ec4de200e18-101	Mr President, I would like to Johan Forssell! It sounds to you like the government is not taking any action at all. Again: The reason for the increase in long-term illness is that we now see the sickness cases spinning around in health insurance during the period of power of the alliance government. It was people who had been insured three times, people who had been ill for over five years but who came in as new cases of illness because of the longer deadline. This does not make people visible, and a good policy cannot be pursued to help them return to the labour market. What is also relevant is that, within the framework of the action programmes that we presented almost two years ago, the government has provided funds and given special missions to work on the long illness cases, for example to the coordination associations. It is often people who have a complex problem where efforts need to be coordinated from different parts of society. The government has provided funds for this, and work on it is ongoing. We are willing, preferably in dialogue with other parties in the Swedish Parliament, to discuss further measures that it believes could help to support those people who are now on long-term sick leave further. We see, as I said, that sick leave is still there. The new sickness cases are decreasing, as are the illness cases which are less than a year, which means that we hope to see fewer people landing in health insurance with the declining sickness rates. However, if you have a condition that requires sick leave, you should be able to feel safe and be on sick leave within the framework of health insurance. I have a few questions, Johan Forssell. You say the early trials are important. Yeah, so do I. The Government has therefore provided funds to Försäkringskassan to improve the handling and proportion of trials at the 90- and 180-day limits. This has also been the case since the government took office. During a period between 2010 and 2014, when Ulf Kristersson was Minister of Social Security, it was not only that more than 100,000 people were insured, the costs rose and the sickness cases increased, but the trials at 90- and 180-day limits also fell by almost 50 per cent. I have a few questions for you, Johan Forssell: What did the then Social Security Minister do to reverse developments? Was it not the case that the then government neglected to ensure that the other trials worked but relied on a more mechanical deadline? I think it is extremely important that we really talk about these issues. I cannot even remember how many debates we have been talking about the more mechanical deadline in health insurance, which is at the far end of a case of illness. I share Johan Forssell's entry that it is actually before the 90-day limit that things have to happen. The government's entire policy is therefore to strengthen preventive work, ensure that people quickly receive a plan for rehabilitation and return to work, and ensure that the interaction between the various actors in cases of illness works better so that people who go into longer sick leave receive more trials at 90- and 180-day limits, more get their work capacity tested and get back to work, and that the rate of increase in sickness rates thereby stops.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-111	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that the sickness rates are about to level out. I understand that the Minister for Social Security would like to take full credit for it. But to be careful, the question is: what would have been the situation if the government had not taken the measures it has taken if it had not removed the time limit, for example? I think the development would have been better. I do not know if the government agrees, but research clearly shows that norms and values, for example, have a very important effect, not only in Swedish health insurance but in Europe as a whole. It is therefore problematic that the government is now carrying out a reform in which Sweden seems to be the only country in the world where there is no limit to how long you can be on sick leave. It is clear that such things affect. We're gonna take some history, too. Under the alliance government, you could get back into health insurance after a trial was made at Arbetsförmedlingen, and I think that is quite reasonable. But not everyone did. It was a good thing in its own way, for this – that people did not come back – showed that they had had their work capacity satisfied. Then the system works as it is intended, namely that a trial is carried out all the time. You do not hide and forget people in the system, but you constantly try to find out if there is any work capacity left. Annika Strandhäll says that people are now visible instead. But what does it mean to make visible? Is it through the long sick leave that can now run for just so long, or is it to continually ask these questions: What does the work capacity look like? What are the other types of work you can do? How can we make sure that you work, perhaps not 100 percent but 50 or 25, to make use of the ability that exists? The answer to the question is that I believe that even more could have been done under the alliance government, not least when it comes to the trials at 90 or 180 days. But, Annika Strandhäll, when did the Social Democrats protest that we were too lax in health insurance during that term of office? When did that happen?
i-eb500ec4de200e18-116	Mr President, I would like to It is striking that Johan Forssell actually stands here and says that the development would have been better if we had not done anything to reduce sickness rates but only relied on a more mechanical deadline and on falling trials at the 90- and 180-day limits. This is what we have turned around. The fact is – it is not possible to get away from – that after we removed the lower deadline and with the action programme that the government has implemented since we entered the government position, the sickness rates have remained stable since May 2016. All the forecasts indicate that we will soon see a decline in the trend, a reduction in the incidence of illness and a decrease in inflow into insurance. These are the facts. More people get back to work, and more people get their skills tested. That is very pleasing. It is clear that if you are dealing with numbers and entering people as new cases of illness, you do not see that it is basically a very long case of illness with a complex problem that requires special efforts, such as those that the government is now taking through its action programme and through the additional resource reinforcements to the coordination associations. These mean that each individual can have a plan for his/her ability and hopefully eventually return to the labour market again. Johan Forssell knows that when it comes to early retirement or sickness benefit, we are also 10 000 below on an annual basis compared to the maximum ceiling set by the government.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-120	Mr President, I would like to Per Klarberg has asked me whether I will call the railway operators and the Swedish Transport Agency to a meeting, as I did with vehicle manufacturers and hauliers, to investigate what is needed to prevent train cuts. Let me first state that there is no need for such a meeting. This is because work on identifying and preventing the risks of terrorist acts against the rail sector is already under way, both at EU level and at home. I meet regularly with representatives of both the transport authorities and the railway industry in the framework of an information and discussion forum called the Executive Railways Group. Issues related to security, security and preparedness management have been discussed in this forum. As an outflow of these discussions, the industry has started a special working group earlier this year, including representatives of the Swedish Transport Agency, the Finnish Transport Agency and the Swedish Police Authority. An important part of this group's work is to systematically identify and assess the risks of terrorist acts against the railway sector and to list and design methods for how these risks can best be managed. I am counting on the results of this work gradually and in consultation with the Police Authority and the Swedish Transport Agency to be translated into concrete measures by the industry's actors themselves, or, if necessary, to be notified to the Government Office when measures by the Government and the Riksdag are deemed necessary. Within the EU, the Commission and its specially established Expert Group on Landsec have for some years been studying whether action at EU level can provide added value in preventing and hindering acts of terrorism targeting the land transport sectors. Part of this important work is to identify, with a focus on measures that can be taken in the land transport sectors, any action at EU level that can be assessed as cost-effective, proportionate and consistent with the principle of subsidiarity. For this purpose, the Commission commissioned a specific railway consultancy study last year. The study resulted in a report delivered to the Commission and also discussed within Landsec. It is now up to the Commission, on the basis of existing evidence, to come up with any proposals on cost-effective, proportionate and subsidiarity compatible measures at EU level aimed at increasing protection against acts of terrorism in the rail sector.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-127	Mr President, I would like to There is a great deal of concern about me and my fellow train drivers, a concern that has actually existed since 11 September 2001. But it has become even more tangible since the terrorist attack in Stockholm on 7 April. After every act of terror, society is doing everything possible to prevent the next, while terrorists are looking for new mass murder techniques. Society is always one step behind. These range from aircraft used as missiles to trucks used as weapons. What's the next thing? Probably it's gonna be a train hijacking. To hijack aircraft was a known terror technique used by terrorist organizations in the 1960s and onwards. Passengers were held hostage in order to obtain political concessions. But no one, except the Al-Qaeda terrorists who planned the September 11th attacks, had thought that one could use full-blown aircraft as bombs. No one thought anyone was prepared to commit suicide by flying a plane into a building. The method did not exist in the imaginations of the responsible decision-makers. This lack of imagination led to 3 000 deaths that day. After that, the question has been what would be the next grip of terrorists. Last in the line are trucks like murder weapons. It started already in 2014 in Canada and in France, where passenger cars were used to drive as many people to death as possible. The attack in Nice last summer was the first when a terrorist with a truck managed to kill a lot of people. 86 people lost their lives and 434 were injured. In the past, trucks filled with explosives have been used in various terrorist attacks. Yet it has taken time for society to get an eye on this unstoppable method. The security unit has been significant since the Nice attack. After the September 11 attacks, a series of new safety rules were introduced for air traffic in order to avoid new acts of the same nature. As far as trucks are concerned, things are slowing down. But after the deeds in Nice, Berlin, London and most recently in Stockholm, the Government acted. On the government's website it was stated that Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson invites to a meeting on 13 April to prevent trucks and other vehicles from being used in terrorist attacks. Soon the terrorists will try to find a new method, something that no one has thought of before. It is about using something that already exists and turning it into a deadly weapon. Unfortunately, there are people who spend all their waking time thinking about new terrorist techniques, and they are far more inventive than the people in society who are set to protect us citizens. Why does it seem almost impossible to act before the disaster is a fact? The Government called a meeting on 13 April to discuss with the industry how to prevent trucks and other vehicles from being used in terrorist attacks. When I put the question to the Government whether she will call railway operators to a similar meeting, she answers: ..................................................... Does the Government really have any idea – now answer honestly – how easy it is to hijack a train, shut down all the security systems and cause a disaster?
i-eb500ec4de200e18-140	Mr President, I would like to Trying to defend oneself in an open society against various forms of terrorism is difficult, for the simple reason that it is almost impossible to grasp all possible ways that a dedicated terrorist might use to cause harm and, above all, spread fear, which is the primary aim of terrorism. I think we're doing a lot. I agree with Per Klarberg that there has been a certain light-headedness unit. It is not least about how we can protect our systems against misinformation, against the dissemination of false data and against hacking, which in a highly digitalised society can of course cause very great harm. But it is also a question of trying to identify risks in the physical and public environment. There, I dare say, there is work going on in many companies and authorities today. Per Klarberg chose only to quote a loose sentence. However, it is very clear from the reply that the reason why such a meeting with rail operators is not necessary is that regular meetings have already been taking place for a long time. There's a focus area just security. In the past they may have had more focus on safety issues, i.e. road safety and how to fence in to avoid injuries to people who are in the track area – this of course causes serious personal injuries, not infrequently suicide – but also how to protect those who work on the tracks and much more on this theme. Recently, however, security issues, how to protect oneself from external damage or threats, have actually increased. There is today a working group in which several actors in the railway industry work both to identify risks and to identify measures to minimise these risks. Such work is also under way at EU level. I might as well have replied that such a meeting has already taken place. But there is no need to call railway operators to a special meeting on the basis of this particular question, because it is a recurring theme of the meetings that are taking place. There is no such established forum in the field of road transport. I therefore took the view that such a meeting was necessary in order to look at the measures that various actors can take to make it more difficult for similar events at a later date. In the field of rail, this work is already under way. I think that's good. It's necessary. We need to stay one step ahead. I would argue that in this area we have already drawn attention to the risk, in fact also on the basis that events have taken place. Trains have not been hijacked, but action has been taken against train stations and against individual trains in other countries. That is why this issue has also been at European level on a number of occasions. Although, of course, I can never guarantee that all measures have been taken to make an attack impossible, I dare say that the meetings that need to take place between the political level, the authorities and the actors are already being held.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-148	Mr President, I would like to As I said before, this concern that something is going to happen has been with us train drivers since 2001. We have talked between colleagues about how easy it really is to get into the train driver while travelling. When I was elected to Parliament in 2014, I thought it was an excellent opportunity to influence. So I wrote a motion to strengthen the intrusion protection into the driver's cab while travelling. This exercise was discussed in the Transport Committee in spring 2015. Before that I had been out on Hagalund and photographed an X 2000 train, and I described the whole course of events for how a terrorist can proceed on a train at full speed. In fact, it takes less than ten seconds to turn an X-2000 train into a rushing missile. I can tell the Government that my presentation was 16 Members who looked like they had just seen a ghost. I even think some of them cancelled their train tickets that week. The day after we dealt with this in the Transport Committee, I received a call from SJ AB's head of security. He wanted to see me after hearing about the presentation. I met with SJ AB's head of security and made the same presentation to him, and he admitted – in himself with the excuse that he was quite new to SJ and in the industry – that SJ's top management had not thought about this scenario. Two years later, on 7 March 2017, SJ AB introduced a reinforced shell protection for its traffic management here in Stockholm. Traffic management is concerned with the distribution of trains, wagons and staff. It was considered very important that no one could get into the traffic management system, i.e. in principle the allocation of staff. It has been two years since I met the head of SJ's security and told him how easy it is to get into the train driver on the road, and nothing has happened. The Government may remember that I raised a written question on 6 November 2015. I asked whether the government had begun work on increased rail safety and what adequate measures had been implemented in that case, and whether the work to ensure that unauthorised persons could not enter the train driver during the journey had begun. The answer given to me by the Government then was that, when it comes to the question of working to ensure that unauthorised persons are not able to enter the train driver while travelling, this is primarily a task for the railway undertakings themselves. ..................................................... With this reasoning, Mr President, truck creations would then be a matter for the haulage companies themselves. Yet the Government called a meeting with the haulage companies to prevent lorries from being used in acts of terror. My question is, then, once again: why is the Government so reluctant to ensure that no one can get into the train driver on the road? After all, it is about installing the same kind of safety doors that exist in aircraft. These are safety doors that are available on the market today and which allow the driver in his cab to de facto prevent unauthorised persons from entering him during the journey.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-155	Mr President, I would like to In the same way as the safety of each railway undertaking has the ultimate responsibility for ensuring safety, it is of course the case in the haulage industry as well. Unlike in the haulage industry, there is a forum in the railway industry where authorities as well as operators, contractors and vehicle manufacturers meet regularly and discuss, among other things, safety issues. That is why I replied to Per Klarberg in my interpellation response that such a meeting is not necessary. The meeting we had was not just with the haulage industry, it was a rather broad-based meeting with vehicle manufacturers, municipalities and authorities, in addition to transport companies. It is also about bus companies and others. There I made it clear that I do not believe that it is primarily new legislation that is needed, but an increased awareness and a greater understanding of the need for action. That is my view for the time being. On the other hand, as I also mentioned in the interpellation response, there is work going on at European level where, among other things, access to the cab in locomotives is an issue under consideration. The issue is high on the agenda, and I can assure Per Klarberg that it will continue to be high on the agenda. This means that the answer to the question that Per Klarberg actually asks in his interpellation, i.e. whether there are plans to convene a special meeting, is no. For we already have such meetings – not once or twice, but with regularity.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-158	Mr President, I would like to Obviously, the meetings have not resulted in any kind of safety improvement to prevent people from entering the train driver on the way, Minister Anna Johansson. I have probably driven most types of trains available in Sweden today. For example, you can look at SJ's X 40, i.e. the double tires, where you can get into the train drivers while travelling through a misdirected kick. In my last job I was employed on the Öresund train and drove the X 31s there. They have thin cardboard doors that protect the driver from other travelers and possible terrorists. These are cardboard doors that you really just need to put your nails in to get into the driver's cab. Me and the Government met on X 2000 a few months ago; we went the same train from Gothenburg to Stockholm and saw each other. X 2000 is a train consisting of a locomotive and a control wagon. Drive the train one way, the locomotive pulls the train, and drives it the other way, the locomotive shoots the train. In the control car the driver sits and drives in his own driver's cab. When you arrive at the driver's cab in the control car there is a large sign where it says This means that anyone can get into the driver while driving at full speed by removing a small plastic cover, pulling a small handle and opening the door. Once inside the engine driver's space you can with very little knowledge knock out all the safety systems and cause a disaster that makes everything else in Sweden fade. The Government said in a SVT report a few years ago, when it was about cracks in the rails, that it is safe to ride trains today. No, Minister Anna Johansson – it is not safe to travel by train in Sweden today.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-163	Mr President, I would like to Well, Per Klarberg – it is safe to travel by train in Sweden today. I think it is an important issue that is addressed in this interpellation, and I think it is an extremely important piece of work that is now going on in the railway industry. I also think it is extremely positive that the railway industry itself has formed itself in a working group focusing on security issues. I assume that this work will result in an improvement in both insight and concrete action. What Per Klarberg asked about in his interpellation was whether there was a need for a meeting, and I maintain that such a meeting would not add anything to the substance because there is already work in progress. On the other hand, it is of course important to take the step from setting up a working group to taking effective action, and therefore, of course, I will continue to follow the issue and have a close dialogue with operators and others – just as we have had so far. This is an issue which is high on the agenda and which must continue to be high on the agenda. To argue that it is not safe to travel by train in Sweden, however, I would say is to drag it quite far.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-167	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm has asked me what further steps I intend to take to achieve all the environmental objectives, including the generational objective. The government has, as Jens Holm mentions, made a historic investment in climate and nature conservation. Initiatives have been taken at all levels of society, and new instruments are in place. That's a good thing. At the same time, there is a great need for further measures to change society and meet environmental objectives. The government wants to speed up implementation. It often takes a long time from taking action to measuring the impact on the environment. Therefore, we cannot yet see the full impact of government policy on our nature and climate. As Jens Holm mentions, there are several positive trends to observe, not least for the environmental quality goals of Frisk Air and Just Natural Acidification. I would like to highlight some of the efforts made by the government to achieve environmental objectives. Climate is a priority for the government. A proposal for a climate policy framework has been submitted to the Riksdag. It proposes new objectives, a climate law and the establishment of a Climate Policy Council. Through the Fossil free Sweden initiative, the Government has created a platform for dialogue and cooperation to facilitate the implementation of climate action by industry, municipalities, regions and organisations. Since 2015, SEK 1.3 billion has been distributed in support of local climate investments. Up to 2020, an additional 700 million per year will be allocated to the Government's Climate Action initiative. In the spring change budget, the government proposes to invest another 500 million in 2017. The government has also produced two important proposals to reach the target of a 70% reduction in emissions from domestic transport by 2030: the change of fuel and bonus – the malus for light vehicles. The proposals are now for a referral. To promote sustainable urban environments, the Government offers government co-financing to municipalities and county councils for local and regional investments in public transport and in bicycle infrastructure, so-called urban environment agreements. The Government's investment in urban environment agreements amounts to SEK 750 million this year and for 2018 to SEK 1 billion. The Government is actively working to ensure that we take steps towards a circular and bio-based economy, including in a collaborative programme. The government has also taken measures to increase reuse, including reduced VAT on repairs of bicycles, shoes, leather goods and clothing, and introduced a tax reduction for the repair of white goods. Non-toxic cycles and a non-toxic everyday life are promoted through a wide range of instruments and initiatives, including chemicals tax, identification of dangerous substances and support for substitution. Major efforts have been made for the protection and management of a valuable nature. The Government has increased the funding from approximately SEK 1.4 billion in 2014 to around SEK 2.3 billion from 2016 onwards. It is a clear increase in ambition which also creates jobs, not least in rural areas. The number of decisions on nature reserves increased from 153 decisions in 2015 to 272 in 2016. In December 2016, Sweden reached the area target of protecting 10 per cent of Swedish sea areas by 2020. At the same time, it is clear that much work remains to be done. The government will continue to integrate climate and environment into other policy areas and work towards more necessary measures being taken so that we together take steps to achieve environmental objectives.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-178	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for the answer to my interpellation. I think this is an important issue. After all, we have 16 environmental quality objectives and an overall generational goal, which is that the major environmental issues should be resolved when we hand over the world to future generations. Nor should we export our environmental problems to other countries. The environmental objectives concern extremely important issues such as living forests, the absence of eutrophication, a non-toxic environment, rich plant and animal life and limited climate impact. At best, we reach 2 of these 16 environmental targets, according to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's latest inventory. I think it is the right approach that all environmental objectives must be achieved, and the government has made many good and important efforts, for example in its budget. All the things that the Environment Minister listed are those that we in the Left Party fully support. So steps are being taken in the right direction, but unfortunately this is not enough, and I want this debate to be about it. In the past, I have raised the issue of the inventory of key biotopes. The idea was that today we would have a debate on the halt to the inventory of key biotopes in the forest. A key biotope is an area of very valuable nature. This work has now been discontinued by the Swedish Forest Agency, which I think is a blow to, for example, the environmental objective of Living Forests. The Minister for the Environment said that she and I would have that debate here and now in this House. Two days ago, however, I was informed that the Minister for the Environment had cancelled the debate, which is now to take place on 30 May, if I have understood correctly. Mr President, I would like to I turned in my interpellation on March 13th. I think it is under any criticism that it takes over two months before we can have a debate on this important subject. I'd like to hear from the Minister for the Environment why it's taking so long. And is it not the case that important key biotopes should be surveyed and registered in Sweden? Registration of them does not take place now, although the Swedish Forest Agency has made a new proposal. I would like an answer to that question. As far as the environmental objective of living forests is concerned, there is much more that could be done. It's good that we protect more forest now – it's fantastic with 276 nature reserves. But more resources are needed for protection. One way in which this could be done is by introducing a final felling levy – a small fee that can finance the construction and development of new protected areas. This would be a so-called conservation fee. I wonder if the government is interested in introducing one. That would be a concrete way of financing increased protection. As far as forests are concerned, I also find it odd that we do not have any penalties for those who violate the Forest Protection Act. Is the Minister prepared to impose fines on those who violate the Forest Protection Act? Finally, I would like to say a few words about the important environmental objective of the Sea in balance. We have a number of marine nature reserves, and in most of them you get the bottom trawl. Should we not be able to impose a ban on bottom trawling, Karolina Skog, at least in the marine reserves?
i-eb500ec4de200e18-190	Mr President, I would like to I will begin by commenting on the question of the second interpellation and on the debate that we have postponed. What happened close to this debate was that the Swedish Forest Board made a decision that partially amended the previous decision. As a basis for this, we only had a short press release. I and the Minister for Rural Development therefore called the Director-General to us the day before yesterday for information on the latest decision. I have not had time to prepare the debate since then. I saw it as urgent that we debate on the basis of the last decision, so that we do not have to be uncertain about what is happening in the debate. I look forward to having that debate at a later date. In order to protect our forests, among other things, we need two parts. The first part is that we need to protect forests. In this part there is an extremely intensive work going on where more forest is protected. The second part is that we take care of the forest that is better protected, both for nature's own sake and so that it becomes accessible to people to be in. We also need sustainable forestry. In order to shape this, there is now a collaborative effort to gather different stakeholders around a new forestry policy for the future. This forestry policy should take into account both the bioeconomy and nature conservation as well as the technological development of forestry. Mr Holm wanted this discussion to be about the future. When I examine the opposition's budgets, which have been presented in recent days, I note that I believe that the most important thing for us to have any chance of achieving environmental objectives in Sweden is that it is also the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party that together formulate the budget that is decided in this House. We need this in order to have an active environmental policy, which is gradually moving towards environmental objectives. If we were to work on the basis of the budgets presented by the opposition, a change in that part would be about stopping much of the ongoing work and backing some of the important processes that are going on. It is incredibly important that we have a long-term policy that works towards the goals and does not use the environmental objectives as some form of fernissa but takes them in the deepest seriousness. I believe that the government does, and that is also an important basis for our cooperation with the Left Party. In the future, the need is very much about integrating environmental work into all policy areas. An important part of this is the work of the Environmental Goal Council, where we have gathered a large group of Directors-General who together look at what each authority needs to do separately and in collaboration for their regular activities to be used to achieve environmental goals. There's the great power. The money that is available in our agencies now and all the instruments that exist need to be screwed gradually, so that we get a transformation of society that is adapted to environmental objectives. In addition, we will continue to have to make new investments and find new instruments. The work of the Environmental Objectives Committee is an important basis and basis for my work. It has identified the need for new instruments, and I very much hope that the consensus that existed in the Environmental Objectives Committee can also exist when it comes to sharp decisions on what instruments we should have and how they should be designed.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-201	Mr President, I would like to It is good that the Minister for the Environment is talking about new instruments, because that is really what is needed. We can't sit with our arms crossed, settle down and think it's good as it is. The Minister has less than two years left as Minister, for what happens after the elections, as we know, we do not know. That is why I think it is urgent. I mentioned a number of concrete proposals to which I would like answers. Now we know that the debate on key biotopes will come later, so we will take it then. However, a conservation fee on fellings, which would directly finance increased forest protection, is a concrete example. A sanction fee for those who violate the Forest Protection Act is another. What other activity allows industry and practitioners to commit crimes and make mistakes without sanctions? But this is actually the case in forestry, although most forest owners and users of course do not break laws. But here I think we need a tightening up. I could make another suggestion, and this concerns lead ammunition in hunting in Sweden. There was a new report from Swedish researchers pointing to the fact that golden eagles have large amounts of lead in them, and they have received this because they often eat intestines and carcasses, animals that have been shot in hunting in Sweden. The animals have been shot with lead bullets, and the lead spreads in our forests and soils. I asked you, Karolina Skog, if it were not time to introduce a ban on lead ammunition, but I did not get a sensible answer, I think. A ban on lead ammunition would mean concrete steps towards solving more environmental goals that we do not achieve today, such as a non-toxic environment, Living forests, Great mountain environment and A rich plant and animal life. Is the Minister prepared to put forward a concrete proposal to ban lead ammunition? I also raised the issue of bottom trawling and in particular in nature reserves. It can't be that we allow it in our marine reserves, Karolina Skog? To conclude, Mr President, I do not believe that we will be able to solve the major challenges, and especially the so-called generational objective, if we do nothing about our consumption. After all, we are setting targets for emissions in all other areas. But meat that we consume can be produced in Brazil, and cars, mobile phones etcetera that we consume at increasing speeds in Sweden and the West is produced in China and India, and emissions occur there. There are no instruments at all to deal with it. There are no concrete measurable targets to be followed up for consumption-related emissions. Yet we know that these emissions are at least as large as the emissions that occur here and now in Sweden. The Minister mentioned the Environmental Target Committee, where I was the representative of the Left Party. As far as consumption-based emissions are concerned, we said that every government is free to put forward concrete targets for the area, but the government has not yet put forward such a thing. I would like to know whether the government will present a concrete target for consumption-based greenhouse gas emissions and how they can be reduced.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-208	Mr President, I would like to I stated in my previous speech that the most important thing for us to have continued environmental work is that we have above all a budget base in Parliament with the real ambition that we should have concrete and ongoing environmental work, and Jens Holm has a number of proposals that are specifically budget related. I very much welcome the fact that the Left Party comes up with this kind of concrete proposal in the budget discussions, but they can actually be taken there. I am also, of course, preparing proposals on how to advance environmental positions in the last budget of the parliamentary term. Unfortunately, the issue of fishing in protected areas is extremely complex, because we have a national mandate in Sweden to protect marine areas, the sea, but the fisheries policy is common to the EU. Therefore, as in the case of protected area on land, there are no automatic links between protection decisions and, in this case, how to fish in the area. We have now taken a number of large and important decisions to protect more seas in Sweden's zones. A work on management plans is now under way. There is also solid work going on on how to use the areas that have been protected since before, and we have taken an important decision on Bratten, where fishing is now regulated. Making such a decision takes several years of collaboration with the industry and not least with other countries that have fishing rights in the area in question, and it is necessary for us to be able to take decisions on fishing in protected areas, regardless of the form of protection. It is time-consuming, but it is important that we maintain the pace of work. As I said, the decision about Bratten was a breakthrough. A new method was found to arrive at this type of decision and basis so that we can regulate fishing. Now we have it in place, so we can systematically go through the protected areas. But it will take time because it requires a lot of collaboration. But the government is clear that this work is going on, so that we get better real protection for both the fish and the bottoms of the protected areas. I am pleased that Jens Holm also addresses the impact of consumption on the ability to achieve environmental objectives. For the first time in our budget, which was presented to Parliament, we had an environmental supplement. It focuses on the areas where we have the most to do. We choose to address the most difficult areas, and one of them is consumption-based emissions. This is the first time we have a product that systematically addresses this issue. It states that the emissions from what we import are greater than the emissions that occur in Sweden. It shows the importance of us really continuing to work on this. It is also noted that a lot of methodological work remains before we can find systematic work on this issue. However, the fact that the issue is now included in the environmental annex means that we have started the work and moved it several steps forward, so perhaps at some point we will have enough information and a method that makes it possible to make a decision on a national target in the matter.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-215	Mr President, I would like to I got some answers to my questions, and I thank you for that. As far as consumption-based emissions are concerned, they are, as the Minister says, actually larger than those on Swedish territory. It is good that there is an annex, and it is good that the government also has a strategy for sustainable consumption. But I think there's a lot more to it. If we are to be able to deal with the large emissions that are currently flying under the radar, we need a target that is measurable and follow-up, just as we have a target for the emissions that occur on Swedish soil. Of course, we also need a decision on how much we want these emissions to be reduced. The government is completely free to present such a milestone at any time, for example within the framework of the environmental objectives system. I asked earlier a question about fines for those who violate the Forest Protection Act. I didn't get an answer to it, but the minister has a chance to give an answer. Nor did I get an answer to the question of lead ammunition. The Minister has replied to me in writing, but I did not think it was an answer to my specific question. It can't be that lead should be spread to eagles and other animals living in our nature, can it? We know that we can deal with this by banning lead in ammunition so that other ammunition can be used. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party will not only back up concrete proposals that will help to resolve the major issues of our time, especially environmental objectives, but we will push for an active momentum so that the momentum is set in motion and there will be more concrete decisions and measures.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-222	Mr President, I would like to It is important that we discuss regularly in this House the work of achieving environmental objectives and, over and over again, clearly state that the ambition is to achieve them. This is long-term and urgent work, not least because the time between deciding on an instrument and having an impact on the environment is long. We know a lot about the state of the environment in Sweden. We have it well strained because we have a fantastically good environmental monitoring with a lot of information. For example, we know the effects of the spread of lead on mammals and other things, and lead is a very dangerous substance. We also have a number of methods of action. As far as chemicals are concerned, the most important substitution is that alternative methods be found with industry so that a ban can be introduced later if necessary. It is important in terms of ammunition but also in general for products we produce. It is also always worth commenting that in the work on this change, in the substitution work, in the chemical work, in the work on finding better fuels, sustainable fossil-free fuels for our transport, in the work on developing new technology and in the work on how to build cities and urban areas sustainable there are huge opportunities for Sweden as a country, for our business community and for our general knowledge development. Here, too, we have a lot of tension with research that is at the forefront and an industry that is on and wants to be involved. It gives me hope for the future. But we also need a government and a budget dedicated to the issue.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-228	Mr President, I would like to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me if the government has adopted new principles for the Swedish position on issues relating to restrictions on hazardous substances and what these principles are in that case. I would like to begin by thanking Jesper Skalberg Karlsson for highlighting the issue of how to look at plant breeding and limiting the spread of dangerous substances. I must make it clear that glufosinate ammonium and glyphosate are two different active substances. As regards Echas's opinion on the classification of the active substance glyphosate, it is only when the European Commission proposes a new approval regulation for glyphosate in the Regulatory Committee on Plant Protection Products that it is possible to assess whether that decision will affect Sweden's action in the EU on glyphosate and glyphosate-resistant GMOs. Glufosinate ammonium is a particularly dangerous substance and has been classified as reproductive disruptors. This means that the substance no longer complies with the requirements for an authorisation under EU Regulation 1107/ 2009 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market. However, the substance may be used during the authorisation provided for in the old legislation until it has been re-examined under the new legislation. The authorisation of a GMO crop resistant to glufosinate ammonium poses a risk of increased use of this dangerous plant protection product. The approval of GMOs allowing the use of glufosinate ammonium would thus be contrary to the government's environmental policy, in particular the environmental quality objective of a non-toxic environment, and would discourage compliance with the EU's environmental action programme. The government has voted against the cultivation of two GM maize varieties that are resistant to glufosinate ammonium in 2016. This was done in accordance with the GMO policy established in the Riksdag 2015, Government proposal 2013/ 14:39 On the way to a non-toxic everyday life – platform for chemicals policy and the Government's letter Gift-free everyday life. Finally, I note that Sweden's assessment continues to be that GM crops resistant to the toxic weed glufosinate ammonium should not be authorised for cultivation in the EU. The government's assessment is based on a balance of the views of all expert authorities and the government's chemicals policy.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-235	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for the Environment for his answer. Let me begin by saying that the Green Party is indeed a multifaceted party. As a youth federation and then a Member of Parliament, I have travelled around the country on book tables, debates and various panel discussions and met environmental partners and members of Green Youth. Then it has occurred to me that they are curious, visionary, perceptive and constructive young people who really want to talk about how we build a sustainable future, both linked to the environmental challenge and the environmental objectives as well as to the integration of the first generation of Swedes in this country. It's no secret that I think this way. If the Green Party were only built up by these people, who have visions and are constructive, the Green Party could have been part of a different government from that of the Social Democrats. Then the Green Party has a different face, and unfortunately we see that more and more of it. It is an environmental party that wants to introduce a new national instrument in the form of air tax, which is not very effective. It also wants to enforce large-scale bans on, for example, trawling, which is quite anti- business for the West Coast region. It is also pushing for targets of 100% organically in the EU, even though it knows that it leads to less harvests and that the world has limited food. This is a shade, to say the least. Then there is also a small click in the Green Party that has even more extreme views and that really turns away from science and instead relies on conspiracy theories and self-nicked politics. These include chemtrails, electrical allergies and a fear-based resistance to, for example, genetically modified crops. It is sad for a party that Sweden would somehow need as a constructive and future-oriented environmental party. When we talk about GMOs, we are talking about science. It's the most advanced plant breeding technique we have right now. I believe that we need to exploit this potential if we are to meet the global food challenge. It can be said of science in general that for quite a long time and to an increasing extent it has had to stand back for more or less loose opinion. At the same time, feelings and prejudices have been given the same meaning as objective facts. Against this background, I think it is positive that the government – and not least Minister Karolina Skog – has, in recent weeks, highlighted the importance of the central role of science and research in political decision-making and social development, including in March for Science. It is even more important, then, that we not only write a well-formulated and fine debate article, but also implement it in practical policy and have it as the key word in all the decisions that we make. It is interesting to ask Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog if scientific advice and expertise have really been followed when decisions have been taken on, among other things, new crops that are GMO crops. Both the Swedish Board of Agriculture and the European Union Expert Authority, Efsa, have assessed these two maize varieties as safe. Why, then, has the government voted 'no'? Does the government really follow the advice of the expert authorities?
i-eb500ec4de200e18-246	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes you make mistakes in politics. One way to avoid focusing on this is to direct questions to your opponent. I have received an interpellation that is simply based on a misunderstanding. These are two different substances which have certain similarities in the name, but which are not the same substance. This is based on a discussion of glyphosate, but the question is about glufosinate ammonium, which is another substance that is found to be dangerous. The government's chemicals policy is very clear. There are substances that we know are dangerous – and glufosinate ammonium is a dangerous substance. New information has been added to show that it is indeed a dangerous substance. It should therefore be phased out of the EU. Once we have that information, we shall not allow tests on crops that are linked to and are to be grown together with the very dangerous substance. It is therefore a question of introducing new crops to the market, which depend on this dangerous substance which is being phased out. The new information we have received on the dangers of glufosinate ammonium should of course be part of the decisions we take, including on the GMO issue. That is what we have done in this case. We have voted against the testing of two maize varieties that are resistant to glufosinate ammonium that is proven dangerous. Then the honourable Member has simply confused this with another discussion on another subject, glyphosate. It's easy to happen. In a way, it is a question of how to relate to information and recommendations from authorities. The government's approach to dealing with GMO issues is to make decisions on a case-by-case basis based on an overall assessment of the expert authorities' information, and we have done so in this case as well. When we know that glufosinate ammonium is really dangerous, we should not act in a way that increases the use of that particular substance. That is very logical and also in line with the policy that we have anchored in this House. I am, of course, pleased to have the opportunity to emphasise once again the importance of the interaction between politics, research and science. When we politicians make decisions, it is important to ask the question: How do you know? What is it based on? Is it doing an accounting back? But I notice that this discussion and the relationship between science and politics are very quickly going wrong. It seems to be based on a picture that the scientific community is a homogeneous group where everyone feels the same and can make an automatic transmission of information that gives automatic answers to policy. Had that been the case, we would not have had to have a political system at all. We politicians should collect information and value it and make decisions based on our political agenda and objectives. That is what we have done in this case. We now have a policy of phasing out hazardous substances, including glufosinate ammonium, and we are making decisions in this direction.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-257	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for the Environment, for that answer. The Minister for the Environment says that there are different scientists who think different things. It is important to establish that it is a bit of a chimare in many respects. I have had some debates with Swedish democrats who say on the climate issue: No, there are actually two different sides to the coin. There are scientists who say different things. It is true that there are researchers who do not believe in global warming, but then you should be honest that it can be 99 percent against 1 percent. Just because there are two sides, they are not automatically the same size. You have to be clear about that. As the Minister for the Environment says, separate glufosinate ammonium and glyphosate. Glyfosat is a subject that has existed since 1970 under a variety of brands. That substance has been assessed as safe by Efsa, by the FAO and by ECHA. After all, there are three expert authorities in this area. They are not omniscient in any way, but they are the expert authorities on which we usually base the scientific assessment. As far as glyphosate is concerned, the government has wavered. Even when the exemption was to be extended a year ago, it was opposed, although Efsa had said that glyphosates do not pose a risk of cancer with the amounts to which they are exposed. Of course, things can be dangerous, but most things are dangerous if only the concentration is large enough. It is about how much you are exposed to and exposed to the substance. It may be correct that these maize varieties may be resistant to glufosinate ammonium, but nevertheless Efsa and the Swedish Agriculture Agency have recommended their approval. Somewhere we talk about different things. Glufosinate ammonium has a documented harmful effect, so maybe there's a reason to phase it out, I'm not against that. However, with regard to the crops voted against, the expert authorities have said that they should be approved. We can then consider whether the expert authorities have been given the right policy instruments from the outset. The Minister uses words as alternative facts, and she has done so in previous debates as well. It is a fashion word that is used quite diligently. The fact that Donald Trump has moved into the White House may not mean that this phenomenon is so new. All relativization of science and bringing in small wedges to such mistrust are things that have existed since French intellectuals like Derrida and Foucault and who got to take root in Sweden in connection with the 68-movement when the left took over at the universities. Overall, I find it worrying if Sweden moves more and more of the assessment of new crops to politics. I think it is reasonable to listen to the opinions of the expert authorities, which should form the basis for our assessment. There are many forces in our society right now that are trying to influence politics on different issues and in different directions. It is easy to confuse yourself, because it is not a matter of small forces in the process, but of great economic and democratic interests.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-265	Mr President, I would like to When you build an interpellation on a reasoning that you should listen to the authorities and to science, it is weak that you cannot admit when it has become clear that the interpellation is based on a misunderstanding. In the text, the honourable Member argues that we should have voted against the varieties of maize in question because they are resistant to glyphosate. What is right is that we have voted against them because they are resistant to glufosinate ammonium. Jesper Skalberg agrees with me that the substance should be phased out because it is documented dangerous, but he does not conclude that we should therefore not release new crops. These are not even on the market today, but are in the process of being developed. They'll be on the market later. To use them, this harmful substance must also be used. This doesn't make any sense. Of course, if we are to phase out a dangerous substance, we should not contribute to its use. It's different things. You can't have both at the same time. New information on the dangers of glufosinate ammonium has been added, and it has not yet been fully implemented in the European regulatory framework. The regulatory framework also says that when you have new information and know that it would not be allowed in a new review, you should act according to that information even if the administrative review has not yet been carried out, which it has not in this case. The authorities are bound, of course, by what is on paper. This is one of the reasons why we want to take a political position also on the issues dealt with by the committees of experts, and we anchor it. The Government writes an instruction which is then anchored in the Riksdag. In this case, we have taken on board the new information on the dangers of the subject in question, and we will adapt to that when we vote. This is nothing new and does not mean any change, but now the policy that the government has set out and anchored in the Riksdag is being applied. GMOs are an important and positive technology to solve challenges and use plant breeding more effectively. But it should not be a route to take out and increase the use of dangerous chemicals. We must be able to use this tool for our benefit and not to counteract an active chemicals policy. Jesper Skalberg seems to want to stick to a plant breeding anti-aggressive agenda on me, but I think he's failing to do that properly. I have actually worked with plant breeding and am closely related to one of Sweden's most famous plant breeders. I am very familiar with and believe in the power of plant breeding, and I see that GMOs are a natural development. It is clear that it is good to be effective in plant breeding so that we can use this tool even better. Then we can face not least climate change and changes in nature with better crops in the future, and we will therefore have a more efficient agriculture. However, I stand by the fact that we must have a clear strategy to phase out hazardous pesticides from use in the European Union. This has and will have consequences for which new crops we place on the market.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-272	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Here she says exactly what I want a Swedish Minister for the Environment to say in this House and what I want a Swedish Minister for the Environment not to have any doubts about, i.e. that GMOs are an important and positive technology. I fully agree with that. I therefore hope that the government can continue to base the approval of new crops on science. With regard to the two maize varieties that were in the process a few months ago, both the Swedish Board of Agriculture and the European Union's expert authority, Efsa, have assessed them as safe. Finally, I would like to return to what I said at the beginning of the debate. There are several different sides of the Green Party and its representatives. There are constructive and perceptive people who want to see sustainable development and focus on the word. Rather than stand still and say no to technology development, plant breeding and things that can solve our future challenges, you should affirm new technology and research. I do not think it is sustainable to stand still, but society needs sustainable development, not an unsustainable stagnation. Then we need growth and more people who come here and build a future. This will strengthen our country's competitiveness and future prospects. I am pleased that the Minister for the Environment states that GMOs are an important and positive technology. I wish her a nice weekend too.
i-eb500ec4de200e18-277	Mr President, I would like to It's actually quite simple. Today, in Swedish politics, we agree that sustainable development is about development. I am extremely pleased that this image has gained a strong foothold in Swedish politics and society. It is also shared by the business community. An important part of this is to see the potential of new technologies in various areas, including in the agricultural sector. Then we can work more efficiently and meet the challenges that exist. However, this should not mean that politics should stand by and assume some kind of night watchman's role. If we talk about parties, there are different sides within all parties. I see great dangers to environmental policy when it comes to those who try to reduce the role of politics to be minimal, uncritical and passive. If we are to have a functioning chemicals policy in Sweden and the EU, we need a firm and clear implementation of the principles that we have laid down for chemicals policy and the knowledge that comes to us as we go. If we know that a pesticide is dangerous, we cannot at the same time approve and place new crops on the market that depend on the dangerous pesticide. This is not connected, it is the abolition of chemicals policy. That would make it impossible for us to phase out substances that are dangerous. This is very far from the principle of implementing what we agree on in Europe and in Sweden.
