i-d72fea124dd52e05-0	Mr President, I would like to Today is the first day we meet in Parliament after the attack on our open society. It was a horrendous act just a few blocks from here. Our thoughts go to those affected and to those who have lost loved ones. The Swedish people have shown that in Sweden we stick together. In grief, people have sought fellowship and shown trust. Policemen, health workers, firefighters and many others have shown courage and professionalism. Politics has shown that we can gather when Sweden needs it. Responsibility for Sweden requires cooperation, but it also requires an open debate. The democratic day-to-day work should continue and must continue. Let me begin with a quote from Gunnar Sträng from 1966. As he said, step by step we are forced to channel our thoughts into paths based on the facts we can acquire on a scientific basis. Step by step and in a free debate we approach, if not the great clarity, yet a better knowledge of the system and context of things. Eventually we put this into our political action and come closer to a solution to the problems of society.This is how we must continue to work. Today we gather for a budget debate, for an open discussion and with an exchange of views on how best to shape Sweden's future. Mr President, I would like to When the government took office in 2014, the general government deficit was SEK 60 billion. Unemployment, especially among young people, had stuck at high levels. The former government's unfunded tax cuts of 140 billion had forced welfare to stand back while digging a huge gap in public finances. In recent years Sweden has been steered in a different direction. The government has worked year after year, budget after budget, to recreate the power of the Swedish economy. We have done this by getting more people to work, by taking control of running cost systems and by conducting a tight fiscal policy. Tens of thousands more have been given the opportunity to strengthen their knowledge so that they can take one of the 100,000 vacancies in the Swedish economy. Joint investments in housing infrastructure and climate change contribute to continued employment and growth. Through historically large contributions to the municipal sector, we can now see more teachers, nurses, curators, carers, preschool teachers, socionomists and home helpers finally being employed. Today, 150 000 more have a job to go to than when we took office. Youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years and the employment rate is the highest since the early 1990s. Refugee policy has been changed to allow more people to apply for asylum in other EU countries and fewer in Sweden. We have broken the trend in health insurance, while the distant parentheses have been abolished. Not since the 1990s crisis has such a small proportion of the population been dependent on insurance systems for their livelihoods. We also see that pensioners have gained increased financial security. We have financed our reforms, strengthened public revenue and acted vigorously against cheating and waste. The result is that we are now tracking surpluses throughout the term of office. We have order in public finances.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-12	Mr President, I would like to Therefore, Sweden and the Swedish economy are now in a completely new situation. Order and order in public finances ensure the investment climate, jobs and well-being, while at the same time building shelters for the coming worse times on the day they come. International interest in what is happening in Sweden is also increasing. Both politicians and economists see a tried and tested model where redistribution leads to higher growth, a robust construction that goes through tough times of economic crisis. It is something that is increasingly noticeable. Inequality was the word on everyone's lips during the World Economic Forum meeting in Davos in February. Inclusive growth is the theme of the International Monetary Fund meeting in Washington this weekend that is coming. During his visit to Sweden, the Secretary-General of the OECD stated that the world would be both more equal and more equal if the Swedish model could only be exported. Again, the Swedish model proves that equality and development are mutually reinforcing. But there are dark clouds in our world. 2016 was a year with many revolutionary decisions. When, during the night of Midsummer Eve, we became clear that the British people actually chose to leave the EU, there were many who were concerned about what was now to happen. On a snowy night in November, the American people then voted Donald Trump to the next president of the United States. This is something we now have to relate to. At the same time, we must reflect on the driving forces behind the decisions of both the British and the American people. Large groups of employees in the industrialized world have hardly seen any increase in income throughout their working lives, while the same people see that the economy is delivering growing wealth for other groups. They see that the rich have become richer and that the gaps are increasing. We cannot ignore these developments when we are going to explain the diminution of confidence in politics and in the institutions of society. Inequality creates increased contradictions, and trust in the common is diminishing. People's mistrust is spelled Brexit and Trump. The Swedish model has delivered something else. We have had a much more even income development, where broader employee groups have received wage increases. But the gaps are also growing here. Those who are the toughest have slipped behind while peak incomes have increased sharply. Society has been torn apart at both ends. This is a development that this government will never accept. Mr President, I would like to The strength of the Swedish economy now gives us the opportunity to meet the challenges we face. Unemployment will continue to decline. Today there are thousands of vacancies in the Swedish economy that cannot be filled because companies do not find the right skills. That's why we're going to invest more in knowledge and education. Employment among foreign born people is rising, but it still takes far too long to get into work for people who come to Sweden. The differences in employment between men and women are totally unacceptable. It is unacceptable because paid work with a living wage is what gives economic independence, power and the opportunity to shape one's own life. In Sweden, no one should have to get caught up in domestic work. That is why we have abolished the parent-led government's custody allowance, which is why we are now removing the possibility for newcomers to take part in parental insurance retroactively. Parental insurance should not be used to cement conservative values about women being at home. Combating inequality is one of the most important tasks of a Social Democratic Minister of Finance. The biggest economic gap is between those who have a job and those who do not have a job. That is why the goal of the EU's lowest unemployment is the guiding factor in economic policy. Everyone who can work should work, both women and men. Then the gaps will narrow, and then we will also create growing resources.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-24	Mr President, I would like to Sweden should be safe. The ability of the police to operate across the country will be strengthened. The number of police employees will increase. We have already tightened the penalties against the gangs, against the weapons and against the violence, and we will ensure that the police get the resources they need. Therefore, in our amending budget, we propose that the Police Authority be added SEK 700 million already this year. With a strong judiciary, we fight crime. With safe schools and safety nets for vulnerable children and young people, we work preventively and combat the causes of crime. We contribute 500 million to the primary schools that have the greatest needs. The introduction programmes of upper secondary schools are strengthened, as are child and youth psychiatry and social child and youth care. It is also important that welfare can be trusted for everyone. Few things have such a redistributive effect as a high-quality, tax-funded welfare business. Economic policy must ensure a high level of well-being, not least as the population grows rapidly. Therefore, the government is now adding another 500 million to maternity care. The person who is about to give birth should know that there is room and sufficient professional health care professionals. Sweden will continue to be a leading country in the climate transition. The Paris Agreement is something we should live up to. That is where we allocate another 500 million to the Climate Scene. In this way, greenhouse gas emissions can continue to decrease while creating jobs and investments across Sweden. Sweden will also build common security, and the government has therefore decided to reintroduce military service. In addition, the defence is already being added 500 million this year to strengthen the Swedish total defence. Mr President, I would like to The government continues to safeguard public finances. Confidence in the Swedish economy should never be jeopardised by tax evasion, profit hunting or lack of cost control. Instead, the growing economic space in the coming years will be used to address the challenges and problems that Sweden is facing, while at the same time building shelters for the future. The challenges of our time, whether in terms of school performance, climate change, segregation, crime or quality in care, have one thing in common: they cannot be solved by cuts in our common welfare, unfunded tax cuts or privatisations. The challenges of our time can only be solved by building a stronger society and keeping our country together. That is the construction of society. At a time when our democratic values are faced with tough trials, the government's economic policy remains firm. Together with the Left Party, the government is taking a series of measures in the spring change budget to meet these challenges. This is how we meet people's expectations of a safe, equal and sustainable society. This is how we take responsibility for the Sweden that we hand over to our children and grandchildren. That's how the government takes responsibility in a troubled time.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-32	Mr President, I would like to First of all, let me wholeheartedly agree with the words of the Minister for Finance on the role of democracy in combating terror, but also our task of exercising exactly the democracy that terror despises – and we are doing so here today. Otherwise, I do not agree with the Minister for Finance. I think it is a clearly satisfied government that has appeared this morning. I think it's a false satisfaction. Half a million people will have arrived in our country between 2010 and 2020. It is people who are going into the Swedish labour market or living on Swedish contributions. Today, it takes nine years for even half of the new arrivals to have their own job – and yet it is the most generous definition of what is a job. If you demand full-time employment and firm anchoring, it takes even longer. The gap in employment between native born Swedes and foreign born is large and growing. It is so large that we are talking about 150 000 people who should either come in and start working or live on benefits, probably for the rest of their lives. Why does the government barely say a single word about Sweden's single biggest challenge in this spring bill?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-37	Mr President, I would like to I share Ulf Kristersson's concern that people who have come to Sweden find it difficult to enter the labour market. But unlike Ulf Kristersson, I am delighted with all the Swedes who were born in Sweden who are now coming to work. It is a great success both for these individuals and for the companies in which they get jobs. It is good that people born in Sweden now enter the labour market. We can see that they do so with great power. That is also why we see a very high employment rate in Sweden, in fact the highest in the European Union, where 150 000 more people have a job to go to since this government took office. We also see youth unemployment falling and being the lowest in 13 years. All this is good, but it does not prevent us from having to do more to get people who are new in Sweden to work. Here the government has taken many measures. It's about having the right action based on what person you are. If you are young, you should of course attend a secondary school education, which we see as a watershed in the Swedish labour market. Then it is education that applies. If you have vocational training and work experience, you should receive a supplementary education so that you can enter the Swedish labour market. If you are older and you do not have professional experience or education, you need to have subsidised employment as a first step into the labour market. All this the government is working tirelessly on, and we will, of course, continue to work for this. What is positive is that we see that the proportion of people living on different transfer systems has decreased and is expected to continue to decrease in the coming years. This year, the proportion that lives in what Ulf Kristersson usually refers to as alienation is actually the smallest since the 90s. We may be able to enjoy this together, Ulf Kristersson.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-43	Mr President, I would like to I am happy to offer it, because for eight years you fought against all the reforms that led to the widespread, great alienation that Sweden had then started to reduce. Every step we took, you were against. There was no limit to the misery that would be created if Sweden did not continue to pre-retire generations. Now you think it's good. I am pleased that you are not tearing up all our reforms and restoring the broad exclusion. What you do not see is that the new exclusion is much narrower and deeper. There is a boom in Sweden. Then you get a job. If not trained Swedes with experience got a job in boom, they would never get a job. With all due respect, it's not your fault. As a result of the boom, those who are trained get jobs, but not those who are not. You're not doing anything to give these people a better chance of getting in. You speak nicely, but you do not reform. Why do the reforms shine with their absence?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-46	Mr President, I would like to Of course we are carrying out reforms. We have carried out a series of reforms. We have introduced a new major knowledge boost where you get education based on what needs you have. It can be about studying the theoretical subjects in upper secondary school or going to vocational adult and entering the vocational programme. It is about expanding folk high schools, polytechnics and universities. All of this has been done by the government. For those people who need to get a foothold in the labour market and where education is not the answer, we have additional welfare services where municipalities can employ completely free of charge. We also have 5,000 standby jobs in the state, and we are now reviewing the employment subsidies to make it easier. We have therefore taken action in all these areas. In addition, we see that people with foreign background also get jobs. In fact, 70% of new jobs have gone to people born in another country. That's good, too.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-50	Mr President, I would like to In Sweden we have a shortage of police officers, we have a shortage of teachers and we have a shortage of nurses. In short, we have a shortage of civil servants. One answer to this may be to try to train more people to these professions so that the shortage of staff can be resolved in the long term. Some of this is done by the government, and I think that is good and quite right. But it's not improving the situation right now. There's a shortage of nurses in medical care now, not in years. If it is in that way that those who are trained in these professions do not remain in their jobs, it does not help how many training places we set up. We know, for example, that many nurses leave their jobs, and almost all state the same reasons: it is inhumane working hours, it is stress, it is poor working conditions and it is poor wage development. My question to the Minister for Finance is: How much is the Government investing in the budget proposal that has now been submitted to Parliament on, for example, the right to full-time employment for public health workers or other types of strengthening of working conditions?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-54	Mr President, I would like to Since the government took office, we have made extensive investments in the public sector, where we ensure that municipalities and county councils are strengthened in their economic conditions. We have, among other things, added 10 welfare billions – general money that goes to municipalities and county councils and that they as employers have the opportunity to use in the way they find is very best for the business. In addition, we have made extensive efforts at the school to strengthen the number of people there, and we have made special investments in elderly care. We have made a number of extensive efforts and also extended the training programmes. This means that there are opportunities for municipalities and county councils to assess, based on their role as employers, how much money should be spent on hiring new ones and what should be spent on wages. It is not we in Parliament who are the employers of these people, but the municipalities and county councils. In Sweden, we do not put salaries here in Parliament, but employers do. Our task here in Parliament is to ensure that our public activities have the resources to employ those needed, with reasonable working conditions. This is why the government has invested in municipalities and county councils. This distinguishes us from the Swedish Democrats, who want to save 10 billion on municipalities and county councils. How much does Oscar Sjöstedt estimate that nurses' salaries must be reduced when 10 billion are saved? How many fewer nurses does Oscar Sjöstedt want to see? How many nurses for many do we have in Sweden, how many teachers, how many nurses and how many preschool teachers? Please tell the Swedish people!
i-d72fea124dd52e05-58	Mr President, I would like to This would have been very interesting to discuss if it had been consistent with the truth, but everyone knows that it is not. I buy that it is not the Riksdag that is the employer. I think we should respect the model we have – that it is the parties that get along. Nevertheless, the situation is a cause for concern. If I understand correctly, the Social Democrats have now also agreed that we need more police officers. I think most parties here think so. At the same time, we have a situation where a great many police officers leave their jobs, not because they are tired of being police officers, but because working conditions are so bad. We have over 9 000 trained and experienced nurses working in completely different industries because the working conditions are so bad, the stress level so high and the working environment so stressful. It does not help to educate more people if those who are trained leave the professions. Isn't that troubling?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-62	Mr President, I would like to Oscar Sjöstedt said just now that I am not the employer of these people. My task, however, is to ensure that there are resources. We have contributed resources both to municipalities and county councils as well as to the police, both last year and this year. Oscar Sjöstedt asked me to perform a task that is not mine. Instead, Oscar Sjöstedt might stand up for his budget bill, where it is clear that the Swedish Democrats cut 10 billion on municipalities and county councils. They want fewer employees in municipalities and county councils. The nurses will have fewer colleagues. This is what Oscar Sjöstedt stands for. He wants there to be fewer teachers, but that's not all. He also wants private companies – venture capital companies – to be free to collect profits from our schools and preschools and our health care and care for the elderly, profits to go to the venture capitalists' own pockets. They should also be sent to tax havens where you do not pay Swedish tax for them. This policy stands for Oscar Sjöstedt: more profit and less resources. This is Oscar Sjöstedt's melody for the nurse in Sweden.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-65	Mr President, I would like to We're standing on top of a wasted boom. Why is Sweden doing well? There are a variety of answers to that question, but one important way of analysing this is that after the 90s the crisis was done partly by wise structural reforms and partly by two alliance governments that ensured that there were much better incentives to move from exclusion to work. Now, among other things, we live on the fruits of this. With all due respect for Magdalena Andersson's work, there are more difficult things in Swedish politics than administering a strong boom. The question is what we do to prepare ground for further years and decades of Swedish success. We can see that there are two major problems in the Swedish economy at present. It is the labour market, which works for many but not for too many people, and we have a housing market that creates housing shortages in large as well as small cities. This is something that needs to be addressed. All independent international assessors agree that Sweden must have a more inclusive labour market where more people get a chance and where we make the reforms that were made in, for example, Germany and the UK, where hundreds of thousands more got a job to go to. We must liberalise and simplify the housing market and construction and ensure that far more people receive a first-hand contract or a owned dwelling. On both these major and important points for Sweden, the government does almost nothing. It chooses to put the problems in front of it and does not tackle the fundamentally structurally important problems that Sweden simply has to solve for future generations. It is deeply irresponsible for the government to let this go on. Magdalena Andersson! Why does the government not do more about this?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-71	Mr President, I would like to When Emil Källström says that we should make structural changes in the labour market and the housing market, that means two things. The first is that we politicians here in the Swedish Parliament are going to lower people's salaries, and the second is that we are going to raise their rents. This is the structurally correct policy according to Emil Källström. I do not share his view. I do not think that we should reduce wages or raise rents, especially at the same time. On the other hand, I think there are other structurally correct and important reforms to be implemented. We now see in Sweden that there is a watershed on the Swedish labour market, between those who have a secondary school education and those who do not. Therefore, it is structurally correct to ensure that people have the opportunity to get through high school. We have taken on this task since we entered government. It is partly about strengthening schools so that children get the support they need to get further into upper secondary school, and partly about investing in adult education, both komvux and professional adult, so that more people get upper secondary education, both those who were born in Sweden and those who come here. It is also about the need for a better functioning housing market. That is why the government has launched a 22-point programme that we are now implementing to bring up the housing infrastructure, short lead times and make it easier for companies to build and reduce construction costs. We see that a lot of homes are being built around Sweden now, more than many thought could be built. This is positive, but we must ensure that this trend continues. That is why we have a range of measures that we have taken and that we will take to continue to build on these high levels. I do not share the view that lower wages and higher rents are the way forward for Sweden.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-77	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Finance has developed it into a fine art to defend and explain the government and its own passivity. I would hardly have expected anything else, but if we take something from this debate, we can see that there are political forces in Sweden who want more and who have a desire for reform. We can also note that there is a clear parliamentary majority against a number of the government's proposed tax increases on jobs and companies. Here the government must realise that it is in a minority, that there is a framework for how much freedom it can take and that it is genuinely unwise both in substance and in form to try to increase the tax on small businesses, increase wage taxes and introduce anything but effective environmental taxes, perhaps particularly exemplified by air tax. Magdalena Andersson! Do not try the patience of the majority of Parliament on this matter! Back away from the tax increases that we know a majority is against!
i-d72fea124dd52e05-80	Mr President, I would like to Now, in itself, there has been a majority in parliament against a great many of the tax changes that we have made during our term of office. What has happened, however, since the budget has been passed is that the bourgeois parties have since often joined the tax increases afterwards and thought they have been great. Imagine how critical the Moderates were to the escalation of the job tax deduction or that we had written up all the stratum limits. But in hindsight, they've thought it's great. In the same way, it is with the reduced social security contribution for young people that there was a lot of criticism about – young people would no longer have jobs. But after a few years, most of the opposition parties thought it was a great policy. It may be that in retrospect they will also feel that the changes we are making here are good, too, if they follow the historical pattern. Emil Källström says the government is passive. I do not call 80 000 more people participating in the Knowledgelift for passivity. I also do not call the 60 000 homes that started to be passive. I think it shows a great activity in Sweden and from the Swedish government.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-83	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the government does not see the problems of integration. In the midst of the boom, a new underclass is emerging in Sweden, characterised by idleness and dependency on benefits – the breeding ground for the crime we see not least in our suburbs. The Public Employment Service estimates that next year, 2018, 300 000 people will be vulnerable groups. It is a group that is increasing, and it is increasing not least in the light of the fact that more new arrivals are entering the Swedish labour market. In this situation, the government chooses only to paint the Swedish economy and to propose measures that are so small in relation to this social problem that it becomes almost ridiculous. The Employment Service points out 300 000 people in vulnerable groups. The government's response is 5,000 preparedness jobs in the public sector – 5,000 jobs and 300,000 in dependency and idleness. We see a complete lack of understanding of what is happening in Swedish society, where the Minister of Finance refuses to see reality as reality. On the Liberal side, we have proposed a number of reforms to break the new unemployment rate. It is about creating more ways into the Swedish labour market, where people get the opportunity to have simple real jobs instead of grants, and where society should have high expectations of people to support themselves. It is a question of not accepting passive dependency on benefits and of demanding compensation from those who have support for living, social security, that they have practice, read the Swedish language or do something else. Why does Magdalena Andersson not see the new lower class? Why is a grant better than a simple job? Why is it better to make unclaimed contributions than to make demands on people?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-88	Mr President, I would like to I would like to remind Mats Persson that I am concerned about every person in Sweden who does not work. Everyone who can work should work. But when Mats Persson says that a new subclass is emerging, I think it might also be worth recalling that the proportion and number of people who depend on different forms of transfers for their livelihoods are decreasing in the coming years and are actually the smallest since the 1990s. It is important to see it if we are now talking about a new emerging subclass. One thing that is obvious here is that Mats Persson's policy, which was presented in the Liberal Budget Movement and which largely consisted of tax cuts for people with higher incomes, is hardly the answer. That was the Liberals' answer in their budget motion. It was there that they invested the financial resources. That's not how we break the growing divides. Instead, we need to make sure that we invest for the future of everyone who lives in Sweden. Whether you live in a community or in a suburb, you need to be able to get good preschools and schools for your children, schools that catch up with all children, good leisure activities, opportunities to leave home and put the key in your own first apartment and get a foot in the labour market. In all these areas, the government has worked to ensure that we in Sweden have increased opportunities. We have increased the resources for preschools, we have increased the resources for schools, we have carried out the biggest housing policy effort in 20 years – especially in order to build new rental apartments – we have taken steps to enable people to enter the labour market and we are now seeing the lowest youth unemployment rate in 13 years. The Government is actively working on these issues, both for people living in our suburbs and in vulnerable areas and for people living in other parts of Sweden. It is important that everyone in Sweden has the opportunity to have their own job, their own home and their own livelihood.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-92	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to Magdalena Andersson it becomes so obvious that she does not see reality as reality. Sweden is very twofold. You can choose to describe one part of Sweden – the boom and that people get jobs. But you can also choose to try to attack the emergence of a new underclass, dependency and idleness, where people year after year go on benefits and never get out of this dependency. Instead of presenting proposals on this, Magdalena Andersson makes it the classic to talk about the shortcomings of my policy. I present what we are proposing, that is, more simple real jobs, and we want to make higher demands on people so that people do not get stuck in dependency. Why is it wrong to give more people the chance to enter the labour market? And why is it wrong to have high expectations of people and that they should work? Why is it wrong that society imposes demands on people to practice, for example, in order for them to receive grants? I think that this clearly shows that there is a job line towards a benefit line.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-96	Mr President, I would like to I think it is extremely important that all people who can work should work. Therefore, the government has also taken several measures to enable people who are far from the labour market to participate in the labour market. On the other hand, I do not share the Liberals' view that we should reduce wages in Sweden – high demands – yes, lower wages – no. On the contrary, I mentioned in my introduction that it is important that all people work. What we also see is that the proportion of women with foreign background participating in the labour market is far too small. Many more of the women who have moved to Sweden need to enter the labour market. That is why we have abolished the custody allowance that was introduced when the Liberals were in government and that meant that many women were locked into passivity. We are now also changing parental insurance to allow more women to enter the labour market more quickly. We have given Arbetsförmedlingen a special assignment for more women to take part in labour market policy measures. We work actively to ensure that all people in Sweden who can work will work. But the way there is not to lower taxes for those who earn the most.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-99	Mr President, I would like to For some time it has been popular to build passive houses. I'm sure the Minister of Finance knows that. If she does not, she can certainly ask any environmental party who can do this without and before. It is therefore about houses where you do not let out any of the heat generated inside the house but keep it to save energy. Now the Minister for Finance and the Government seem to have taken this house concept to a completely new level in a completely new context when the whole Government Office has been converted into a new type of passive house, where not a single structural reform will be released into the environment. And it's probably saved on energy. It's marked, and it's turned off in the reform factory. Outside, economic activity and previous job reforms are allowed to do the job and provide energy. It's serious. But very little is allowed into the passive house. The advice and recommendations of the international assessors and the government's own expert authorities are treated with inaction. Year after year they say: Do something about the thresholds into the labour market! Do something about the problems of subsidised employment! Do something with the qualification requirements! Do something about starting wages, so that for a period of time it will be possible for people who are now far from the labour market to take a job! But these insights do not get in. When active reforms for more jobs and better care fail, tax increases remain in a boom. The government continues to deliver these tax increases. There are active tax increases, but it is passivising for the economy in the long term when you raise taxes on jobs, businesses and education in a boom. When, the Minister for Finance, will the active reforms that break the passivating division of the Swedish labour market?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-104	Mr President, I would like to Yes, they have come for two and a half years, and we also see the result: 150 000 more employed, the lowest unemployment rate since 2008 and the lowest youth unemployment rate in 13 years. It is, of course, a question of good economic activity, but it is also a question of the government taking important measures to ensure that people have the education that the labour market requires. What we saw when we entered the Government Office was that Sweden was not equipped to meet an improved economy. Too many people had not been allowed to use the crisis years to equip themselves to take the jobs when they grew up. That's why the new knowledge boost was one of the most important measures we launched as soon as we had the chance after we entered the Government Office."At the same time, we gave the instruction to Arbetsförmedlingen to pursue a more active labour market policy to equip people for the new jobs. We have also taken important steps to improve the infrastructure, to get up the building of housing and to strengthen the school system. Jakob Forssmed talks about the international judges. They come with many different advices, and different assessors come with different advice – both the international and the Swedish. One advice that both international and Swedish assessors almost always come up with is that one should do something about the interest rebates and property tax. If Jakob Forssmed now thinks that the government should listen to their recommendations on the labour market to the letter, does he think that we should also listen to the recommendations on the real estate market?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-108	Mr President, I would like to Of course, it is possible to start talking about other issues; it is of course perfectly possible in a budget debate. Does the Minister of Finance not see that we now have almost 300 000 people – a growing group, more and more – in vulnerable positions? They are increasingly away from the labour market. If you see this, where are your reforms to cope with the challenge facing these people? They don't get the chance to show what they're made of. They do not get the chance to enter a working community. I think you are completely passive about this. The Minister of Finance mentioned earlier modern standby jobs. 5,000 modern standby jobs have been promised to this group of 300,000 people. Of these jobs, twelve are now in place. They are so few that it is uncertain whether they even exist. Modern alert jobs have become some kind of postmodern alert job. It is not good enough for reform when so many people are outside the labour market.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-111	Mr President, I would like to I note that Forssmed did not want to talk about interest rebates and property tax. I did not bring it up to talk about another issue, but to point out the fact that Forssmed thinks we should listen carefully to the international judges. But perhaps Forssmed thinks we should listen with some selectivity? The government has, of course, worked extremely actively for more people to enter the labour market. It has also become the case that more people enter the labour market. This applies to people born in Sweden, which I think is great, as well as people born abroad, which is also extremely positive. It is not the case that trainee services or modern standby jobs are the only things the government is working on; there are 80 000 more training places and opportunities since we took office – in addition to the labour market policy that exists before, with new start-ups and entry-level jobs, but also other forms of subsidised employment. We have greatly expanded Samhall. We have therefore worked extremely actively to give the people who are far from the labour market a chance to get a foothold in the labour market. This government is keeping activity in full swing.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-115	Mr President, I would like to Not since the fall of the Berlin Wall has the world been as uncertain, but the differences between then and now are great. And the walls were torn down, and the borders were opened. People and countries were liberated. Nations were reborn and reunited, and Europe's economies were tied together. Liberalisation, internationalisation and market economy replaced socialism and the Cold War. A time of hope for freedom began. Our own time is more threatening than hopeful. We have Brexit in Europe and Donald Trump in the United States. If Marine Le Pen wins the French presidential election, the whole of EU cooperation is shaken. China is not a new guarantor of free trade. We have Russian aggression in our vicinity and acts of terror on the streets of Stockholm. Everyone who stood up for freedom in 1989 was right in so much. The world got better, fewer people starve and more girls go to school. Whole countries rise from the Middle Ages. This is no small step forward! But the story didn't end. The globalised and digitised economy, which offers such great opportunities for many people, also became complicated for whole societies. Migration gives people on the run a sanctuary but also creates social tensions and growing gaps. Free trade builds prosperity, but not in every factory or in every profession. The Internet freed the information, but the Internet censors the dictatorship. National state capitalism rather than democratic market economy is now gaining ground in successful economies in Africa and Asia. The world no longer looks like 1989. Mr President, I would like to In the midst of all this, Swedish growth is high and interest rates were low. However, today's good economy hides tomorrow's long-term problems. Half of Sweden's wealth comes from exports and is based on free trade. New barriers to trade would be bad for the global economy but would be particularly damaging to the Swedish economy. At home, unreasonably many people live on benefits rather than on their own jobs. Each crown used for contributions to someone who can actually work is a crown that could go to more police officers and a stronger defense. The extremely high unemployment rate among foreign-borns and those without education is now getting bogged down in the boom and will worsen in the next recession. Sweden is slipping apart and becoming more and more divided. This threatens the cohesion that has so long been a unique Swedish asset and that very few Swedes want to compromise on. Mr President, I would like to Our bill's most hidden threat is about taxes. There is increased tax on contractors, increased tax on air travel, increased vehicle tax, increased tax on insurance and, of course, increased marginal tax. When the Social Democrats together with the Swedish Democrats stopped the Alliance's reduced marginal taxes for 2014, 110 000 more people paid government income tax. For 2016 56,000 more were paid, and for 2017 there were 40,000 more. Now, then, an additional 80 000 will receive almost double the marginal tax. 300 000 Swedes have suddenly become so rich that they have lost the right to retain even half of a wage increase. Sweden is on its way back to the unfair marginal taxes of the 1970s and 1980s and is moving away from the idea of half left.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-124	Mr President, I would like to After three lost years in Swedish politics, a new reform agenda is needed. The most urgent task is integration and exclusion. If Sweden is to be an internationally open country, more people must enter, not only in the country but in society – in jobs and community. In recent years we have received a quarter of a million people, and at least 150 000 of them have only primary school in their luggage. Most can and do want to work, but this requires lower thresholds into the labour market. It is a good thing that LO now thinks so, but if it does not also lead to new agreements, a new government will have to legislate for the change. For those who have not worked at all, no job is too easy or too far away to be taken. At the same time, higher demands are needed on those who do not work even though they can work. We need an education obligation for those without basic knowledge and a major grant reform that tightens up, sets ceilings and requires gradual qualification for all the Swedish benefits. Mr President, I would like to Helping more people with low skills into the labour market is necessary but far from sufficient. The second major task is therefore about entrepreneurship and Swedish competitiveness. Sweden must become more attractive to innovative entrepreneurs and growing companies. Only successful companies can create the jobs that enable more people to support themselves and contribute to the well-being of others. If you don't see that connection, all the money will actually be the state, and the only task of politics will be to distribute. Don't try that way again! Too many entrepreneurs testify to high taxes and lack of the right skills, but for every penny that the government is now making a commitment to entrepreneurship, ten are being taken back. The big companies of the future must be able to grow today. We can't live on old records. Almost all large Swedish companies are also old Swedish companies. 20 of the 23 largest global Swedish listed companies were founded between 1853 and 1953. This is impressive but not sustainable. Sweden must be a country that entrepreneurs and headquarters want to move to – not a country that is forced to move away from. It must pay better to be an entrepreneur and to learn more and take more responsibility. Sweden does not need higher marginal taxes but lower entrepreneurial taxes. There is a need for a new focus in school – on science, mathematics and professionalism. Mr President, I would like to The Government's and Left's budget is based on boom, low interest rates and the hope that Sweden will never face a crisis again. It's a risky strategy. The third major task, therefore, is to equip Sweden for the next recession in the economic boom. Then you have to hold on to the money and don't say The government is now pouring praise for itself for the fact that Sweden has changed the deficit of the financial crisis to the surplus of the boom. Just get it! If you don't survive surpluses in good times, you'll never make it. Time and again being surprised by unexpectedly high tax revenues is not a sign of tight fiscal policy, but is exactly what happens in every boom. It's not fiscal policy at all– it's just Excel. In addition, tax revenues usually fall just as quickly once the recession comes. The Alliance government reformed unemployment insurance and health insurance and introduced job tax deductions during the previous boom. The Social Democrats lowered the tax on labour and removed the inheritance and gift tax the last time they ruled. These were structural reforms that produced long-term results. But can anyone point to a single courageous reform that Magdalena Andersson has carried out with the – in itself quite few – budgets that she has both presented and then got through in the Swedish parliament? No, I don't think so. Finally, in Sweden we take great responsibility for poverty, but more must also be involved in building wealth. The fourth major task is therefore about a better view of Swedish distribution policy. Sweden must once again become a country full of class trips, where you can start with two empty hands and get just as far as you want. Children of immigrants should have the same chance as other children to succeed in life. Then more children with immigrant parents must attend preschool and learn really good Swedish. Then the school must have higher expectations of the children who come from vulnerable families. Then more low - educated adults will have to get their very first job, so that more children will then be better off than their parents. There is a tragic red thread between exclusion, dependency, crime and lost hope – between burning cars in the suburbs and burned bridges to the future. Contributors now frustrate the soul of Swedish equality and establish a destructive social heredity instead of inspiring social mobility. This is the wrong way for Sweden. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish economy is doing well right now, but the government ignores the difficulties we have ahead of us. There is a need for a reform agenda that focuses on the really big tasks. There is a need for clear-cut policies on the scale of the problems and concrete reforms that can be crediblely met with the problems we see. We will be well prepared for that task for the elections next autumn. This government needs to be replaced.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-138	Mr President, I would like to There are rapid and major changes in the world around us. Sweden needs to relate to a new President of the United States and to the consequences of Brexit. International cooperation is being put to the test, and we see that authoritarian regimes are growing stronger. We also see an increasingly aggressive Russia, and we have seen terrorist attacks in Sweden. Sweden needs to continue to have the strength to face the concerns created by our surrounding world and the increased insecurity felt by many in everyday life. Sweden should be a safe country. Sweden is one of the world's most competitive countries, and Swedish exports employ almost 1 1⁄2 million people. In this situation, with both Brexit and Trump, we in Sweden need to stand up for free trade and openness and work intensively to defend our export companies' opportunities to continue to operate. At this point, responsibility is required, but cooperation will also be required. I would like to ask Ulf Kristersson why he thinks that the Swedish Democrats in this situation are a good party to cooperate with. What does Ulf Kristersson think that the Swedish Democrats should add to economic policy, trade policy, security policy and foreign policy?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-142	Mr President, I would like to What the Minister of Finance just said is nonsense, and she knows it. It was to the Minister of Finance that I called the day after home from Britain to discuss lessons from the ongoing Brexit process – not to anyone else. I did this because I care what Sweden should do in that process. We do not propose cooperation with the Swedish Democrats. We pointed out the obvious: the Parliament consists of eight parties – do not pretend that the eighth does not exist! What we want to do after the next election is clear: we intend to form a government with the Alliance once we have knocked you out of government. We do not intend to cooperate on vital interests with the Swedish Democrats.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-145	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if this is another message from the Moderates on the issue – in my ears it sounds like that. I have heard Anna Kinberg Batra say that they want to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats and that they want to negotiate with them in the parliamentary committees. Does this mean that the Moderates should not negotiate with the Swedish Democrats in economic policy or in trade policy? Does this mean that you should not cooperate with the Swedish Democrats in tax matters, for example? Is this the message that Ulf Kristersson is giving today?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-147	Mr President, I would like to I usually mention that in Parliament's Committee on Finance we ended up on the same line as the Left Party on some issue relating to cash management in the future. It was nothing that embarrassed me deeply. It is a party with anti-democratic roots, whose basic ideas I do not share. It is a party on which I would never build government power, let alone budgetary power, the Minister for Finance! But I thought it was reasonable to talk to a party whose views we happened to share at the time. No party elected by the Swedish people should be discriminated against in this House, but if you do not know your own values, you can easily walk astray in the outer left wing. We do not wander astray in our values. We will build budgetary and government power on the Alliance – not on anyone else.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-149	Mr President, I would like to Everyone likes to say that they care about the environment and the climate, sometimes even moderate politicians. But rarely are empty words illustrated as clearly as when you read the Moderates' economic policies. It reflects the non-existent environmental policy. The Moderates now seem to be once again advocating an economic policy in the absence of anything other than tax cuts. Now they have also backed up from the high-speed investment. This concerns their own moderate councillors, who see that the Moderates can be perceived as a party that only sees the needs of Stockholm and that hinders development in the rest of the country. An ambitious environmental policy requires action on several levels. Environmental taxes are a tool that has historically proved to be effective. We see, for example, that the tax on heating oil caused people in Sweden to change their energies. We have also seen how the CO2 tax has shown the way for other countries by Sweden having gone ahead. The European Commission's study shows that Sweden is one of the countries with the least environmental tax revenue as a percentage of total tax revenue. The review shows that a great deal pointed to good development in the early 2000s, but that the transition to environmental taxes was lost in strength when the bourgeois government took over. Now this government finally has a series of investigations ready or next n ready, but when we make proposals the answers of the Moderates always seem to be no. Ulf Kristersson has been good at ducking for direct questions that I have asked in previous debates, but with the hope that the stick wins, I ask again: Do the Moderates think it is reasonable that Sweden continues to be among the countries with the lowest share of environmental taxes of its total tax revenues?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-155	Mr President, I would like to Me and the Green Party have this exchange twice a year. You ask the same question every time, and I give about the same answer every time. I think it is a tradition that we can well preserve. I usually point out that unlike the Green Party, the Center Party knows what green tax exchange means, i.e. it lowers taxes on some things and increases taxes on other things. A new division of the economy is being created. You are, in principle, only contributing to increased taxes, which undermines some of the credibility of this tax exchange idea. That is the one thing I usually point out, and I am doing so today as well. The second thing I usually point out is that we are concerned that resources should be used where they are most effective. Therefore, we are sceptical about efforts that only hit Swedish things like Swedish aviation and Swedish car park, and thus only hit the kind of things that are limited here, when the resources could do even more good well used elsewhere. I can use more dry prose from the Financial Policy Council's 2016 report, which came on the occasion of your government's proposal at the time: This is a bad environmental policy. We don't stand for it. I respect the ambitions, but I think you are getting lost in the ambitions to do more here rather than where the benefits would be greatest. I think one example of this is the bonus – Malus system that now seems to be on the way. Many point out that this would mean that people would not be able to switch to new and technology-smarter cars that emit less fuel, and it also strikes an event with precision to the only major car manufacturer that Sweden still has in the Gothenburg area. It is also a poor overall policy for Sweden.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-160	Mr President, I would like to I note that the answers from Ulf Kristersson are the same to my questions, which are also the same. However, I had hoped to be able to get some updated answers. With regard to how good the previous government was at, for example, green tax exchange, the European Commission's review shows that it was not very good at it. The share of environmental taxes in GDP or other measures has not increased and they need to be raised. What Ulf Kristersson does not mention in his statement is that environmental pollution is very expensive and that these costs will increase. Of course, we can continue to stand here and say that we should not do anything else in Sweden than we do in other countries, but we think we are leading completely wrong. We must have predecessors in politics, and we have had that before. If the Moderates do not believe in the impact of environmental taxes, what do you want to do instead of achieving climate and environmental objectives and meeting international commitments for diversity and good living conditions on this planet?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-164	Mr President, I would like to Nobody makes everything perfect. That's what I often say. After eight years of government, you realize in retrospect that you do some things well and other things less well. In the environmental field, many good things happened. In a growing economy, we were able to reduce CO2 emissions by 17%. In a growing economy, we had ten times as much wind power as when we took office in 2006. The number of environmental cars increased 15 times. Things happened all the time. A growing economy, both public and private, created room for people to make wiser choices. I do not doubt your ambitions. However, I seriously doubt the means you use when you doubt the inherent ability of the market economy to allow people to use resources in a new and climate-smarter way. There are plenty of examples of people who want to do this with their personal finances. Do not be fooled by the constant desire of the Social Democrats to increase the tax on everything!
i-d72fea124dd52e05-166	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if Ulf Kristersson noticed how the weather changed when he got up in the speaker's chair. All of a sudden it started snowing. I think even the weather feels that society gets much colder when Moderates speak. That says a lot, I think. Ulf Kristersson mentioned the strength of Sweden and the Swedish model. The Swedish model is that it is the parties who set the salaries. You want to change that. Ulf Kristersson threatened here that he wants to legislate on what salaries should apply in Sweden. We know that economic equality is hardly a moderate parade, and general welfare is always worth less than a tax cut. Working in welfare is very important in terms of the Swedish strength. It is work that is often rewarding and highly appreciated, but it is also extremely tedious and stressful, and it requires a lot of one. I know that, because I've worked in both preschool and care for the elderly myself. I also know how much I appreciate what you're doing there. Today, however, many welfare professions are shortage jobs, and they are very hard and tough working conditions. They are shared tours, there are many times low wages and there are far too few coworkers in many areas of welfare. We have received EUR 10 billion more in increased state subsidies, but despite this, there are major shortcomings. My question to you, Ulf Kristersson, is: Is it not morally reasonable that people like you and I, who earn 63 000 SEK and have about 38 000 SEK left after tax, contribute something more to the common welfare so that we can get more nurses, nurses, nurses and preschool teachers and that they can get higher wages and better working conditions? Is it not morally responsible that those who are in fact very well-off contribute a little more so that the workers of welfare can have better working conditions?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-170	Mr President, I would like to I'm going to leave both the vague amusing and the vomity uncommented. On the other hand, let me answer the question of morality. Is it morally right for the government to take more than half of what a midwife earns by working extra? Is it morally right for the state to take more than half of the income from someone who makes an extra effort to get what they need? In my case, the answer is no. In your case, Ulla Andersson, I am absolutely sure that the answer is yes. Hundred percent would probably have been a low cost in your case. I believe that fiscal policy is about something as fundamental as who is basically the result of my work. Is it myself, with statutory and voluntary obligations to help others who are more difficult than I am, or is it basically the Tax Agency that owns the money so that a budget partner to the government can decide who should take advantage of that money instead of the individual? We simply differ in this matter. More pragmatically, I think it is clear that you are wrong. We've tried your way before. Anyone who is slightly younger than Astrid Lindgren was knows what happens to an immoral tax policy, when you take people's money from them and invest them in things that politics thinks is urgent at the moment. It has devastating consequences. It feeds black work. It feeds tax evasion. It feeds an experience that politics does not do legitimate things. Don't try that way again! You've done it once before.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-174	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that during the time referred to by Ulf Kristersson, we had a higher employment rate and lower unemployment in this country than we have today despite progress. Ulf Kristersson's entire life is financed by taxes. Yield one, your time in preschool, your time in school, your mother's or grandmother's care for the elderly, your need for medical care, the roads you go on, your need for police and so on – all it's financed by taxes. The welfare workers' conditions are also financed by taxes. Then it is quite reasonable that you and I who have 63 000 SEK in income and after tax actually have 38 000 SEK left contribute a little more. 38 000 kroner is much, much more than these welfare workers pay. One assistant nurse has 25 000 kroner, one nurse has about 29 000 kroner and one police officer has 28 000 kroner after six years in the profession. Is it not reasonable, then, that we actually contribute more so that they can get better working conditions and wages? We all depend on their work.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-177	Mr President, I would like to I have never said and I will never say that tax money is not needed and should not be used responsibly. They're doing an incredible amount of good. But all resources are finite. If all our money is spent solely on tax revenue, we have no money left alone. I have never, not once, heard the Left Party say: That is enough. There is the limit to how high the tax burden can be. I haven't heard that one time. There is always a little more tax money to charge and always somewhere to make of that tax money. If we had had low taxes, internationally, it could have been said: Is it not reasonable for us to go from having the lowest taxes in the West to having the normal taxes of the West to finance common things? But that is not the case. We already have very high taxes, internationally. We already have the most likely highest marginal taxes in the free world. Furthermore, we have problems with those very groups that have those marginal taxes. You are never satisfied, Ulla Andersson. No matter how high the taxes are, they should always be raised.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-181	Mr President, I would like to This government and the budget proposal now left on Parliament's table are flawed in a large number of respects. It is my absolute conviction that it does so because it is incapable of seeing fundamental causal relationships. It does not understand the link between conditions, opportunities and incentives for companies to operate in a competitive market and their opportunities to grow and create more jobs. It does not understand the link between people's drive to educate themselves, to further train themselves, to move from subsidies to labour and the tax burden that affects them if they do. Nor does it understand the link between the driving forces of entrepreneurs to grow their businesses, people's drive to work and support themselves and the total resources available to us politicians, not only to maintain but also to further develop a strong welfare state. If you do not understand these links, it is not only possible but most likely that you land in wrong political conclusions. Let's take an example and talk about policemen! All of a sudden, there seems to be very strong support in this House for the line that the Swedish Democrats have been pursuing for many years, namely the need for more police officers. In this situation, the Minister of Finance says that there is no room for wage increases or other efforts to improve the working conditions of the country's police officers. The money that exists is to be used to educate more people. At the same time, it is police officers who leave the profession precisely because of poor working conditions and, of course, because of a grotesquely incompetent police management. This police line is kept under the arms only as a result of the correct colour of the party book, a particularly red one. Then not all training places in the world will help to remedy the problem. In addition, if you as a police officer are not allowed to see your family, your children, during the bright hours of the day and if you are expected to risk your physical security as soon as you are on duty, you should be paid accordingly. Let's talk about nurses, or even more about the lack of nurses! We all agree on that. But consensus also ends there. Of course we can train more nurses. I think we should do the same. But how does it help health care here and now, today? The answer is: not at all. At the same time, we know that over 9 000 trained, more or less experienced, nurses work with something quite different. This does not include all those who continue to work in the profession but elsewhere, not least in Norway. We know why they leave; they have been asked. They have not left because they have suddenly found out that they have taken the wrong path in life or have started to burn for something completely different. It has left, depending on poor working conditions. These include working hours, stress, strain, the ability to influence one's own situation and poor wage development. They are about being able to eat their lunch in some peace and quiet or such a fundamental thing as being able to go to the bathroom at all. We can educate, educate and educate a little more. But if those who train do not remain in the profession, we are simply still where we are. But there are solutions to this. To find them, however, one has to understand the connections and get to understand certain things. You have to understand that staff is something you have to borrow. They're not serfs. Thank God. Staff remain just as long as they feel they are fulfilling a function, receive reasonable remuneration for the work they are doing, are not faced with the choice between career and family, have the opportunity to grow in their workplace, further train themselves and as long as the stress level is manageable. It should not necessarily be low, but manageable. Of course it's not free, on the contrary. But it's worth it. And it is not a small gesture, at least not just, to show appreciation for all those who are working hard in public service. It is a question of maintaining at least a basic level of welfare. The alternative cost, i.e. not to invest properly in civil servants, is significantly higher. Believe me! The Swedish Democrats will focus a lot on the public employees in our budget exercise, not least those who work in the healthcare and care professions. When it comes to healthcare, Sweden is very far ahead in many respects, except in the most important. It is, of course, about accessibility. What does it matter that we have a well-developed health insurance, perhaps the world's best and foremost doctor and the world's best machines if the patient is stuck in a care queue? Accessibility is about the number of care places. Sweden has my number of care places per capita throughout Europe. And the number of care places is determined by how much qualified staff we have. Accessibility in health care starts and ends with the staff. Swedish people's confidence in the public, publicly funded healthcare system has decreased. This has resulted, among other things, in many choosing to obtain private health insurance. The government parties, together with the Communist Party, now want to put an end to this, by making such solutions more difficult and taxable in various ways. To them today I have a clear and clear message: you will not have my support for this. You will not have the support of the Swedish Democrats for this. That is why, hopefully, you will not have Parliament's support for this either. Point. If you see it as a problem that more and more people – private individuals, small businesses and even larger employers – choose to take out private health insurance, there is a very simple solution to the problem. You simply remove the demand for them. This is done by ensuring that public health insurance meets the demand that exists. And this is done by coming to the realization that you need to invest significantly more strongly in the employees we have in health care. We'll bet on that. And we would rather do that together with other parties. Mr President, I would like to The current government demonstrates an almost abnormal creative capacity in terms of new ways of increasing the tax burden. The tax rate is increased for a great many wage earners because they are thought to be high wage earners. But now think of a fairly common household with, say, two children and two adults. One parent may work part-time because the children are still small. The other parent works as principal, midwife, miner, police or electrician. They have between SEK 2 million and SEK 3 million in residential loans, on which interest and amortisation must be paid each month. Do you think that household sees itself as a high-income household? No, they don't. They're not. But the government has decided that they are, and so charges one of the parents with an arginal tax of 50 percent – 50 percent. It is clear that those who earn really well should also pay a little more in tax. I don't have a problem with that. My problem is that this government has a completely bizarre view of when a household, an ordinary household, becomes one with the government's eyes high-income households. The government punishes ordinary, hard-working employees. The government is talking about airline tax, mileage tax, chemical tax, entrepreneurial tax and so on. Just taste the latter – a special tax for entrepreneurs, that is, precisely for those who start up new businesses, who run small businesses and thereby create new jobs. Mr President, I would like to A rather good illustration was made recently that I read about in a newspaper. The government sees the Swedish people in the same way as the old Vikings saw the pig Sarimner in Oden's hall, in Valhall. It could be slaughtered in the evening, yet it was resurrected the next day. It would have been good if it had been, but unfortunately it does not work this way, at least not here in the earth.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-203	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats went to elections that it was unacceptable for tax money to go to health care, school and care instead to share dividends. But after a couple of dinners with the lobby company Kreab, yes, then they had a completely different opinion – an opinion that, incidentally, went home better with the Moderates. Now the Swedish Democrats, together with Anna Kinberg Batra, the Moderates, want to secure the venture capitalists' continued profits that they earn from our school children. For Oscar Sjöstedt, it is one thing what you promise in the election campaign, but a completely different thing what you do after the election. For me, it is simple: In my Sweden, tax money will go to the businesses for which it is intended, not to venture capitalists. In my Sweden, children should not be placed on the street because the school no longer makes profits. In my Sweden, we are making joint investments to ensure that all students reach the knowledge goals in safe and equal schools. But the Swedish democrats fail the Swedish school children time and again. They want to save 10 billion in municipalities. Then my question to Oscar Sjöstedt is: How many teachers too many does Oscar Sjöstedt think there are in the municipalities all over Sweden? And above all, why do the Swedish Democrats stand up for the right of venture capitalists to profit rather than for our school children's right to knowledge?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-207	Mr President, I would like to It is worrying and strange if the Minister of Finance is not able to read a rather simple budget motion. It's not very simple, but a finance minister should be able to read it. But get in touch with me, and I'll teach the Minister of Finance to read our budget bill. That's just bullshit. This with cuts in municipalities and county councils is not true. There is no such proposal. I'll take the budget bill with me next time, and we'll have to look at it together. The Swedish Democrats went to elections to maintain freedom of choice in welfare. We believe that freedom of choice has its own value. We're not socialists. We do not want a public monopoly. We believe that citizens should have the right and the opportunity to choose for themselves. If freedom of choice and quality are set against each other, most voters and even the voters of the Social Democrats say that the important thing is the quality requirements, not the removal of free schools. That's where we're supposed to work really hard, but not by removing freedom of choice. There is an intrinsic value in freedom of choice. We are not socialists, nor will we be. Almost all parties' sympathizers – there is an exception – say the same thing: The important thing is not to get rid of free schools, the important thing is high quality standards. It's number one. Even the voters of the Social Democrats think so, and that is what we are pushing.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-212	Mr President, I would like to No one wants to take away the freedom of choice. There are great opportunities for both parents and children to choose between different schools and different educational orientations. The question is whether our tax money should go to these schools... or to big profits. I do not claim in any way that the Swedish Democrats are socialists. However, I refer to what the Swedish Democrats said before the elections to their voters in a motion, since they were not socialists either. They wrote: We will follow the Nordic countries. Freeschools are not supposed to make a profit. You wrote that it is unreasonable for tax funds to be taken out of business and for tax funds to be used to improve quality, not to be distributed as profits. That was the message to the voters before the elections. Why have you changed your mind now and instead stand up for the right of venture capitalists to profit, rather than for the right of schoolchildren to know? Why have the Swedish Democrats changed their minds? Is it because of some dinners with PR agencies in Stockholm or what has happened? Why does the promise to the voters no longer matter?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-216	Mr President, I would like to I haven't had a single dinner with any PR agency here in Stockholm. Can we stop this nonsense now? Get out of the sandbox! Now the Minister of Finance says two things at the same time. The Social Democrats also want freedom of choice. To be honest: The Reepalu investigation that was set up as a direct concession to the Communist Party to receive support, not least in the budget votes, is perfectly designed to put an end to freedom of choice, for all private elements of welfare activities. Take that Reepalu investigation and throw it in the round archive! It will not pass through this Chamber, I will see to that. It is a concession to the Communist Party for there to be a public alternative. Citizens should have no choice. I won't buy it. It won't happen, note on my watch.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-219	Mr President, I would like to There is a clear pattern in Oscar Sjöstedt's rhetorical posts. Every time he gets cornered, he's using ruling techniques. I hope there will be an end to it. Instead, 5 billion people who would have gone to health care, education and care went to dividends, group contributions or interest rates. That corresponds to the salary of 10,000 nurses. Oscar Sjöstedt says that the conditions for the employees in the health care system are favourable. Then he could have taken the 5 billion and given 10,000 nurses a higher salary. I was going to bring this up with taxes and the theory behind the job tax deduction. This theory is about putting downward pressure on wages, that is to say, against what Oscar Sjöstedt talked about in the speaker's chair when he said he wanted to raise wages. But the theory behind the job tax deduction is also about the sick and unemployed paying higher taxes on equal income. Nurses, midwives, nurses and preschool teachers who work very hard and literally carry welfare on their shoulders work so hard that they get sick. With the views of Oscar Sjöstedt and the Swedish Democrats, it is quite reasonable that they should pay higher taxes when they get sick. This also applies to the industrial or construction worker who loses his job because of the closure of factories or because of lack of work. Then you have to pay higher taxes. Why, Oscar Sjöstedt? Why should the sick and the unemployed pay higher taxes on equal income? At an income as low as SEK 11,000, they will pay SEK 1 000 more in tax with your policy. Why?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-224	Mr President, I would like to The SEK 5 billion are only available in one world to enable Ulla Andersson to use them in other ways. They only exist in a world of 100% corporation tax. It's kind of not money that you can just go in and take. Let's talk about the job tax deduction. It's really interesting. The whole idea is to increase the drive to work. It is true that it puts pressure, perhaps not downwards, but not as much pressure on wage formation. I don't know, but it's an effect of the job tax deduction. However, employees are reasonably primarily interested in their net earnings, not in their gross earnings. Surely you would rather have a higher net wage, because you still pay so much tax on higher wages. Of course it has that effect. It is the Left Party, together with the government parties, that have budgetary cooperation. If you think it's a big problem, you can stop it. It would not, of course, pass through this House, but I have not seen any initiatives from either the government or its cooperation parties going in that direction. I think you should have very strong protection in the event that you become unemployed, of course. But it can't last forever. I believe in a model that combines strong insurance cover on the one hand and continued incentives to go back to work on the other. You should have a generous ceiling in the unemployment fund, but for a limited period of time. Then you can combine the best of two worlds. This model advocates the Swedish Democrats, and it has not least very strong support in economic research. I believe in it.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-229	Mr President, I would like to It was the Swedish Tax Agency's report that stated that you, me and everyone else in this country have paid 5 billion in tax to care, care and school, which instead went to dividends, interest and group contributions – 5 billion. What employees are primarily interested in is, of course, doing good work and contributing to society but also getting paid for their work. If you put a downward pressure on wages, it will be more for the owner and the company. It goes without saying that you want to be paid for your job, especially if it is an important job such as the work of a nurse, preschool teacher or construction worker. Of course you should be paid for your work. What Oscar Sjöstedt wants is a penalty tax. Oscar Sjöstedt thinks it is perfectly reasonable that if you work in our country so that you get sick you should also pay higher taxes. The Left Party and the Government have now agreed that the tax should be reduced for those who have sickness benefits, which is quite reasonable. Why should you tax the sick and the unemployed, Oscar Sjöstedt? Do you have anything against these social groups?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-232	Mr President, I would like to It's almost a little ridiculous. It is not a question of criminal taxation. The point of the job tax deduction is that it should stimulate work. Ulla Andersson must learn to separate gross and net wages. There is no downward pressure on the net wage if you get reduced tax, quite the opposite. You get to keep more of your salary. You go up in net wages. It is quite central to keep these understandings separate. And that's not really advanced either. Let's get back to welfare. I don't believe in any kind of wild west in welfare and that anyone will have to operate. I want a very strict and clear regulatory framework in place for all actors, even if the actor is the local municipality or county council. This applies to all actors, both public and private. There are also other forms, such as parent cooperatives, foundations and perhaps some other variant. The requirements must be strict both in terms of authorisation in the authorisation process and penalties in the supervisory review if one fails to behave.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-235	Mr President, I would like to I listened with interest to Oscar Sjöstedt's speech on, among other things, skills shortages in healthcare. The Swedish democrats sometimes claim to protect the elderly in society. For both of these reasons, I find it surprising that the Swedish Democrats are now embracing one of the most remarkable and worst reforms in the government, namely the introduction of a special wage tax for older workers. If you read the Swedish Democrats' budget motion, you can see that it is clear that they support the Government's proposal for a special wage tax for the elderly over 65 who work. It is an extra tax if you hire older people, and it did not exist before 2015. This is particularly serious when many businesses, such as the police, health care and social services, need to retain older experienced employees for a few more years. Instead, you spend a penalty tax if you do. This is hitting our elderly, against the economy and against the important activities of welfare. It also pushes out older people who want to contribute to old-age pension. What is this like to protect the skills needs of healthcare? How is this to protect our elderly, Oscar Sjöstedt?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-239	Mr President, I would like to I do not know how many times I myself have criticised the special wage tax, but it is in any case numerous times. It is clear that we should not tax the elderly who choose to remain in the labour market, on the contrary. As politicians, journalists and others often ask: What retirement age do you want? Do you want to raise your retirement age? Or maybe lower it? After all, there is not a single retirement age, but there are plenty of retirement ages. I think that is where we need to go, that is, towards a more flexible system. People will want to retire both a little sooner and a little later. Then the carrots must of course be there. Of course, we should not penalise older people for choosing to remain in the labour market when they are 65-plus. If they want to, if they can, of course they should. If anything, perhaps we should stimulate this in some way instead. I have criticised this many times. It is strange that Jakob Forssmed has missed it. But I do it one more time: I think it was wrong for the government to do what they did. This is not good. We in this House can decide to raise the retirement age by this or so much and thus solve various problems. But it's better to do it with carrots than with whips. We can say: You do not need to retire later, but if you want, you are welcome to stay in the labour market for one, two or even three years. I believe that this is a prerequisite for the financial sustainability of the old-age pension system that we now have. However, I do not believe that the current old-age pension system is financially viable. We need to figure out something smart. This applies above all to the generation that I myself belong to. For us it will not be financially sustainable.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-246	Mr President, I would like to I'm a little confused by the answer. I share the view that the government has carried out a very strange reform. People are being pushed out who want to contribute in not least the important activities of welfare. It is about doctors, police officers and nurses that it is now becoming more expensive for municipalities and county councils to hire. This also applies to private companies. But, Oscar Sjöstedt, it costs money to go against the government's proposal. You are investing SEK 0 in your budget option to go against the special payroll tax introduced by the government. This means that you are not going against this reform. You are not prioritising this in your budget exercise. The imposition of a penalty tax on the employment of older people is a serious blow if you are to meet the challenges of well-being and the provision of skills in healthcare. It sounds as if Oscar Sjöstedt agrees with this, but his budget options are invested SEK 0.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-249	Mr President, I would like to I was somewhat confused by the question, which is perhaps why the answer was also somewhat confused. I apologise for this to Mr Forssmed. My genuine view is that we absolutely should not have criminal taxation on the elderly who are 65-plus and who choose to remain on the labour market voluntarily. If I may think freely in this House, I think we can even find a model with lower taxes for low incomes. For various reasons, older people may not want to work just as much, precisely because they are older. It does not have to be, however, but it can be. If you go down in working hours and choose to work 75, 50 or 25 per cent you will of course get a much lower income. If we then have very low taxes on low incomes, people are encouraged to stay at least part-time. This could be a forward model, which we might be able to work with together and figure out something smart about.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-253	Mr President, I would like to I have said it before, and I will say it again: the climate is the great destiny of our time. We see the poles melting and world temperatures rising. We see the consequences of climate change when people are forced to escape drought and famine. We see in the northern parts of our own country that in some places the snow period has been shortened by more than two months. Municipalities and county councils around Sweden are sounding the alarm about how water scarcity risks breaking out important industries. I and the Green Party will never stand by and watch our common home run the risk of being destroyed when we could have done something about it. Responsibility is not on anyone else far into the future. Responsibility is ours, and leadership is now needed. Many speak warmly for Sweden to have a climate and environmental policy that is at the forefront, but it is first with this government that there has been concrete action of these words. It becomes clear when we have a historic environmental budget. At the same time, more is to be expected. Sweden is to be readjusted in order to reduce emissions in the transport sector. We are now making sure that the aircraft is involved in carrying their climate costs. We are introducing a system to reward the purchase of environmental cars while at the same time increasing the cost of emission-intensive cars. We support the development of the necessary infrastructure for electric cars and develop our cities for improved public transport and more and better cycle paths. We also see that the desire to contribute to reducing emissions is great around Sweden. The government's efforts in the climate economy, which in this budget adds half a billion, are clear proof of that. With the help of investment support, companies and municipalities change by energy-efficientising, expanding biogas production and arranging charging points, so that it becomes easier to use electric cars. The urban environment agreements link the development of sustainable cities to the climate challenge and create double benefits when new public transport is planned together with housing. Mr President, I would like to Social sustainability must be safeguarded and developed. The prerequisites for success should not be determined by the parents' educational background. All schools should be good schools. That's why the government spends half a billion in 2017 on an equality grant for schools with tough conditions. We are also increasing resources for young people's mental health. We lower taxes on pensioners and invest money in strengthening maternity care. It provides security and strengthens the welfare that we hold high in Sweden. Equally crucial is that the conditions for people to make their dreams come true are good. Small companies create jobs and provide services throughout Sweden, especially in rural areas. Therefore, I am very pleased that this spring the government has presented a tax discount to one-man companies that want to hire their first employee. It creates jobs that give meaning to the everyday life of the individual, and it creates value for society at large. Mr President, I would like to It is almost three years since this government took office. When we took over, we saw rising unemployment, falling school results, large deficits in public finances and a climate policy on the downside. Together with our colleagues in the government, we have worked hard to reverse this development through our common sustainable community building, which is modernising Sweden. The results of that work are now becoming apparent. School results are beginning to turn up. More people have a job to go to. The state finances are strengthened with surpluses after many years of bourgeois pervasiveness. The pace of the green changeover is increasing. We also ensure stability and long-term sustainability through cross-block agreements on defence, energy policy, climate and measures to improve the establishment of new arrivals. It strengthens Sweden. Finally, I would like to say a few words related to the heinous deed that struck Stockholm. It was an attack on our democracy and the open society that we stand for. My thoughts very often go to those who died and their relatives. But we will never allow terror to prevail over community. The Green Party will continue to be a constructive force in the fight against terror. My hope is that we will have broad agreement in this House on the way forward. Economic policy is not just a matter of wallets. It is a question of what society we want, a question of justice and equality. It is a question of our children's future and of what world we leave behind. This perspective is clear in the government's economic policy, and it strengthens Sweden in both the short and long term.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-263	Mr President, I would like to When Janine Alm Ericson and I replicate each other, we don't often nerd ourselves into any aspect of environmental policy and throw out figures, budget lines and percentages back and forth. It's usually so much fun that I thought we'd do it one more time. I would like to talk about the government's proposal for a bonus – the Malus system. It is good that we have tried to take a step in this direction. We've been trying to lie down for a long time. Just a few weeks before the government came up with its proposal, we presented an idea that we call a green car bonus. The basic idea is partly similar. We proposed a bonus of 100 000 SEK for the most climate-smart cars. This would be financed by a penalty tax on new purchases of really bad cars. The government's proposal is similar on the bonus page. You want to give a penny, 45 000 kroner instead of our 100 000, to those who buy the really good cars. But when it comes to funding, we have chosen different paths. In our proposal, we fix the financing through a penalty tax on new purchases. When you buy a new car that is bad for the environment in the future, you have to pay a penalty tax that finances the system. Instead, the government's funding is based on smudging this out on all cars, including those already bought. Not infrequently this hits families with children who have bought combined cars from a West Swedish vehicle manufacturer. You are punished for decisions you have already taken and that cannot be changed. Isn't this system, Janine Alm Ericson, about stimulating better decisions in the future? In what way do we solve the climate crisis by punishing decisions already taken, not least by Swedish families with children? Wouldn't it be wiser to impose punishment on future car purchases?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-266	Mr President, I would like to It is very good when we discuss the environmental proposals in the government budget and the Center Party proposals. I have said this before and will say it again: the more environmental and climate issues are debated in this House, the better, because then we have a chance to achieve the goals we have set ourselves. When it comes to bonuses – the Malus system, as it has been called in the debate so far, we have previously agreed. We need to have a system that rewards environmentally good cars and ensures that they do not get less environmentally good cars. Both the Green Party and the Center Party have very often and in many debates repeatedly talked about a working bonus – the Malus system. Now the government is making such a proposal, where there are clear incentives. The environmentally good cars should be better for the wallet, and those that are environmentally bad should be worse. This is how we move towards a more sustainable transport system. But this doesn't welcome the Center Party. We have discovered that very clearly. You can say that it is good to be able to give more bonuses to those who do good things. But we also see that there are some problems with the Center Party's proposals. The first is that it is not self-financing but requires that you take money from other parts of the budget. The second problem, which is perhaps even greater, is that it seems that the system is not EU-compatible but involves state aid and will therefore not be liked. That is something that we have had problems with with other environmental proposals that we have wanted to put forward in this House and for which the Center Party has been very quick to criticise us. I would like more bonus for environmentally good cars, but it must be done in a sustainable way. The government has now presented a way in which this can act as the stimulus it is supposed to be.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-270	Mr President, I would like to I am a little worried if the arguments against the solution we presented are based on misunderstandings or pure errors. It is not true that our proposal is not funded. On the contrary, in a responsible spirit, it is a little over-funded, precisely to remove any gökungar in that part of the budget. Our proposal is forward-looking. It controls behaviour on the good side by giving a substantial bonus to those who make wise decisions, while also controlling purchasing decisions on the slightly more negative side. What the government and the Green Party are doing now is sneaking out this funding over all the cars. This also applies to families with children who have already bought a car and have made major investment decisions on completely incorrect premises. It's a crazy environmental policy.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-271	Mr President, I would like to I think we will have to come back to these different parts. The Centre Party can then show how the proposal is to be financed and that it can actually be implemented. Such proposals are easy to put forward, but then they need to be kept and made possible. The government's proposal is extremely clear. Those cars that are worse for the environment get a malus, and those that are good for the environment get a bonus. That is exactly what we have been talking about for years in this House. I find it remarkable that the Center Party is now criticising this outcome rather than welcoming it.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-273	Mr President, I would like to In this House, we very often talk about how money is to be distributed. We very rarely talk about how money and resources are created. My ideological starting point is that it is not we politicians that are creating new jobs, but it is small businesses and entrepreneurs around our country that make sure that we employ more and that more companies are created that build Sweden strongly. The Green Party is part of a government in which the Minister of Finance regards small business as tax planners and potential tax fraudsters. The Green Party has historically spoken about small businesses. But in the budget that is now on Parliament's table, we see substantial tax increases on entrepreneurs and small businesses. We are talking about the entrepreneurial tax, which means a tax increase of several billion SEK. We are talking about tax increases for many small businesses who have health insurance that is now getting increased taxation. It shows how the Green Party in recent years becomes more red than green and talks less about entrepreneurship and more about the public sector always creating jobs. From the Liberals' side, we want to see a reform agenda dealing with more small entrepreneurs, where it will be easier to start up a business and, above all, easier to run a business and hire as an entrepreneur. This is not to increase the taxation of small businesses, but to see small businesses as the heroes of society who hire people. Now the government is moving forward with strong tax increases on small businesses. My question is: when did the Green Party stop caring about small businesses, and how does it get more jobs if smaller companies pay more tax?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-278	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to agree with Mats Persson that entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises are extremely important for Sweden's development and that they should have good conditions. On the other hand, I do not agree with the picture that is being painted that we should now only increase taxes and thus kill Swedish business. What Mats Persson calls the Entrepreneurial Tax I guess is the amended 3:12 rules. It is a much more boring name that may sometimes be a bit complicated to explain. There we saw that the investigation proposal that was put forward hit the smaller companies too hard. Therefore, the government made changes to the proposal. It is about balancing the way in which income from services should be taxed, because you should of course charge a salary when you have a company that you work in, but also income from capital because there is a big difference between it. The government has now put forward a proposal in which we feel that we are well placed between continuing to support companies that are entrepreneurs and push forward but perhaps not having it as a tax that makes it easier to plan tax for those who are already high-income earners. I'd like to say that there. Then there are other tax proposals put forward by the Green Party and the government. For example, we have growth support that we are now expanding, where companies should be able to hire their very first employee. We think that's a very important step. We have made changes on different parts with an expanded RUT that contributes to more durability when you can repair your appliances and fix your shoes and clothes. We also have reduced VAT on nature guides, which are also a good way to increase entrepreneurship in rural areas.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-284	Mr President, I would like to With all due respect for reduced VAT for nature guides, I do not think that this is what small businesses around Sweden think about in the evenings when they are thinking about how they will get their calculations together so that tomorrow too can retain the employees they have today and tomorrow be able to hire more people. With all due respect for the smaller tax cuts proposed by the government, it is several billion-dollar tax increases that are now being imposed on small businesses. It is entrepreneurial tax and extra tax for those who have health insurance to take two examples and not least the taxes we have seen historically in recent years. To this is added a special airline tax on those who do not live in Stockholm but near an airport around the country and who have no alternative and are now forced to get a higher cost when their employees are going to move around our elongated country. In what way will there be more jobs when you now raise taxes for small businesses around Sweden?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-287	Mr President, I would like to Small and medium-sized enterprises are very important. It is very good that we bear in mind that they exist in very many different sectors. They're not just in the big city. Now it felt like Mats Persson rallied a bit over that we create space for entrepreneurs to hire and get better finances in their companies that are not located in the Stockholm region when it comes to nature guides. We need to look at those questions widely. There is another proposal which has been raised and which has been widely debated. Sometimes we have a lot of intensity in some discussions, and then they are forgotten. It's about the employee options. There we have now made improvements to make it easier for companies to attract and retain skills. There's a lot. We have the investigation that strengthened the tourism industry. I've already indicated that you're going to grow your support. It should be easier for companies to obtain, for example, government venture capital. These are the elements that companies often show are important for their development.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-291	Mr President, I would like to Some say that the Green Party does not have an impact on government policy and that it has had to go on point after point. It's actually wrong. Unfortunately, in billions wasted, environmentalist ministers have a disproportionate impact. I am thinking, then, of the over 5 billion in construction subsidies that are being poured out mainly on construction companies. It is construction companies who themselves do not believe that the reform leads to more housing but who of course gladly accept the money. As a result of low interest rates, high demand, the Alliance's construction reforms but also that the government has done a lot of good things now. Boverket believes that, in the first place, it is capacity, and not demand, which today constitutes the main restriction on housing construction. This in turn drives up the price of tenders. ..................................................... In this situation, when there is a shortage of capacity, when there is full construction and when funding is available, the Green Party continues to pour tax billions into the construction market. It drives up prices even more for all construction projects: villas, flats, rentals, preschools, schools and roads. It also helps to raise the prices of existing dwellings. My question is: are these 5 billion not doing better elsewhere than in the pockets of already profitable construction companies? It can be things like not raising taxes on jobs, raising housing allowances to pensioners, or if more money in the wallet for individuals is problematically more money for the police or the care. Do something unexpected. Re-examine the policy and say: At this point, we are withdrawing the building subsidies and spending the money on other things. That would be a very good news from Janine Alm Ericson here today.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-297	Mr President, I would like to I am also pleased that we are talking about housing policy here and housing reforms. We see today that one of the biggest problems that the international assessors point out to Sweden is the threat of a housing bubble. It is increasingly urgent the smaller the supply is in any case. People must have an opportunity to live and afford to live somewhere. Jakob Forssmed points out several different reasons and focuses most on the fantastic housing policy that the alliance government had. It didn't create so many more homes. It is now that we see an increase in housing construction, and it is increasing considerably. As the Minister of Finance said earlier in the debate, it is increasing more than anyone had ever thought. That, of course, depends on a number of different things. This is due, among other things, to the capacity-enhancing 22-point programme that was developed in connection with our dialogue on housing policy and which the bourgeois parties chose to leave. I'm glad we do a lot of things. I am glad that we agree that we should do a lot on this issue. It also reduces Sweden's risks to the future when it comes to the risks that the housing market can expose us to.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-301	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the Alliance's housing policy contributed to this. This applies to all the investigations that we set up and some reforms that we did not have time to carry out and that you have now had the chance to carry out, and you have added a few further building blocks. They're too small, but they're there. All this has been good, and it has led to the increased construction that we now see. My question, however, was about what happens when we are limited by the building capacity – when Boverket now says that tender prices are being pushed up in schools, preschools, apartment buildings, villas, tenant-owners' rights and roads. Then you'll be pouring 5 billion into subsidies to the construction companies. That's what I'm wondering. Why do you not reconsider this policy at this stage? You should say: now we have reached the capacity ceiling, so now we are spending this EUR 5 billion on more police and better health care, or why not on reduced tax on labour? That is my question.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-303	Mr President, I would like to Then we will come back to the same discussion we had earlier. There is no exact science as to what is the chicken and the egg at this point. The housing subsidies have been criticized by the bourgeoisie for a long time, but we still see that with them in the back it is built. Rental apartments are being built, small rental apartments are being built and climate-smart housing is being built. We think that is extremely important. Then, of course, there are always different priorities that can be made with money that the government puts in the budget bill. We have made the assessment that the housing shortage has been acute since the Alliance's eight years in government and that we therefore now need to make effective efforts. However, I must say that I also agree with Jakob Forssmed that the capacity shortage is a major problem, and there are also measures in the 22-point programme.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-305	Mr President, I would like to Sweden stands on top of a wasted boom. For a number of years, the Swedish economy has gone well. The Swedish economy has gone significantly better than most comparable countries in Europe, and this is obviously positive for all of us who live, work and want to realize our life dreams in our country. We can talk about why Sweden is doing well for a long time. I personally believe that this is a combination of sensible reforms, perhaps especially those made by the Center Party and the Social Democrats after the 1990s crisis. It is about the Alliance's wise reforms in order for more people to get a job to go to and about substantially reduced taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship combined with a relatively strong global economy where talented Swedish small and large companies work, sell, invest and earn money. The question is, what do we do with the good times? The question is how we cream out of the maximum effect of the boom that we all know will end sooner or later. Most assessors, including the government's own forecasts, say that the good times are beginning to fade a little over the coming years. Then we need to look at our house, and then we need to feel that we did what we could in the good times to equip ourselves for the worse. Unfortunately, I can see that on the most central issues and points of the Swedish economy, the government and this Parliament have done far too little. The Swedish labour market and the housing market must be fundamentally reformed. There must be new ways into the community and new ways to get into their first work, to get their first line on the CV and to make their first effort. The first job is the most important thing. It has been a long time since the Swedish housing market in many ways stopped working. The housing market is a chimare with neither housing nor market in much of our country. These are both large and small towns. In my home county of Västernorrland I can see that both in central Sundsvall and in towns such as Kramfors and Sollefteå we have a housing shortage. We can also note that the Swedish tax system is moving towards an increasing need for reform. The Center Party, the bourgeoisie and many actors have for a long time emphasized the impracticality of having too high taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. It is about everything from practical arguments such as that excessive taxes dampen job creation to more almost moral arguments such as that one deserves a greater share of the fruits of one's own work and that it is therefore right to lower taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. We can see that the development of digitalisation and automation is making us more and more right in this. In a situation and in an economy where more and more hours worked, more and more jobs and more and more jobs are on the way or at risk of being automated, digitised and robotised, it is increasingly unwise to have among the highest taxes in the world on jobs and entrepreneurship. We must equip Sweden strongly. We must do what we can to ensure that the good times we are experiencing right now continue into the future and that we experience new years and decades of Swedish success and Swedish prosperity. Mr President, I would like to We, and the government, are currently doing far too little to deserve Swedish future success. Mr President, I would like to This is an uncertain situation in the world. Few of us had expected the president who was elected to the White House. Few of us had expected that it was these two candidates, Emmanuel Macron and Marine Le Pen, who would be the top candidates for the French presidential post. Few of us expected that it was during this debate that Britain's Prime Minister would call for new elections. Who knows where it'll lead? It is a more difficult and difficult to analyse situation than it has been for a long time in the world economy and in world politics. But this only reinforces the need to do homework here at home. It is about what we can influence: how our own labour market works, how our own tax system works and how our own housing market works. These are basically Swedish problems with Swedish solutions – simply things we can actually influence. A wise government and a wise parliamentary majority make sure to pick the low-hanging fruits and make the improvements and changes that Sweden needs and that we can influence. There are many other anxiety clouds out there that we can influence very little, but let us do the homework that we can do. Mr President, I would like to One of these homeworkes is to review and strengthen Swedish security. It is now clear to more and more people that it was a mistake to so sharply reduce the total defense to the extent that was done in the 1990s. It is now clear to more and more people that the judiciary needs substantial additions in terms of more resources and more staff, both civilian and uniformed. In addition, those who work in these sectors need to get a little more into the pay envelope and a little more appreciation from their employers. Sweden has one of the world's highest tax pressures. At the same time, we spend less than the vast majority of them on the absolute core tasks of this state – things that absolutely must not fall at all. Everything else is the same, in every situation, there are some things that citizens have legitimate demands on when it comes to their always functioning. It's about police and defense. These aspects of our security are a promise we will never fail. For those who feel insecure, confidence in the future is often the first to give way. Sweden cannot be a country where we promise everything for everyone, but what we promise we will also keep. The promise that the real core of the state's data will deliver is a promise that must never be let down. Last Friday's terrorist attacks in central Stockholm show them that we have police officers of absolute world class running towards the direction of danger to protect the rest of us. These officers deserve all the appreciation they can get. They deserve more colleagues than they do today, and they deserve more in the pay envelope. It is good that the government is taking steps in this direction. But it is too late, and much more is needed for these core tasks of the state. Mr President, I would like to We must not allow Sweden to split. We see a regional split between cities and rural areas. We see a cleavage that also runs between the inner cities and the suburbs. We see the split labour market where there are ever greater differences between those on the inside and those who have not yet got a foot in. Soon 80 per cent of the unemployed in Sweden are in something that statistics call vulnerable groups. We see the cleavage between digital inside and digital alienation. We see a lot of cleavage, but I would argue that the most important cleavage to take hold of and break in Sweden is between those who have hope and faith in the future and those who do not. We simply need a fairer distribution, hope and faith in the future in our country. Sweden needs political forces that take sides for the hopeful ones and ensure that more people can expect to feel hope, confidence in the future and the drive that makes you study an education, work extra, start a business or dare to take an employment. Sweden needs political forces that take sides for the hopeful. The Center Party has the ambition to be the political force that ensures that Sweden becomes the country where diligence always pays off and where you feel good opportunities to implement the business idea and realize your dreams. No one benefits from the fact that entire population groups, whole areas in Sweden, feel that the development is not for them. No one benefits from excessive taxes on diligence, self-employment or employment. No one benefits from the fact that infrastructure and public services in large parts of Sweden go back and do not enjoy the trust of citizens. No one benefits from the current split of Sweden, which the government does too little to meet. The budget that has been presented today is one in a series of budgets that does not address Sweden's major challenges for the future. The Center Party and the Alliance will draw a counter-image against this, and most recently in the 2018 elections we will take the big job of steering our country on a better path.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-326	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Immigration Service's latest report predicts that the number of next of kin immigrants to Sweden will amount to more than 300 000 individuals by 2020. It is not a giant secret what the Swedish Democrats think about this. It's no secret what the Center Party's opinion is. In any case, I and Mr Källström are perhaps diametrically opposed to this issue. But my question is not primarily about this. We simply disagree on the question of whether it should be a restrictive and Swedish democratic immigration policy or whether it should be a liberal and centre-party immigration policy. But I imagine somewhere that we agree that, regardless of the line that will be taken, there is no intrinsic value in that policy should cost as much money as possible. Is the Center Party prepared to come forward with proposals for reforms which in some way restrict the right of non-citizens to and access to tax-funded public welfare? If so, how? If no, how do you plan to manage the funding?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-329	Mr President, I would like to I advise Oscar Sjöstedt to read one of the Center Party's budget movements from the past few years or one of our many games on the theme. There is in no way an intrinsic value in that migration and integration policies should cost too much money. On the contrary! A really successful policy makes sure to strengthen Sweden. The more people who work and make an effort and see Sweden as the place on earth where you can realize your business idea, where you can work hard to provide yourself and your children with food on the table and so on, the stronger and better our country becomes. Then it is important to have systems that lead in that direction. That is not the case. We have presented a wide range of proposals on how migration and integration policies can be cheaper. It has a bearing on parental insurance, pensions, how expensive and bad today's integration policy is or how long it takes before you can take a job. At present, you must actively apply for permission to work when you come to Sweden. On the contrary, it should be normal. The Center Party has presented a wide range of proposals. In some budgets we have presented the greatest savings on Sweden's too expensive and poor integration policy. Again, I advise Oscar Sjöstedt to read some of our movements. There are our proposals which I have been very rapsodically describing in all their detail.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-333	Mr President, I would like to Of course I'll read your budget movements. Should I interpret it as meaning that parental allowance, unemployment insurance and access to health care in general will be more or less exclusive to those who are nationals of the country show us those who are not? Can one imagine that there is a risk – perhaps that's even the point – that a socio-economically clear sub-group is created in society? Do you understand the consequences? Is it really prepared to take the consequences of the policy that follows in the direction of the key?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-336	Mr President, I would like to This is the basic problem with the rhetoric of the Swedish democrats. First, integration costs too much money. Then the problems are solved using smarter systems. Then there are problems with that too! It is so clear that every time a Swedish democrat discusses this issue, reasoning always leads to closed borders. That's not how the Center Party and I look at how a modern open economy works. Transparency wisely, transparency without too expensive and bad systems, is a strength. The Swedish welfare building is based on an insurance concept, and you qualify into this insurance through work. This basic idea has been too much removed from. We want to get back to it. Sweden is a country you can come to, where you can work hard and realize your ideas.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-340	Mr President, I would like to We are now in the middle of a climate offensive that is changing and modernising the whole of Sweden. During its term of office, the Government is investing EUR 25 billion in the climate, solar cells, biogas, high-speed trains and charging points for electric cars. Almost all of this the Center Party wants to remove and instead slow down the green transition. We don't have time for that. The Center Party had eight years to demonstrate its environmental ambitions, but little was done. As we talked about before, there was no bonus – Malus system for cars, no green fuel change and no instruments for aviation. The Centre Party left behind an emission gap of 4 million tonnes of carbon dioxide, which we are now plugging. In opposition, the Center likes to talk about environmental policy. I really appreciate that, as I also said in the last line shift. At the same time, one can really wonder where the real priorities of the Centre Party will be if the party should be in government. Perhaps the Centre Party's draft budget can give an indication. For example, the Center Party is proposing billions of cuts for protection and measures of a valuable nature, and as far as environmental taxes are concerned, Emil Källström has even said that if there is a shift in power, one of the first things to be torn up is the air tax. Is it one of the Centre Party's most disturbing priorities, a party that thus claims to be a party that cares about the environment? Is the most important thing you want to do in Sweden to remove environmental taxes?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-345	Mr President, I would like to On the issue of aviation taxation, I would not be too worried if I were Janine Alm Ericson. I would like to update my point there. I do not believe that air tax one will be implemented at all. There won't be anything to tear up. We have this discussion a lot. There are those who are impressed by the Green Party's expensive environmental policy, but someone who is not very impressed is the climate – to the extent that the climate has any opinion on the matter. During the alliance years, emissions decreased clearly year by year, while the economy grew. This development has become less and less evident during the time of the Green Party in power. What Janine Alm Ericson does not mention is a number of major debacles in this area. While small-scale energy production, not least solar electricity, is emerging, we have spent about a year and a half first introducing a solar tax and then lowering the same solar tax. Who knows how much it has cost in the form of investment decisions that have never been taken and solar panels that have never been set up in garages, villas and the like? As far as environmental policy is concerned, the results are valid, not talk. We have to get back to that. Nor can you mix the cards away and compare apples and pears. When the Green Party spends billions on large parts of Swedish forests, it is actually a disservice to the climate. There are few better carbon sinks than forests that are managed and grown in a sustainable way, and where the products are used in a way that allows carbon dioxide to be stored. But there's the Green Party completely offside. Mr President, I would like to It is the result, not the talk, that applies.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-351	Mr President, I would like to That is exactly what I said. The fact that air tax has an effect in terms of reducing climate emissions states both the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and environmental organisations, so I really hope that you will come to your senses. But this is not the first time that the Center Party has loudly criticized tax increases. Doomsday did not come true when the Green Party was in government and, for example, raised the tax on petrol. Similarly, youth unemployment did not soar when the social security contribution for young people was restored to the original level, as the Center Party wanted to claim. On the contrary, youth unemployment is currently the lowest in 13 years. It starts to look like every time the Center cries wolf, there are more sheep coming. The government is making extensive investments in biogas production and public transport in rural areas. All of this is rejected by the Center Party. So I would also like to ask why it is so important for the Center Party to cut down on biogas production and public transport in rural areas.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-354	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps one could say that every time the Center Party shouts wolf there is a boom. Maybe we should do it a little more often, and we solve Sweden's economic problems that way. I am not very impressed that the Green Party and the Social Democrats in government have managed to administer a global, European and, not least, Swedish boom, which I spoke about in my speech. The important thing is what seeds we sow for future success. There it is simply to note that the Green Party has jumped on the socialist train by raising taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship much more than raising environmental taxes. They have jumped on the train when it comes to seeing the source of success in redistributing resources, rather than creating new ones by more people getting into work and more businesses being created – through development, simply. I find that regrettable. I thought, and still believe, better about the Green Party and hope that you come to realize. You are warmly welcome on the development track!
i-d72fea124dd52e05-357	Mr President, I would like to Over the last ten days, we have been able to see how humanity and solidarity have manifested. It gives hope in the difficult and for the future. So let's take it with us. The crisis also showed how important the central functions of society actually are. We saw how emergency services in the form of fire brigades, police, ambulances and medical care did their utmost and worked very well. That's how a strong community building should work. The main task of politics is to build a society that gives people good living conditions and conditions to create a good life – where everyone is taken advantage of and given the opportunity to contribute and feel needed. Equal societies work better and are stronger. For our part, we in the Left Party have focused on welfare and equality in the budget negotiations we have had with the government since the elections. That is why we have pushed for reforms that strengthen and expand welfare. These are concrete reforms such as free medicines for all children, glasses for children and young people and free mammography. Detection of breast cancer in time should not be a matter of the thickness of the wallet. We know that equal societies work best. It is with this insight that we have also pushed for 10 billion in increased state grants to municipalities and county councils, annually. It is the greatest historical effort since the introduction of this state aid system. Next year, workers in elderly and disabled care will also be guaranteed work clothes. Actually, it's well worth celebrating. Without preschool, health care and care for the elderly and disabled, society would have looked completely different. Above all, we women had had completely different living conditions than we have today. Today, these activities are taken for granted, as well as social benefits such as health insurance, holiday, pension, parental insurance and unemployment insurance. It is important to remember that without political struggle these reforms would not have existed. All major political welfare reforms have usually been a battle, a battle where the left has stood against the right and a battle that some bourgeois parties are happy to forget this in retrospect. This may be worth reminding a little more of now that they raise their voices so loudly – when those who earn 38 000 crowns or more will be able to contribute a little more to the welfare. For when the citizens manage the finances there will be large deficits; that is more the rule than the exception. In 2014, we had negative financial savings of minus 58 billion. What do the bourgeoisie do? Well, they are proposing a further tax cut of 14 billion. Now we have been involved in cleaning up after bourgeois economic policy. And we also see clearly that it has left great distressed needs. We know that many welfare activities work well, but we also see that there are great needs, for example in maternity care. Future parents are worried; they do not know whether there is room for them, how far they should be forced to go, or whether there are enough staff to assist them when the time comes. We take their concerns seriously. Now it adds another half a billion to the 400 million we have received in the past. This is how future parents can feel secure and enjoy becoming parents. Many children are having a hard time today — some even father bad or at risk. It can be parents who are not enough, a crisis in the young person's life, addiction or eating disorders. Social Services need more resources. They have a heavy responsibility in their daily work to meet children and young people as fathers or at risk of harm. Children's and youth psychiatry and first-line psychiatry also need resource enhancements. No young person should be forced to wait for help. In total, these activities are now being strengthened by a quarter of a billion. Today, Mr President, too many young elementary schools leave unqualified for the national programmes of upper secondary school. In order to improve the conditions for all students in the introduction programmes, where language induction is now the largest, we now target 150 million SEK extra. This concerns about 60 000 pupils. This will improve schools' ability to meet each individual's needs, needs and objectives. This is how the school also gets better opportunities to carry out its important compensatory mission: to give all students the opportunity to achieve good results. As early as this summer, another 10 000 young people can get summer jobs, thanks to the money that we have been involved in negotiating in the budget. The feeling when one's ability is taken into account and when one's skills and will are sought after is strong. Making your own money is important, as is making contacts for the future. But many young people do not have the necessary contacts but need extra effort to get a first summer job. I am thinking in particular of young people with disabilities and unaccompanied young people on the run. Now they also have better opportunities. Mr President, I would like to I've worked in home care and preschool. I know what that work means and that it gives an enormous amount back, but also that it is exhausting. Working conditions and wages need to be improved. It is totally unreasonable for women who work in welfare to pay for it with their health and their bodies. Therefore, it is now a proposal for a referral that those with the highest income should be allowed to contribute something more than they do today. Those who earn 38,000 or more will have to pay between SEK 2 and 200 more in tax. The more than 2 billion that it provides in increased income to society makes it possible to improve the wages and working conditions of employees in the welfare sector. That's taking responsibility. There is a great deal of resources in this society, not least in the form of capital income. They were as large as 340 billion in 2015. Of them, 90 percent, or 300 billion, went to the 10 percent with the highest income in this country. Capital income is thus the strongest contributor to the growing income gap – it is very unevenly distributed. What if they could be distributed more equally? Imagine how much better it would be for the country's 200 000 poor pensioners or the more than 200 000 children living in poverty! Think of those long - term sufferers who could have a better economy or single parents who could relax and feel some kind of financial security by the end of the month if the money was enough for food, rent, and perhaps even a movie visit. Today, unfortunately, the tax system is designed to benefit those with the highest income. We would like to do it again, because it is necessary. We need to redistribute more. We want a society that is for everyone. Then we also need to have increased revenue in order to expand welfare. In the budget that we are now discussing and debating, there are several proposals to improve welfare but also to reduce inequality. It is about maternity care, introduction programs for high school children, social services and first-line psychiatry for children and young people. All of this is now being added to additional resources. 10,000 more young people should be able to get a summer job. This is good and important for those who are directly affected but also for all of us, because in this country we care about each other, which has been evidenced not least in the last ten days. We want a society and a community that works for all of us.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-377	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to Ulla Andersson you can really hear Ulla Andersson's joy that midwives and others in the core of welfare will now pay more in taxes. When I look out over Sweden and look at health care, school, elderly care and social services, I see large parts of welfare that do not work. There is a shortage of nurses, a lack of midwives and a lack of managers in municipal care for the elderly. It's socionomists leaving their jobs. These are the social bearers in Swedish society. They are the ones who make sure that the core of welfare works every time you need the help of society. The trade union Saco, which organizes many of the academics in Sweden, recently pointed out that in the vast majority of educations in society it does not pay to get educated. In this situation, the government, with the support of the Left Party, has chosen to raise for the fourth time in recent years the tax rate for the social workers at the core of welfare. It is about midwives, specialist nurses and managers in the municipal care of the elderly, those who take some extra responsibility at work and those who raise their hands and say: I take responsibility for managing this unit in the care of the elderly or in social services. For these people you are now raising the treasure. There are hundreds of thousands of people whom you now regard as high-income people. Training will be less profitable. I'm a liberal. I want the exact opposite. I want diligence, education, responsibility and diligence to pay off. It is the opposite of the policy that Ulla Andersson represents.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-382	Mr President, I would like to I think it would be good if Liberals Mats Persson explained in what way there will be higher wages and more midwives if you cut 6 billion in welfare, as the Liberals propose in their budget.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-383	Can you explain that to me? You do this because you always think it is more important to lower the tax for those who earn the best. Then you have to save somewhere else. What you're saving on is just the welfare. You save on core business, such as health care, school and care. Just look at the Finance Committee's report on the state budget in 2017. Let's see what else you're saving on. Yes, you're saving the sick. You save on the unemployed. That is how bourgeois economic policy works. It's like where you make the move, because you're supposed to benefit those who already have it very well. In Sweden it is always worthwhile to educate yourself. You have better health. You have more influence. You have a better pension. You also get many times in your work to contribute in a much-needed way to the construction of society. I can readily admit that I think that many of the employees in the welfare sector need higher wages. That is why I think that people like you and me, who have 63 000 in fees and who have 38 000 left after tax, can contribute a little more than we do today. 200 kroner more a month, you and I can afford. In this way we can have more midwives, nurses and assistant nurses. And, imagine, they can even get better wages. It is a completely different policy from the one you are proposing. You're cutting 6 billion on welfare. In what way is it good for this country's development, Mats Persson?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-386	Mr President, I would like to Liberals stand up for the welfare to have its money. In our budget, we are very clear that the school, health care and care should have extra investments. We give priority to this in our budget. Then we do not buy in every situation exactly the design of these aids proposed by the Left Party. But it's something else. The basic question remains. You clearly show that you do not see the problem, Ulla Andersson. When it comes to more than every other education in Sweden, it does not pay to get educated. Is it reasonable, in this situation, to increase the tax rate for those groups who already feel that it is not worthwhile to train as a midwife, as a sociologist or as a teacher? Is it reasonable to increase the tax rate for those groups further? In what way does it strengthen welfare? Basically, this is about an ideological vision that the Left Party represents. You do not want to stand up for the hard-working Sweden. You don't want responsibility, education and diligence to pay off.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-389	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it's an ideological vision. We do not want to cut by 6 billion in welfare, as you want to do, Mats Persson. No, we don't think that's reasonable. We see child care workers, preschool teachers, nurses and midwives working hard and need more colleagues, better working conditions and better wages. That is why we propose that people with relatively high incomes should be allowed to contribute something more than they do today. If you have 63,000 in fees, you can afford to pay 200 SEK more in taxes. Furthermore, if we know that it goes to the working conditions and salaries of these particular groups, that is quite reasonable. We can read in the report. I think this is about the basics of politics. Liberals have a saving of 4.9 billion in sickness and disability security. It is 5.9 billion in savings on public subsidies to municipalities, i.e. to pre-school, school and care for the elderly. In what way will it be better for nurses, for the elderly, for children and for teachers in Liberal Sweden with such enormous savings?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-392	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to pay tribute to Ulla Andersson and to the others who are behind this proposal and this policy. I think it is an excellent proposal to devote more resources to strengthening first-line psychiatry for our children and young people. I think it is worth highlighting such a good proposal from the government and the Left Party. There aren't many of them, so we need to focus on those that exist. But the lack of care on time is acute. Care queues are growing, not least in red-green-controlled county councils. One reason for this is that the government and the Left Party have abolished the queue billions, which was the most important tool for cutting queues. Now it is the elderly and fragile who are paying the price for this mistake with an increasing wait for both planned and emergency care. At that time the welfare was in free fall, as Ulla Andersson usually claims, i.e. 2014 when the Christian Democrats and the alliance government queue billions existed, 18 county councils were able to give over 70 percent of patients a first visit to planned, specialized care within 60 days. There were 14 county councils that passed the 60-day limit for surgery. Now only eight county councils can handle the first visit and five can handle surgery. It's a pretty dramatic deterioration. My question is: where are your reforms to break this? Ulla Andersson talks about making hospital visits for free. Yes, it has become free for people over 85 years of age to spend considerably longer in care queues. That is what your policy has achieved. Isn't it time to admit that it was a big mistake to remove the queue billions? Where are the reforms to seriously cut the lines?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-399	Mr President, I would like to It's not every day you get to make a Christian Democrat happy, but it feels nice to do it! I'm very happy to do that, and of course it's important to have extra resources for children's and young people's psychiatry and first-line psychiatry. No young person should have to wait for help and support when you need it so well. That is why the emphasis on the work of social services for children and young people who are suffering very important, and I would think that Jakob Forssmed also appreciates that effort. In the budget we spent last autumn, there were 10 billion in state subsidies to the local government sector. It was the largest investment ever made since the introduction of this state grant system, and it offers great opportunities to county councils. It is about 3 billion in increased state subsidies to them, and it provides great opportunities for municipalities to improve, for example, preschool or elderly care. However, this is precisely the 10 billion that the Christian Democrats choose to remove from their budget. How does it provide better care or better working conditions for those employed in health care? This has to be explained by Jakob Forssmed, for 10 billion to municipalities and county councils, of which just over 3 billion to health care is a huge increase in resources that is really needed. But you reject that proposal. If you want to shorten care queues, I would also like to say that it is very good to ensure that tax money goes to what it is intended for. As I said earlier in the debate, it was EUR 5 billion that went to other things than they were intended for, i.e. to dividends, interest rates and group contributions instead of health and social care. Even 5 billion is quite a lot of money, but neither do you think it is reasonable, that is to say that the money we have already paid for health care should go to health care. You think it's better for that money to be paid off. We don't. We therefore have a number of concrete proposals. In addition, the freedom of establishment of health care companies could be removed so that resources for health care went to those most in need.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-405	Mr President, I would like to I don't think I was happy about that, nor were the patients in the care queues. I think Ulla Andersson will have to accept some responsibility. It is during your years that we have seen that 18 county councils that managed to give 70% of patients a first visit within 60 days have now become eight. It is during your time as a partner to the government that 14 county councils that passed the operations have become five. Yet Ulla Andersson comes with criticism of my proposals. She'd be happy to. But explain how your policy has led to these results! It is the elderly who are in long queues of care who are affected by this. At Mälar Hospital in Eskilstuna, you can sit for five hours if you are over 80 years old and wait to see a doctor in the emergency department. This won't hold. It is your policy that leads to these results!
i-d72fea124dd52e05-408	Mr President, I would like to 10 billion in increased state grants of which 3 billion to health care is a concrete proposal to improve health care conditions, and that is exactly what the Christian Democrats choose to reject because you would rather reduce the tax, Jakob Forssmed. We want needs-driven medical care. That is what is essential, and that is also what the Health Act says we should have in this country. However, your policy has meant that it is now strongly questioned, because instead we have the freedom of establishment of health care companies in focus. Healthcare companies establish themselves where people are healthier and have the highest level of education and income, i.e. where you have the least need for healthcare. So, in order to deal with much of these problems, we would also have to deal with this. We want more money for health care, and I will be happy to come back to that in the autumn. 10 billion in state subsidies already exist, and we are going to get rid of the profit hunt in health care – these are concrete reforms to get better and needs-driven healthcare, because we need that.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-411	Mr President, I would like to It is typical of the opposition that a day like this is standing in the speaker's chair and blacking out the Swedish economy and everything in Sweden, but I am not going to do that. I think Sweden is an amazing country. It's a country with a lot of trust. It is a country of solidarity, something which was shown not least a few weeks ago during the horrendous act of terror. It is a country which, as far as the economy is concerned, has managed globalisation far better than many other countries. The vast majority of wage and salary earners have improved considerably over the last ten to fifteen years, not least because of the tax cuts made by the Alliance but also because Swedish companies are competitive, which has made ordinary people significantly better off. As a liberal, I have a vision, and that is that it will mean less where you come from and more where you're going. That's why I get worried when I look out over Sweden and see where Sweden is going. A new lower class is emerging in Sweden right now. It is people who have never been into the labour market. It is people who live in idleness, in dependency, often with low education. Only one in three of those with a short education have jobs in Sweden, and then it does not matter if you are born in Aleppo or in Arlöv. What worries me most, Mr President, is that the government chooses to turn a blind eye to this development. It's okay to talk about the Swedish economy going well. It's okay, because it's true. But it is not okay not to mention in a word that next year 300 000 people are exposed to the Swedish labour market and do not enter the labour market, that the labour market for them is closed and that their everyday lives are about idleness, dependency on benefits and not being part of society's community. Mr President, I would like to This is the most obvious failure for the government when you think back to 2014 and hear Social Democrat Stefan Löfven say that Sweden will have Europe's lowest unemployment. Today we are in the middle, in 15th place, in that league in Europe. We are even further down today than we did last year. This shows in a tangible way how the new lower class is now getting stuck and how the government is failing in its policy of giving all people the chance. D there is a big gap between the one who has a job and the one who does not have a job. And now it is up to us politicians to make important reforms for the future where everyone is needed and where everyone gets the chance. Mr President, I would like to From the Liberals' side, we are very clear: We believe that now is the time to make substantial reforms to create more and easier ways into the Swedish labour market. It's about starting jobs with lower entry rates and lower costs for hiring. This allows more people to enter the labour market. Our view is that it is better to work with a lower starting salary than to live on benefits and be idle. Using this in the public sector means that teachers, nurses and doctors could spend more of their working time on what they are trained for instead of nurses making beds and teachers copying paper on their working hours. We also want in our policy high expectations of people to support themselves. You should apply for a job outside the municipal border, and we should have a compensation for support so that you do an internship or learn Swedish if you receive grants from the community. The basis of our social contract is that everyone who can make a living should do so. On this we see nothing in government policy. We do not see any concrete proposals that clearly create more ways in and have high expectations of people to support themselves. It's distressing. Mr President, I would like to It's also about school. If we're gonna break the new underclass, we're gonna have to invest in school. From the Liberals' side, we are investing in extended schooling requirements for new arrivals. We want shorter summer holidays for new arrivals and higher salaries for the teachers who work in vulnerable areas. This is met with passivity. This is met by nothing on the part of the government. Mr President, I would like to It is a matter of security and priority for the judiciary. This will not be enough for the inadequate contributions announced in the report, which only cover the gaps in the budget of the European Parliament today, but require substantial efforts. The police profession needs to be upgraded and the status strengthened to improve the conditions for police officers. Mr President, I would like to It is about securing Sweden and ensuring the defence. We are currently in a situation where Russia is renovating and, as a result, our countries in the Baltic Sea region are renovating their defences in order to meet the threat posed by the Russian military escalation. The government's response to this is an effort equal to the reduced VAT for nature guides. Russia is equipping, and the answer from the government is an investment of 1⁄2 billion, as much as the reduced VAT for nature guides. It becomes ridiculous and makes it clear that this issue is not being taken seriously. Mr President, I would like to If we are to be able to break the new lower class and build a stronger Sweden, it is important to have the right view of how jobs are created. In Liberalernas Sweden, jobs are created in companies. In Liberalernas Sweden, meat and blood entrepreneurs employ people and invest in new companies or in their own company. That is what will enable us to have jobs in the future too. We have a finance minister who in interviews describes small businesses as tax planners or potential tax fraudsters. It sends a clear signal that the government does not see what small businesses are doing for Sweden and that it is in the smaller companies and, for that matter, in our large manufacturing companies that the future exists. When you have that view, not many new jobs are created in our country. In this, too, is the view of justice. The liberal approach to justice is that responsibility, diligence and diligence should be encouraged and that all people should have the same opportunities from the beginning, but not all people should have the same amount. We will fight poverty, not wealth. But the socialist view is the opposite. There, equality goes so far as to seek to level out income inequality, and the problem is that some are rich, not that others are poor. This is most evident when we have a government that is so keen on raising the tax on midwives and other social welfare providers that even in 2013 opposition the budget was broken out afterwards to ensure that tens of thousands of people would be regarded as high-income earners and pay government taxes. The government has continued on the habit of raising taxes for ordinary people for the fourth year. This signals a view of education, responsibility and diligence which is the direct opposite of the policy represented by the Liberals. In Swedish politics, we are a force for the hard-working Sweden, for those who train, for those who start a company and for those who are the bearers of society and ensure that welfare works. If this is to work, these groups must also function, and then it is not good enough, as is now happening, to increase the tax widely for these groups. Mr President, I would like to A new lower class is emerging in Sweden. The long-term effects and consequences of this lower class will not be reduced in the light of the fact that many newcomers with short education in our country will now enter the Swedish labour market. If we do nothing about the fact that we are seeing unemployment and dependency today, it will create a society of enormous tensions, where the gap between the one who has and the one who has not will increase. The tension between the one who has a job and the one who does not have a job will increase, and solidarity and trust in our society are in danger of getting a real thorn. I don't want such a society. On the Liberal side, we want a society where everyone is needed, a society that stays together and that gives everyone a chance. When the government does not see the problem of integration, that a new lower class is emerging, it is very serious. The government's passive policy is clearly speaking because we now need a new government.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-430	Mr President, I would like to It is well known that the Left Party wants to put an end to the pursuit of profit in welfare, and there is also strong popular support for that. I will give three examples of why. I thought I'd start with Health Preschool. There the children were given water and bread instead of food, since the owner would rather spend the tax money he received to take care of children on buying new preschools, in order to make even more profit from tax - funded welfare. The second example is the school Runstycket. Eight-year-old Conrad has not been able to attend school all autumn, as the owner thought it was too expensive to have Conrad there because he has mild autism and needs support. Conrad's mother says in Aftonbladet: I think most people agree with that, perhaps even Mats Persson. The third example is the privately operated Ultragyn at Sophiahemmet in Stockholm, where you pay bonuses to the gynecologists after how much they cut in women. The clinic is also paid more by the county council if they do major procedures. Nowhere else in Stockholm do gynecologists find so much in women's reproductive organs to cut, cut or burn away. It'll reveal the Express. These are three examples of how the pursuit of profit can go wrong when you let greed rule. These examples, apart from the pursuit of profit and greed, have one thing in common, and that is that all three have links to the Liberals. Health pre-school was run by a party board member and former member of parliament for the Liberals. The owner of the free school is a liberal member of parliament's wife. And Ultragyn has clear links to the liberal county council here in Stockholm. In what way do the Liberals think it is a problem that you have such clear links to the pursuit of profit in welfare?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-436	Mr President, I would like to Please debate the development of welfare with us liberals, Ulla Andersson! Feel free to debate the issue of profit with us Liberals! But what you did at the moment in Parliament's pulpit is what the Swedish people hate, namely that you are trying to scoff at your political opponents qualities that our party does not represent at all. I hope that we in Parliament will be able to hold the debate at a higher level without personal attacks and without squeezing at each other's epithet which has nothing to do with the debate. I did not understand that you were asking a question, but I would still like to debate what you raised. With regard to the question of free schools and the ability of independent units to be in welfare, the Liberals' view is clear. We must have strict requirements and strict controls on the actors in private health care companies and independent preschools that conduct welfare activities. We must also have strict control and high demands on the municipalities that run schools and on the county councils that conduct healthcare activities, and it is because we care that patients who choose care providers and those who choose schools should be able to trust that the care is of high quality and that the school produces good results. What you are doing, and what you have just done here in the speaker's chair, Ulla Andersson, is trying to mess with my party's qualities that are not in this debate. I am happy to debate the issue of profit. On the part of our party, we do not think that profit is the problem. The problem is when the business is conducted with poor quality, whether it is a free school or a municipal school. But don't smudge your mess on my side!
i-d72fea124dd52e05-441	Mr President, I would like to These three examples clearly show the problems of profit hunting in welfare. They show what happens to greed when you allow unlimited winnings. Your party has pushed this development, Mats Persson. You have liberalised and introduced legislation in which it is free to establish itself and freely for unlimited profit withdrawals. Your party has clear links with the profit companies. Whether you like it or not, that's what it looks like. All three examples were clearly linked to your party. If you dislike what they have done or not is another thing, but something happens when the profit hunt enters welfare. This may place children's needs on exceptions, and women's reproductive health may not be as important if you get paid in the form of bonuses the more you cut into them. Something is happening that is very serious in welfare when the prize hunt is released in this way. Your party has contributed very strongly to that.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-444	Mr President, I would like to I am not going to do that, but I could have mentioned representatives of Ulla Andersson's party and the links with the DDR at the end of the 1980s. I could have mentioned a representative who did not want to stop saying the word communist far into the 1990s. But I'm not. I'm going to talk about the issue. It is clear that it is a huge problem that we in Swedish welfare have free schools and municipal schools that conduct bad activities. In my municipality of Lund we had a municipal school where they kept quiet for a long time about a rape that was committed in close proximity to the school. My party took political responsibility for this while other parties did not. It is clear that examples can be found of free schools and municipal schools that misbehave around our country. Our focus is to ensure that every child and parent can be sure that the school works and delivers good knowledge. We're gonna discuss this, not smudge each other.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-447	Mr President, I would like to Our society and our economy need trust and security to develop. This is particularly true in a troubled time where populism and insecurity are spreading in the world and where we have Brexit, Donald Trumps's access and developments in Turkey and Russia. The confidence and security that we so well need also in the economy does not arise in a vacuum or by itself, but is built strong in families and associations. These are contexts where we are seen and loved, where we meet each other and build bridges and where we learn to see others and each other. But the development for more trust and security is also built in companies by entrepreneurs who see something that is not there and who find it worthwhile to start or develop a business to do something about what you see does not exist: an innovation, a service or a product that provides jobs, development, confidence in the future and tax revenue. The development of more trust and security is also built in workplaces in a work community where you can contribute, make contributions to others and feel the pride it means to support yourself. If a society's government does not understand what builds society and the economy strong, it is serious and problematic. Then you can start denying children's rights to their parents. Then you can start controlling and setting with families a little as you like. Then you can get associations and congregations that make amazing efforts to lose their appetite. This can reduce the conditions so that fewer entrepreneurs dare to hire, invest and invest. Then trust and security are threatened. Trust and security require citizens to know that the public is doing their part – that the government is fully committed to the problems and challenges of the labour market, as well as the health, security, elderly care, school and competitiveness, and that the government sees them in the shadow of the economic sun. Is that so? The division into the labour market and the gaps it creates are the greatest challenge for our economy, perhaps our society. But where is the government's answer when large groups do not get the chance to show what they are doing in the labour market, when people do not get a chance to become part of a working community and feel the pride of supporting themselves and when hundreds of thousands of people are not allowed to work 100 percent of their ability? In addition to a few more training measures, it is a fate. It's out. It's empty and tired. There are a few hundred trainee jobs, and promises of tens of thousands have become more than 400. Unfortunately, this inaction applies in areas by area. In the area of healthcare, there are no structural grips that are sufficient to cope with the equal care that you like to talk about. There is no reform to collect advanced hospital care under the state, no reform to focus on primary care to relieve the emergency departments. Instead, what works is abolished, like the queue billions, and now we see care queues growing. The government has its priorities clear. It is now free for some patient groups to stand in the ever longer care queues or sit extra long hours in the emergency room. Mr President, I would like to Now we need real reforms. We need introductions with slightly lower entry salaries for a limited period instead of grants, where you get the chance to learn the job at work. We need lower taxes for newcomers, young people and people who are far removed from the labour market. We need more professional adult positions, even more than the government proposes. We need a substantial simplification of subsidised employment and the closure of what is not working. We need reforms for health care. We need reforms for accessibility through a re-emerged cue billion. We need health care teams to relieve the health-trained staff in our hospitals. We need a primary care reform with increased access to primary care in order to relieve the emergency departments. We need a nationalisation of advanced hospital care. We need a strong police reform so that we can get in place 10 000 more police officers and, in addition, additional police workers in the form of civilian workers. These people need better working conditions. It's good that the government does things here. It is too little and too late, but it is good that it is done. More needs to be done. Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats were elected to ensure that no ordinary wage earners would receive increased income tax. However, hundreds of thousands more wage earners have paid government income tax in recent years. Far over a million — many policemen, midwives, teachers, and engineers — receive increased taxes. The message is clear: Don't take the executive job in care for the elderly! Do not train as a midwife or specialist nurse! Don't try to be a first teacher! Because we make it a little less profitable every year. And if you're older, don't try too hard to stay in the job market or change your career! Because we're hitting a special payroll tax on people like you. This has led to tens of billions of dollars in increased taxes in a couple of years, most of it in jobs and businesses. But when it comes to the major reforms, the government is passive. It is active in terms of tax increases, and it is also active in tackling what works and with which people are satisfied, such as parental insurance. It should of course be mixed with, or modernised as it is usually called when forced to divide it further. When it comes to freedom of choice in welfare, well-functioning and appreciated activities should be closed down, not because of lack of quality, but because of the fact that the activities are outside the narrow field of vision that socialist blinders admit. How about instead of a timetable for compulsory parental insurance, have a timetable to ensure that all children in Sweden get a chance to see their parents go to work or a schedule for all children to get the skills they need or have adults present in their lives? Mr President, I would like to We need to reverse developments in Sweden so that more trust and security can emerge and so that people do not feel that their chances of life are deteriorating while the economy is going well, because that is the case for large groups today when the thresholds are too high and you do not get a chance to enter the labour market. We need to ensure that the quality of care does not depend on where you live. Then we need powerful health care reforms. We need to ensure that residents in vulnerable suburbs do not suffer from criminal gangs day after day. Then we need strong security reforms. We do not have to make it worse for entrepreneurs when it comes to hiring and growing. Mr President, I would like to We must also see those in the shadow of the economic sun. We must break, worship and unlock the labour market that is increasingly closed to vulnerable groups, mostly foreign born with a lack of education. We must be able to make the reforms required for equal care for all, for there to be a police officer who has the power to stand up for the victim, no matter where it happens to live. We must protect the communities where trust and security can grow – in relationships, in the family, in associations and in civil society. We need freedom without egoism, and we need solidarity without socialism. That is why we need a new focus on policy.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-468	Mr President, I would like to I was making you very happy, Jakob Forssmed. I pressed the button to agree instead of the button to request a line. But I won't let you be so happy. Actually, I was going to ask for a line to talk about people on sick pay. It is a substitute for those who have permanent job losses, which is very difficult to obtain. Many of them live with sorrow, anger, and disappointment that life did not turn out as it should. Of course, they should not be drawn even by poverty, shame and guilt, as many do today. I think you and I agree on that. Many of those who receive sickness benefit have worked so that they have become ill. So they have stressed so much and pressured so hard that the body has simply run out. Many of them have worked in welfare. During your eight years in power, this group did not receive a crown in income enhancement. The housing allowance has now been increased, as has the level of sickness benefit. And this summer the guarantee will be increased. These are reforms that we have been pushing and getting through. In this autumn's budget proposal, tax is likely to be reduced for this group. We are very happy about that. This is important in principle, partly because the group has a very poor financial situation – the average income is about SEK 10 600 – partly because they pay significantly more in tax than others with the same income. A person who has 11,000 in sickness benefits pays 1 000 SEK more in tax than a person who has a job and earns 11 000 SEK. This was a system that you were involved in. In fact, I think it is an approach which is not fine and which is not reasonable. That is why we are pleased to have got this amendment through now. It is important in principle. I wonder: how will you relate to this change? Are you now in the process of changing your approach and no longer pointing out these people as being debilitating in the tax system?
i-d72fea124dd52e05-473	Mr President, I would like to In 2006, we had a situation where large groups were more or less permanently outside the labour market because it paid too badly to work in Sweden. It was one of the reasons for the job tax deduction, not primarily to reduce the remuneration of people but to increase the drive to work, to increase the profitability of working and to increase the opportunities to move from benefit payments to work – simply so that it will always pay off to work. I think it was right then and that it is right now that these reforms are still in place. I note that the Left Party has supported several budgets where the job tax deduction has been a continuing underlying idea, despite all the criticisms that have been made over the years both by social democrats and by left-wing parties against the job tax deduction. Nor is it true that we did not carry out reforms for this group to strengthen the economy of these people. We raised the housing allowance on several occasions. I think Ulla Andersson knows that. These were good and important reforms, not least in order to strengthen the economy of those in this group who have children. It's something I'm proud of. Some of the reforms that you have proposed for this group, such as increased guarantees, I think we match in our budget. I think it is reasonable to do so precisely for a group that has been lagging behind for a long time. Whether we are going to support this tax reduction will come back to when we present our option this autumn. However, I also note that Ulla Andersson sometimes pleads for tax cuts, but it is never tax cuts on labour or tax cuts to make sure that it pays better for different groups to work. I think that is something that Ulla Andersson should perhaps consider once in a while.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-477	Mr President, I would like to The last thing you said, Jakob Forssmed, made me very worried. Are you seriously saying that people who have a permanent disability and receive sickness benefit do not go into the labour market because they do not pay to work? You could never have meant that, could you? Are you saying that these people stay home from work because they think the treasure is too high? No, they stay home from work because they cannot go to work because they have become ill, many times because they have worked too much. The approach that you introduced into the tax system, what you call driving forces to work, is not reasonable in any way. People do not get sick because they want to get sick, and people do not get unemployed because they want to get out of work. People get sick or out of work just because they have the bad luck of getting sick or out of work. You're not supposed to be taxed for that, are you? That doesn't make any sense at all, does it? You have to have a secure financial situation, and you have to pay equal tax for equal income.
i-d72fea124dd52e05-479	Mr President, I would like to It is true that the last one was a general comment about the Left Party, which I have never heard in any context ever argue for a reduction in taxes on labour. It turns out quite rightly that what you are going for, Ulla Andersson, is the job tax deduction – that it will pay better to work and that anyone who gets up in the morning and gets to work will get more over in his wallet. Nevertheless, you support a budget where this is a key element year after year. Take responsibility for your politics! Get out of the budget! Tell me you can't support a budget that has the job tax deduction as a fundamental idea! Then do it! But don't stand here and yell at me for the job tax deduction, when you're obviously behind it yourself.
