i-fca373ae079c9e62-6	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson has asked the Minister for Higher Education and Research if she believes that measures should be taken to stop a state-owned Swedish company from selling services that enable such a war, whether any analysis of the international legal dilemma has been made or whether the Minister intends to initiate it, and how the Minister relates to a possible moratorium on the sale of data to armed forces and weapons manufacturers, in accordance with the wishes of the UN agency. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Swedish Space Corporation, SSC, is one of the world's largest commercial providers of satellite communications and satellite control services, with customers in some twenty countries. The SSC has no missions involving warfare using drones. The company does not sell data either. The company's global antenna network is an advanced telecommunications network that acts as a link between equipment on earth and in space. With this network, our state-owned company participates in an important part of a global business that promotes the positive and long-term sustainable development of our world. Data transmission is not itself covered by the Dual-Use Control Act and by technical assistance. The regulation of such data transfer is also not something that the UN advocates or that the government wants to control. There is no international vacuum in the use of drones – i.e. remotely controlled unmanned aerial vehicles that can be weapon carriers. They are not in themselves illegal as weapons of war. International law rules on the use of violence apply. In the context of an armed conflict, all weapons, including drones, must be used in accordance with the rules of distinction, proportionality and prudence. If there is no armed conflict, the use of human rights is regulated and states' ability to use violence against individuals is thus severely restricted by the international legal framework. In this context, it is important to make it clear that drones are not the same as autonomous weapons systems. Such systems lack an established definition. The issue of autonomous arms systems has been addressed by the International Law and Disarmament Delegation, chaired by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and will continue to be discussed in the autumn in the context of the Convention on Special Inhuman Weapons, the CCW.
i-fca373ae079c9e62-13	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer to the interpellation, which has had to lie down for a while! I have therefore asked about the business of the Swedish state's space company with, among other things, the US air force and the problem of our contributing to drone control and cruise missiles etc., which is a very topical issue right now in view of the events that have been and with the knowledge that between 80 and 90 percent of the victims are not intended targets, as it is said. There are many times hospitals, funerals, children, women, etc. The answer, that the minister is demeaning that the SSC is contributing to the U.S. drone war through its commercial activities, surprises me. I suppose that is what is meant in practice and that it is not just about semantics. The Minister replies that the state space company does not sell data. That is correct, but the essential question is: does the state space company not sell access to the transmission capacity of satellite stations, which, according to the Minister, is one of the world's largest commercial providers of satellite communications services? It is interesting to compare the Minister's response with the Communications Director of the State Space Company SCC, which states as follows: So we're not checking what's in the cables. ..................................................... The Minister therefore knows more than the Communications Director of the Space Company when the Minister writes in his reply that with this network, our state-owned company participates in an important part of a global business that promotes the positive and sustainable development of our world. How does this make sense? My information, Mr President, says that the Swedish state transmits, via the SSC, control signals used for US remote drones and that we are connected with the US air force and cooperation with some of the world's largest weapons companies, such as Boeing and Lockheed Martin. Is this wrong? According to the Minister, we do not provide this service. Alternatively, we give it for some kind of non-profit reason. It sounds very strange to me when we are talking about a state-owned company which, once again, is one of the world's largest commercial providers of satellite communications services. But, of course, I cannot doubt the Minister's words; he is a man of honour. Very well. I am rewording my claim: Swedish satellite stations, operated by the state's space company, enable the United States to send control signals to its attack drones. Wrong or right? My sources further say that U.S. spy satellite WGS4 was placed across the Middle East using state SSC. Is this correct? Do we do these services for free, or do we sell them? If so, how does it go with the sustainability policy, which says about the risks of contributing to unhealthy monitoring in the hands of the wrong actors? These are the issues I would like to add.
i-fca373ae079c9e62-24	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson tries to prove a rather far-fetched reasoning and connection here. What I am pointing out in my reply is that some statements in the interpellation are actually not correct. Stig Henriksson claims that the SSC would enable the U.S. drone war. In our view, there is no indication of this. The SSC has no such missions. Moreover, the knowledge we have about how drone operations are conducted does not indicate that there would be any risk that the SSC would be directly involved in such operations. What we know is that the United States has completely different control systems for operating with attack drones, and the SSC has no mission involving such support. Secondly, Stig Henriksson, and this claim came back in his post now, claims that the American satellite programme Wideband Global Satcom, WGS, is a spy satellite program. It's not. WGS is a constellation of satellites for military communications, and there are a wide range of countries connected to it – Australia, Canada, Denmark, Luxembourg, New Zealand and the Netherlands. None of these countries are subject to any restrictions for the Swedish part regarding services provided by SSC. It is true that the SSC has provided support for the deployment of a satellite in orbit, but the SSC has not provided any support for the operation of the satellite. When it comes to business with American companies, it is true that SSC has business with Lockheed Martin, but it is not the framework of a NASA project that aims to study the solar system. With regard to cooperation with Boeing, we are talking about Earth observation and satellite communications satellites to keep track of space debris so that it does not collide with anything in space or fall into the wrong places. None of the SSC's missions for Boeing involve warfare with attack drones. What Stig Henriksson is doing in the interpellation is based on pure speculation. He says he has sources, and I'm interested in knowing more about them. But he also refers in the interpellation to a UN report that should have been issued by UNama. We've been looking for it and trying to find it. We have even been in contact with the interpeller about that particular UN report, and, as far as I know, he has not been able to produce it so far. If we could get help in that part, I'd be grateful, too.
i-fca373ae079c9e62-31	Mr President, I would like to I've informed you where the UN report can be found, but apparently it has not been possible to find it. Maybe I don't think it's my primary task to help search sources-- I don't have those resources. On the other hand, it is easy to access it. I think this debate is stealing around its own tail. The minister says the SSC doesn't sell data. Well, that's technically correct, but it's a semantic objection if we sell the services that enable data transmission. The minister says the SSC has no mission involving warfare using drones. It is obvious that you do not have such a mission, but if you sell services that enable drone war there is a certain connection. I am not technically well-versed, and I cannot always express myself completely correctly, but then I expect you not to ride the words that way. Is it so or is it not so – it is an open question – that Sweden has an agreement via the state's company SSC with the US Air Force? I have sources that state this. The Minister can deny that. Is it only good-hearted things that the U.S. Air Force is doing? Boeing's and Lockheed's agreements will deal with the civilian use of various space programs. We both know, and it is clear from a Swedish government investigation, and the EU and the rest of the world know, that space programmes increasingly involve the integration of civilian and military space work. It's hard to keep those boundaries. It is a bit embarrassing that while the SSC Communications Director says that you have no idea what you are sending in the cables, that it is up to the customers to use them, the Minister is convinced that they are being used for peace, prosperity and development. I'm not so convinced. These questions are difficult. Nevertheless, I have tried to ask relatively open questions, and I hope that they can be sorted out. If you read the SSC's Sustainability Report, there are some reasons to ask whether it is compatible with the activities of the SSC. In no less than 29 places in the sustainability report, reference is made to human rights. Among other things, it is noted that in the event of misuse, space applications may pose threats to human rights, peace and freedom. Even if killing by drones, for example, is not prohibited by the laws of war, it will surely conflict with the beautiful words of sustainability policy. I am still not clear about whether the Minister can give a rement, that is to say that nothing the SSC does can be used to facilitate the drone war and the use of such weapons. If so, is it reasonable for a state-owned company to have a commercial activity that facilitates, enables and so forth drone wars with the high proportion of civilian victims? Is this consistent with the sustainability policy?
i-fca373ae079c9e62-39	Mr President, I would like to It feels like Stig Henriksson is out on a fishing expedition. He asks questions that he hopes someone will believe. He speculates and hopes someone will believe it, and he thereby contributes to creating a picture that Sweden has some kind of active part in U.S. drone warfare. So that is not the case. I'll tell you again. The SSC does not sell data, and there is nothing, what we know, that suggests that the SSC supports any form of drone warfare. That's exactly what I said earlier. Then there was the argument about Lockheed Martin and Boeing. I've explained what those collaborations are all about. In one case, we are talking about communications satellites and Earth observation. In the Boeing case, it's about keeping track of space debris. In the second case of Lockheed Martin, it is a NASA project to study the solar system. Stig Henriksson can of course continue to ask questions about details, but those are the answers we have to give. I asked you a question about the UN report. We have not found what Stig Henriksson refers to. Although we have asked the interpeller to show his source, we have not received an answer. We've been looking hard for you anyway. It would be exciting to hear if he has anything else to say. The SSC's basic activities play an important role on many levels. They have an important role to play in developing our opportunities to observe the seas, land masses and atmosphere. What is happening now is that information about the Earth with very high detail resolution quickly becomes available to all of us. This capacity can be crucial in many ways, not least in the climate work. I think we should be happy and proud that Sweden has a state-owned company that has been involved in pushing forward the positive global development. There is no evidence, nor has Stig Henriksson managed to produce, that the SSC in its operations operationally supports any form of drone warfare.
i-fca373ae079c9e62-47	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, the question mark still remains. The Minister has not denied doing business with the U.S. Air Force. It is not exactly lingonberry picking that they are doing – even if it would be facilitated by satellite navigation. I'm sorry, but of course it may seem like speculation. I will honestly say that I am deeply concerned about the pieces of the puzzle that can be put together via open sources. They may be wrong, but I do not see the Minister dementing them in a really strong way. The intention, of course, is not to contribute to any speculation but to get clear and clear answers. There are some problems in this. It is not easy to get those answers through official channels. Let us remember 2010, when it was revealed that the Space Company had tried to sell maritime surveillance systems to Muammar Gaddafi in Libya. A representative of the company said that such a system could help them to keep to the refugee situation along the borders and on the Mediterranean. Somewhat later, sustainability policy was able to read that one should beware of the risks of contributing to unhealthy monitoring in the hands of the wrong actors. Then there's a little difference between words and actions. What about the drones I'm worried about? Nevertheless, it is important to remember that many times they are presented as incredibly accurate weapons that only knock out the intended target. That is not the case at all. It was recently an American raid on Al-Qaida in Yemen, in connection with my writing the interpellation, and there was probably killing civilians. The Pentagon says 14 Al-Qaeda members were killed. Hospital sources in Sana say 30 people were killed, including seven women and three children. In September 2016, 15 civilians were killed and injured 13, and so on. That's the reality.
i-fca373ae079c9e62-51	Mr President, I would like to I think I have answered the questions that have been asked. If the claim is that Sweden, via the SSC, provides operational support for US drone warfare, then I can say that is not the case. The SSC does not sell data, and there is no evidence that the SSC supports any form of drone warfare in that way. I have also answered the question of cooperation and the kind of business that is being done in relation to Lockheed Martin and Boeing. When Stig Henriksson has received answers to these questions, he wonders if there is no cooperation with the US Air Force. Perhaps we can come back to that in another debate. Then I need to get more information. So far, there is no indication that Sweden is involved in the kind of warfare that Stig Henriksson wants it to be. That is enough in this debate.
i-fca373ae079c9e62-55	Mr President, I would like to Erik Ottoson has asked me what measures I will take to ensure that Swedish legislation on drones should be modern and exploit the potential offered by the technology. The question is raised in the light of the fact that the Swedish Data Protection Authority's opinion has rejected the proposal that companies' use of drone technology should not be covered by the Camera Surveillance Act. Like Erik Ottoson, I think it is urgent that the legislation provides good opportunities to use new technologies as camera-equipped drones. The Government therefore decided yesterday on the regulatory referral to the Camera Surveillance Act and the possibilities to use drones for legitimate purposes. The proposal in the legislative referral excludes private sector use of camera-equipped drones from the scope of the Camera Surveillance Act. So authorisation will not be required. Instead, the rules on privacy in the Personal Data Act will apply. The amendment is proposed to enter into force on 1 August 2017. The proposal provides for more effective regulation allowing greater use of the technology. The Government considers that the regulation in the Personal Data Act provides adequate protection against privacy restrictions.
i-fca373ae079c9e62-59	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is an answer that is positive in many respects but which it has taken its little time to deliver. As you know, the Council of State has three weeks to come to the Chamber and give its answer. It is possible to delay that response. The interpellation was sent to the Government Office on 22 February. The last response date was March 15. The debate was scheduled for 31 March. That was a week ago. Then, as an interpellant, I was told that the Government did not have time to answer or write an answer to the five weeks it had taken to respond to the interpellation. That is why we are here today debating this – on a pure occasion, Mr President, the day after a legislative referral on the subject! It's possibly an event that looks like a thought. However, I do not think it is an appropriate way to deal with the interpellation tool as such. I just want it out. So to the content of the answer. I think that is a very good answer. I have read the advice and I think there are many positive things in it. There are a couple of outstanding questions to which I would like additional answers from the Minister. One relates to how long-term thinking is to protect private privacy. Yes, there is Article 8 of the ECHR and what follows from it and other European regulations. There is also the Swedish Personal Data Act. However, this technology makes it more possible to break into the border between what is and is not allowed today, which is perceived by the public as a clear restriction of privacy. Being filmed from above can be experienced by many as problematic in situations where you do not feel it as problematic to be filmed from the side. It gives a completely different overview of a larger situation and how people, objects and property relate in relation to each other within a larger geographical area. After having caved me down in the legislation and also read the Council referral quite carefully, I feel that it is worth discussing how this should be viewed by the Swedish governments and how the legislation should really be designed. The Government is happy to develop how it sees this. The second question is as follows. Now we have a ruling in the Supreme Administrative Court that states some things in the grounds of judgment that allow one to conclude, if one is set in that direction, that it is not allowed to use cameras on drones today. This legal situation will thus apply until 1 August 2017, if the Government's timetable is met. It is therefore important to understand how the government sees this in relation to the freedom of trade, which is enshrined in our laws, and the possibility for the media to make use of this during the summer until 1 August. I would like to hear the views of the Government and the Government on these issues too.
i-fca373ae079c9e62-69	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we decided on this referral yesterday. The fact that it's taken a few more weeks doesn't depend on us. It is because for a number of weeks we have been in contact with the Moderates' parliamentary group in order to get the go-ahead for this legislation. That's how it's been. This is how it works when we anchor our proposals in Parliament. We are happy to do a job ahead of us to ensure that there is support for the proposals we put forward. In this case, we were not told by the Moderates that they thought the proposal looked good until Wednesday. The delay, Erik Ottoson, depends not on us but on your own parliamentary group. Now that Erik Ottoson has expressed in this interpellation debate that he is a strong supporter of the legislation that we are about to put forward, I trust that he will ensure that we have a smooth reading of it in Parliament. The one about the delay. As a matter of fact, we believe that camera-equipped drones are important in many different areas. This could be about agriculture and forestry. It could be media. This could be rescue operations, where you may need camera-equipped drones. The problem arose when the Supreme Administrative Court brought its judgment at the end of last year, where it was said that it had to be a permit requirement for this type of camera. It was in danger of putting away the bones for important development and also for some of these important activities. In addition, we know that no authorisation will be required from May 2018, when the General Data Protection Regulation enters into force. Already then, at the end of last year, we were met by a strong desire from many quarters to create legislation that will take care of the space until 2018. So this is temporary legislation pending this. This does not mean that the area is unregulated from a privacy point of view. On the contrary – the rules currently in place in the Personal Data Act, for example, are established. The abuse rule means, among other things, protection against hidden surveillance – you must not engage in camera surveillance in secret. That is not allowed today. In criminal law, we also have a number of regulations that put an end to this use, for example, if technology were to be used to molest people. Crippling photography is also prohibited. The mere fact that we will no longer require authorisation during the period until May 2018 does not mean that it will be unregulated from a privacy point of view, but that the rules already in place in criminal law and in the Personal Data Act apply.
i-fca373ae079c9e62-79	Mr President, I would like to Let's start with the delay. I am aware that we have had a dialogue on this and, after discussions between the Government and members of my parliamentary group, reached such a good solution. I think it's great. However, this does not excuse the delay in the interpellation response. That might explain why the referral was made yesterday. That does not explain why the Government is delaying the answer for a week so that the response time is twice as long as it should be, i.e. six weeks instead of three weeks. I promise the Minister that if he is eager to stand in the Chamber and describe this good legislation that he wants to produce, then I can many times fix interpellations so that he gets the chamber time to describe it. I will agree that this is an important piece of legislation that needs to be brought forward. However, it does not excuse the delayed response to the interpellation. Possibly the date of the legislative referral. As far as this particular legislation is concerned, I fully agree with the Government that it is not the case that it is completely unregulated, and I did not say that in my question. My question was that the legislation has been drawn up on the basis of a set of abilities which it estimates that ordinary people and ordinary companies possess. I ask if the Government feels that, with regard to the new form of capabilities that drones, for example, make possible, we have sufficient protection in the Personal Data Act and other relevant legislation. I take his answer as saying that he considers that we have adequate protection, and that is, in that case, a good thing. I think we will have reason to come back to this issue. I think it is important that ordinary people, who are surprised and perhaps a little concerned about the movement of air vehicles in the airspace around them and do not know what they are doing, can convert the anxiety into security. It is therefore important that the Riksdag, the Government and the judiciary are clear about what is permitted and what is not. Should I interpret the Minister of Justice's answer as saying that he feels that protection is adequate, even if one includes the new abilities to take photographs from new places, which have not previously been widely available to the common man but which technology now enables?
i-fca373ae079c9e62-85	Mr President, I would like to Now Erik Ottoson says that he himself has been aware that this dialogue has been conducted with the moderate parliamentary group. Then we might have been able to clarify the question considerably earlier because he himself has interceded about it. It is a good thing that now that we have an interpellation debate on the matter, we actually have something to say about what to do and how to proceed. So, Erik Ottoson, do not stand in the speaker's chair next time and try to push to the government because we are slow, when in fact there is news from you we have been waiting for. When it comes to the issue of general privacy protection, we were actually forward-looking even on the drone issue, if you look at it a little more generally. We already set up an investigation in 2015 to review camera surveillance legislation. In that investigation is also the mission to make considerations about drone technology. I think I will have that report on 15 June, and then we will see what the investigation has come up with. What we are talking about today when it comes to licensing is to take care of the temporary situation until May 2018. With regard to the camera surveillance law in general, the legislation is in the newer, but the basis for it is from the 1970s. The law was intended to be applied to a technology with permanently mounted cameras. Since then, a great deal has happened. We have much more mobile and mobile cameras; each and every one of us is now running around with cameras in our phones, just to name one thing. However, the Supreme Administrative Court last autumn had to decide on a couple of concrete cases concerning how the camera surveillance act should be assessed in relation to the new technology. There were two situations to assess. One was if there was to be a permit requirement for windshield cameras, i.e. cameras on the car to describe the route, much like on the track. The second case was whether there would be a permit requirement for cameras mounted on drones. Based on the fairly old legislation, it was concluded that there would be a licensing requirement for drone cameras but not for windscreen cameras. It may show that the legislation we have is not really up to date with the new technology. That's exactly why we set up the investigation. We'll see what it comes up with, but we had to act now on the licensing obligation for drones precisely because this court order came. Then, in my opinion, we cannot have a situation where we are reducing the conditions for this in many respects very important industry – nutritionally and in order to save lives or improve agriculture and forestry and other things. We cannot live with this situation until May 2018, and therefore we take care of it. So the answer to the question is that we have privacy protection in the form of the Personal Data Act and what exists in criminal law. We have asked an investigator to also look specifically at drones with regard to the camera surveillance law, and I am receiving a report this June. And then we'll see if we're going to do anything further in terms of privacy.
i-fca373ae079c9e62-93	Mr President, I would like to In that case, it is a good answer: that we continue to look at this and possibly draw attention to the fact that there may be a need for further action. This is, after all, an area of great change in legislation, both at European level and with regard to the national adjustments described by the Government in order to deal with matters here and now. What may possibly be a little unsatisfactory is that we have not taken the discussion before. I believe that both our parties will have to bear the responsibility for this. Generally speaking, in politics, I believe that, now that technological development is progressing as fast as it does, we must begin to learn the art of thinking around corners to a greater extent than we have actually done. We need to start creating technology-neutral, well-functioning legislation before innovations are de facto more or less where man's property is and ensure that such regulations are in place earlier. This is a responsibility of all parties, and in view of the Council's response and the Council's referral, I think we can find a great deal of consensus here. I would like him to share this foresight with some of his colleagues, including the Minister for Infrastructure, who seems to be working in a different direction. With this, I would like to thank you for a good interpellation debate.
i-fca373ae079c9e62-97	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank you for a good interpellation debate. I feel that we will be able to move forward with the legislative project that we are now having. It is important that we do this so that we create the temporary legislation and make it through to May 2018, when the situation still changes due to the entry into force of the General Data Protection Regulation. Of course you can always talk about whether you're forward-looking or not. At the same time, we should know that we live in a world where in many ways things go faster than we have ever seen before. Technology is developing extremely fast. I think we were anticipating when we gave the camera surveillance investigation in 2015 this mission: to look at the drone issue. It raises very big questions, both technical and integrity issues. When the investigator comes back with his analysis, we will see if we need to do anything further in terms of regulation in this area. Thank you for a good debate!
