i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-0	Mr President, I would like to We will now consider the Social Security Committee's report 10 on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on incorrect payments in the field of social security. First of all, I would like to stress that we take very seriously the fact that there are wrong payments in our social security systems. Incorrect payments are made in all cases, and there may be errors for various reasons. Sometimes it's about the foolishness of the seeker. Sometimes it can be information that is misunderstood or forms and applications that are difficult to understand and fill in. I know there is ongoing work on improving both information and forms. Försäkringskassan also works constantly to improve the administrative support. Some proposals have come from the work of control officers and have led to changes in the early processing where some new control measures have been built in. Sometimes incorrect payments are made because of failure to inform the Social Insurance Agency about different tasks. Sometimes it is because someone has provided false information or false documents, i.e. deliberate action by the applicant with a view to obtaining compensation to which he is not entitled. This is a benefit crime. In everyday speech, it's called cheating. Since I have worked with welfare checks in my professional background, I could now tell you how and in what ways it can be cheated in our social security policies, but of course I will not. Mr President, I would like to We do not have any acceptance whatsoever for non-contribution offences and over-utilisation of compensation. When someone deceives our insurance policies, they commit a crime, not just against the state, but the fact is that they commit a crime against all of us – against me and against you. After all, we are all involved in financing our insurance policies, and then we must be able to trust that the right compensation will end up with the right recipient. It's a system we all benefit from. Therefore, there is constant work going on with this at Försäkringskassan. At government level, some things are also going on. There are now two ongoing investigation work on the issue of incorrect payments. One of them is the Delegation against over-exploitation and mispayments from the welfare system. One should, among other things, conduct scale studies and identify the need for changes. This work will be reported in 2019, and interim reports will be made continuously until then. The Government has also appointed a special investigator who is tasked with evaluating the grant crime law and taking a position on whether changes are needed and, if so, making proposals. This will be reported in August 2017. A proposal has also been submitted to the Riksdag regarding individual-level tasks in the work declaration. It is a short matter for employers to provide monthly information to their employees about paid compensation and tax deductions to the Swedish Tax Agency. The matter now lies with the Tax Committee and comes to a decision in this House in May. When this is then in place, it will simplify Försäkringskassan's work to obtain up-to-date and secure income data for the compensation cases based on income. The purpose of all that is done at Försäkringskassan, at the Government and in the Riksdag must be that it should be easy to do right but difficult to do wrong. Mr President, I would like to We red-green have submitted a separate opinion. We welcome the measures taken by the Government with determination to strengthen the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's efforts to counteract undue payments. Knowledge is needed in order to monitor and assess the evolution of the level of irregular payments. The darkness rate that exists makes measurements more difficult and requires different methods to be developed to assess the extent. The issues are complex, and studies are necessary to increase knowledge. However, we believe that there is a focus on this and that there is good work going on, through the missions and investigations that I mentioned earlier, in order to prevent over-exploitation and undue payments. We thus note that the Government has already taken the measures that are in line with the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations and requests in the motions to measure the amount of undue payments. Therefore, we find no reason to support an announcement.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-13	Mr President, I would like to We heard the representative of one of the government parties here just now. It was very wise that was said, and there is much that we agree on. It's obvious. But we don't agree on everything. Every squandered chandelier is a theft from the people. The worn-out quote comes, as most certainly know, from the Social Democrat Gustav Möller. The problem with the quote is that it certainly sounds good but on reflection is quite flat. Most people probably support the principle itself, but what is actually a squandered crown of taxes? Of course, there are differences between different groups and individuals. For example, I and my party friends believe that the countless billions that the rest of you have plowed into your joint, block-crossing, multiculturalist project are billions of wasted tax crowns and thus billions of thefts from the people. In the same way, there will undoubtedly be those in this House who have the same view of the efforts made by the Swedish Democratic Government at some point in the future. Perhaps some grouping thinks that strengthening Sweden's defence is a waste of tax revenue. Another group – probably largely overlapping with the former – may think that the Swedish democrats are wasting money when we reinstate the security of ordinary people and so on. The waste of tax crowns serves as rhetorical decoration, but not much more, because we do not agree on what is waste or what is not. I believe, however, that there is consensus among us politicians, possibly with a few exceptions, on how we view the tax chandeliers which, by cheating or mistake, go to someone who is not entitled to them. I think we agree that there should be as little of it as possible, and preferably not at all. The Swedish democrats' view of incorrect payments within the social security system is at least crystal clear. They shall be kept at a minimum level. Incorrect payments can be divided pedagogically into three categories: carelessness or other errors committed by Försäkringskassan, carelessness, ignorance or other errors committed by the beneficiary and outright cheating. The first two categories must be combated primarily within the Agency. Moreover, these affect both taxpayers and individuals who, where appropriate, experience financial trouble with repayments and unnecessary work. The agency needs better procedures, clearer design of applications and much more. Of course, such work is ongoing, and hopefully there are constant improvements. The latter category, cheating, needs to be tackled in the same way as other crimes – resolutely and with severe sanctions. In the end, to usurp money intended for the needy, not infrequently economically weak, is nothing more than the theft of vulnerable people in the sense of the Swedish Democrats. It can never be tolerated. Someone might think, "Why is he talking about this?" In fact, we are not discussing any proposals for concrete measures against fraud or negligence today. ..................................................... That's right. We are discussing a proposal from both the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats. The proposal originates from the Swedish National Audit Office and is a recommendation to instruct Försäkringskassan to report regularly how much the wrong payments cost. The Swedish democrats, and with the majority of the committee, think this is a good proposal, not because it is particularly funny, but because it is the first step towards better control, better opportunities for follow-up and better protection against theft from the people. If you are French, it is really incredibly difficult that there is no easily accessible and neatly presented information about the wrong payments since 2010. The Government rejects the stinging criticism of the Swedish National Audit Office on this point and refers to investigations and ongoing measures. That's a tactic you can think of what you want; I'm most surprised. I can't believe there's anything to argue about. I hope that all the measures taken by the government and all the investigations that are being put in place will be effective and that we can take advantage of the forthcoming routine of regular reporting of undue payments, which we will hopefully go through here in Parliament as early as this afternoon. For the sake of form, I am in favour of the committee's proposal that the Government should ensure that the Social Insurance Agency should measure the amount of undue payments on a regular basis.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-28	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has a generous and basically well-functioning social security system that we want to safeguard. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency annually pays more than SEK 200 billion in various benefits. It is about sickness benefit, parental benefit, temporary parental benefit in the care of a sick child and so on. For such a system to be sustainable in the long term, it is necessary that it is perceived as essential by citizens, that it is well managed and that it is as free as possible from abuse. But it also needs to be economically stable over time, as large fluctuations affect other areas of the state budget. In other words, it is reasonable to demand order and order within the systems and to make high demands that no undue subsidies or compensation should be paid. A first step in the fight against irregular payments is that we know how big the problem is and in which areas it is most extensive. Knowing the scope is important in order to be able to prioritise among the different measures and to estimate whether the work to combat irregular payments has had the desired effect. From KD's and the Alliance's side, we note that the most recent measurement of the extent of undue social security payments was made in 2010 and that, according to this measurement, the total errors in social security payments amounted to just under SEK 16 billion. However, the Social Insurance Agency has not carried out any new measurement thereafter. The government has not asked for any measurement either. Mr President, I would like to In this debate, we consider the Government's letter on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on incorrect payments in the area of social security. The Swedish National Audit Office has examined how the work against incorrect payments in social security works. It is estimated that this work has worryingly been prioritised over the last few years, despite the fact that studies have shown significant errors and that the level of recovery has been low. The Swedish National Audit Office also considers that knowledge of the extent of undue payments is required, both in order for the Government and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to prioritise efforts and in order to be able to estimate whether efforts made lead to the desired effect. For these reasons, and in order to better combat undue payments in the future, the Swedish National Audit Office recommends that the Government ensure that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency regularly measures the extent of undue payments. KD and the Alliance have heeded this. Together, we have put a proposal on the board of the Riksdag that the Government be required to ensure that the Social Insurance Agency regularly measures the amount of undue payments. On the basis of this information, more measures should be taken to strengthen controls where necessary and to ensure that taxpayers' money is not misused. The KD and the Alliance welcome the fact that a majority in the Riksdag seems to follow the same line. It will therefore be up to Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll and the Government to ensure that Parliament's will is respected, so that we can work more effectively to reduce the wrong payments. Mr President, I would like to One of Parliament's most important tasks is to ensure that taxes collected are effectively used and not abused. Citizens must be able to trust that this task is taken very seriously.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-39	Mr President, I would like to Today we are going to talk about a thin but frightening report called Information Security Work on nine agencies – A second review of information security in the state. I shall now show it to the Members of this House. It is being processed in government and committees, and we will decide later whether to add it to the documents. The report already feels passé. We read almost every day in the newspapers about various incidents. We are receiving reports from the United States that they have penetrated the Democratic Party's information system, that they have experimented with power stations in New England and that they have moved bills. There's always something going on that we should protect ourselves from. There have also been incidents in Sweden. There have been attacks on media houses, on banks and on individuals. There have also been a number of attacks that no one has known about. They have gone into the information systems and have not told us that they are there. They have then gone out and perhaps also changed. The report can be summarised in three points. The auditors believe that the information security work is insufficient, at a low level and that nothing has happened. You don't really have to say any more, because that's exactly what it is. The Swedish National Audit Office points to the fact that the nine authorities have been examined in depth three times and then concluded that the information security work in a number of other agencies and operations in Sweden is probably simply insufficient and at a too low level. Nothing's happened in the last few years. One might ask: What is the need for protection we are talking about? It's very simple. You can use three core words even there. First of all, the need for protection means that the information stored must be accurate and properly stored. No one should be able to change it. The second is that it should be available. You can't break the system so you can't access the information. It must be available to those who should have it. It is also important to maintain the existing confidentiality rules. Not everyone is supposed to be able to enter large information systems. Then why is it this strange way? Because the management of the activities is reasonably uninterested in information security work – not to mention the employees of the authorities. They are even more uninterested, because they think that security work steals time and energy from their important core business that they are really for. Security officials in IT departments and others are being squeezed between the disinterest of the managements and perhaps also ignorance and the eagerness of all officials to carry out their core activities and not take on security measures that might hinder them in their work. Mr President, I would like to I have my own experience in this. I've been the IT Security Manager and IT Manager, and I've been the head of these executives. I have been under pressure from the management that I would not cause any problems at work. I have also been exposed to the contempt of the employees, i.e. the colleagues, for the fact that I have been doing things that prevent them from doing more important tasks. This was at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, and it was many years ago, but it was just like that. So this is self-experienced, so I understand this report very well. Then there is always a feeling that the responsibility for information security work lies elsewhere. It is very difficult to get those who work with important information to understand that they are also responsible for managing the information. They must understand that it must be protected. But they think that there are some employees somewhere who protect the information, that it works much like the cleaning and the caretaker works. Why, then, should information security work not also work? The auditors come to the conclusion that the government must demand the incident reports that have been produced by the authorities for more than a year now when something has happened. However, if the government does not ask for these reports, the management will not believe that they are so important, and then it will not provide the necessary support for the information security work. It is my call from the pulpit that the government must routinely demand the reports and not use them as some kind of number game to say that there have been such and so many incidents. One must also try to understand what went wrong. What was the incident about? We often believe that there is some shady foreign power that exposes the authorities to attacks. It may occur, but very often it can be handling errors, lack of knowledge, errors in the material, errors in the server, error programming and bugs. There are many things that may have happened, and we need to analyse this in the report. MSB stands up and does a very good job, and it gets better and better. However, MSB cannot be asked for MSB to also provide operational support and assume operational responsibility for the authorities. This must be taken on by the authorities themselves, either by acquiring people who can or by purchasing consulting services. Some have proposed the creation of a kind of information security authority. It is a step in the wrong direction, because it simply means once again thinking that someone else should take responsibility. We must put pressure on the authorities to take this responsibility on their own. From moderate quarters, we've gone even a little further. There are two reservations, Nos 1 and 5, to which I naturally call for approval. We have been thinking a lot about: What is the individual's responsibility in this context? In other areas of society, if you work in health care or in traffic, you have a responsibility as a driver, a dog owner, also as an individual. However, in the area of information security, it is a little more unclear who is responsible. Much of the security work could be done if you had proper procedures for backup and if you were under security. The IT systems should have been vulnerable. Only approved software, known as white-listed goods, should be used. My experience is that in many places you think you have a kind of right to bring your own software and use it in the system. Of course, there is much that can happen, and certainly has happened. You have to have countermeasure training, just like in a fire when everyone through fire drills should know where the fire extinguisher is. If you see that there is an incident going on, you should have an idea as an administrator or manager of what to do. You have to test the systems. It is very rarely done, but it is quite interesting to do so. I have done it myself in my own system, and it turned out that it was very easy to get through the firewall. It is also necessary to test firewalls. So there is a great deal to do. It may be necessary to limit the number of powers that IT administrators have. Mr President, I would like to I am absolutely convinced that Parliament will come back to this in many cases until there is reasonable legislation in this area. To conclude, I would like once again to endorse reservations 1 and 5.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-60	Mr President, I would like to For time winning, I only apply for reservation 2. There's talk of cyber-defence. It's a fashion word. It seems that the more we talk about cyber-defence, the less we have to do about it. We don't like that. We believe that an IT defence is actually needed and that we will take action so that we will soon have one for real. We're not going to talk about the active cyber defence today. The active cyber-defence is, as a matter of priority, military tactical. We're going to talk about the passive cyber-defence, the one that's going to protect our information. We can read the Swedish National Audit Office's review. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed how nine authorities work with their information security and whether the government ensures that the audited authorities have effective internal control and control of their information security. The overall conclusion is that work on information security at the level of the audited authorities is too low. We can also read the government's agreement. The government broadly agrees with the observations and therefore intends to develop a national strategy for society's information and cyber security. Why did it take a National Audit Report to understand these weaknesses in the authorities? How long will it take for the government to do something concrete? We need a passive cyber defence that works. Policy and strategy should be ready a long time ago. The majority of the committee is also concerned that the audited authorities are at too low a level and do not appear to have developed sufficiently over time. Unless the Government does something, the Riksdag must deliver announcements in support of the Government's continued work. Of course, it is not the role of Parliament to go into detail. However, there are observations that cannot be considered as details, such as the fact that authorities have servers standing abroad, that all Swedish authorities agree with different technologies and consultants. If the information technology had set off during the last Cold War, the total defense would have been able to manage security wisely. Now you've decommissioned the total defense. There is therefore no control anymore. In spite of this, we must be able to move from policy and strategy to action now. At the latest in the next defence decision, it should be decided on an operational civil defence authority with departments for, inter alia, cyber-defence. The basic thinking in Swedish crisis management with the principle of responsibility, equality and proximity is quite right. The levels of crisis management – municipalities, county boards and government – are also a sensible balance. But what is missing is therefore a civil defence authority with operational resources. Let me guess that sooner or later, sensitive authorities will be given access to standard platforms with both hardware and software specifically designed to cope with attacks. We are therefore proposing that we begin to look at such developments right now. In addition to the vulnerability of each authority and within each fixed infrastructure, there is a vulnerability in the internet. We have uncritically taken advantage of the Internet's possibilities when we have built our control and management systems. The problem is that the internet we now have and share with the rest of the world can never be safe. It does not have such a structure. What we should want is a network of our own for Swedish authorities and defence-important companies. Swedish technology is still at the forefront; for example, we are the world leader in satellites with micro-technology. We therefore propose that research resources be allocated to assess the possibilities of building a secure government network. This can be done in the form of Nordic cooperation. Sweden has been the first with many things. If we continue to believe in Swedish engineering, it can continue to be so.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-78	Mr President, I would like to Mrs Klackenberg mentioned many interesting things in her speech, and that is easy to agree with. It is true both that we are now living at a time when we are receiving almost daily reports of intrusion, suspected intrusion, sabotage, etc., and that some of this may mask bad handling in general and bad systems. However, as I understand it, there is at least one properly documented case of harmful data abotage. It's as old as 2010. It was when the United States and Israel combined planted Stuxnet, a computer mask or Trojan horse, in Iran's uranium enrichment facilities. In this way they could delay the programme for a number of years. I don't know how well it's charged with all these new rumors, but we'll find out. Because, of course, this is happening all the time. I think it is good to remember that it is also happening from all kinds of sources, both private and public. Let me now turn to the report, Mr President. The committee proposes that the Parliament submit the letter on information security work to nine authorities. The committee believes, however, that the government's work on developing a national strategy for society's information and cyber security in the near future is commendable and that it is therefore not justified at the moment to take further action. It may sound reasonable and reasonable, but I really do not think so because of the long story. In the first place, it is perhaps not this government that should be blamed for what has happened historically, but it has happened regardless of party colour. The Swedish National Audit Office reviewed the work on information security in the state administration as early as 2005 – 2007. The audit revealed at least some 20 shortcomings. It may have happened. But the worst thing is that in a follow-up in 2014, it was found that in practice nothing had been done to address these shortcomings. This happened at the same time as addiction has increased and probably also the attacks, although it is difficult to know for sure. The Swedish National Audit Office also stated in its report that the information security work was not appropriate, in terms of the threats and risks that exist. The report notes that technological developments have accelerated and that the risks to which an organisation is exposed are increasing and can be expected to increase in the future. Few authorities can provide comprehensive answers to how well developed the work on information security is. We just don't know what's going on. The rapid development of the information society is constantly creating new opportunities and thereby new risks and threats. We are talking about abolishing physical money. We're supposed to have e-health, where everything is stored in a technological way that we didn't have before. This constantly creates increased risks. The Left Party and I therefore believe that Parliament must make distinct demands in this area. A timetable should be established and sanctions for those authorities that do not meet acceptable information security requirements should be considered. I therefore propose that reservation 3 be accepted. After eleven years of electoral power, a timetable is now of the utmost importance. But what about sanctions? Yeah, they used to say that the body part where it hurt the most was the right buttock, that is, where the wallet was. I think that is still the case, even at the level of the authorities. From now on, the Riksdag will probably say no to the idea of sanctions – this time. However, the issue of sanctions against authorities that do not maintain cyber security will continue to exist anyway. The reason is that Sweden will implement an EU directive on cyber security in network and information systems, the NIS Directive. It is a regulatory framework that will tighten the requirements. It is the same NIS directive that Minister Ygeman in Sälen highlighted as an instrument to increase the level of safety in this area, both in Sweden and in other Member States. The investigation that is currently working on reviewing how Swedish law should comply with the requirements of the EU directive analyses, among other things, how sanctions should be used and whether they should also be directed at public actors. According to Richard Oehme, head of cybersecurity and the protection of socially important activities at MSB, the issue is on the table. It is not easy, but within the framework of the EU directive we are looking at the issue. It is not common for me to stand here and pay homage to EU directives, but even a blind hen can find some barley, as it is usually called. In other words, it is time to get going after all these years when almost nothing has happened when the risks, threats and use have increased. For so far, safety has not been developed directly at the same speed as the digital signals rushing through the fibre cables. Rather, it has developed as slowly as when you had to warn your surroundings with the help of carecas on the rocks.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-92	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on information security work at nine authorities. Before I go further, allow me to endorse the Christian Democrats' reservation in this report, reservation 4. Sweden has great challenges when it comes to defence. This is about military defence, which we laid down too quickly. It's very easy to close down, but it's another thing to build up. But it is not only the military response that we see challenges for, but also civil defence. We have reason to discuss this today. More recently, important information has come to the Swedish people. We in this House have also just heard the FRA tell us that every month Sweden is exposed to 10 000 cyber attacks by, not to mention, foreign power. There are also IT spies working full time to extinguish Sweden and make hundreds of thousands of people powerless. Let us, as Members of this House, imagine for a moment what significance it would have in a particular situation, in a situation of crisis, if all this happened. What would happen to our resistance? It is important that we see this – military threats are, of course, also very important. We must take action. In the near future we have the example of the American elections, as has been mentioned here before. In principle, it is 100% certain that Russia acted and worked to influence the elections. How much it affected, however, is not known. In Norway there was a report this weekend that they are almost convinced that Russia has made attacks that have had major consequences for, among other things, the armed forces. We cannot stick our heads in the sand, we must act. Several previous speakers have presented this report. It shows, among other things, that a report was made ten years ago that was not positive. Some measures were taken. The sad thing now ten years later is that the problems are still there. Nothing's happened. This is where the government fails to act. The authorities involved are those who have important social activities, handle a lot of money, are highly cyber-dependent and handle security-worthy information. So these aren't little things. It is also concluded that it is not effective. It costs a lot of tax money. There are different levels, and there is no basic level. This affects safety and makes Sweden more vulnerable. What kind of government agencies have been looked at? Yes, it is Arbetsförmedlingen, Försäkringskassan, Migrationsverket, Svenska Kraftnät, Sjöfartsverket and several others. In every example it turns out that it does not work well. There are a lot of flaws that are highlighted. MSB provides guidance, but one suffers a huge lack of operational assistance, something that MSB does not offer today. One lacks operational support, that is, the most important thing: how to do it. You are then referred to having your own IT departments, and in most cases it is as we know IT consultants who make up different systems. What the Swedish National Audit Office lands in is that a central function should be set up that could be given this task. This is quite interesting for the Christian Democrats, because we have been very clear for many years that Sweden, like a large number of other countries, would need to have a central authority that has responsibility. Now it is divided into a number of different authorities, and the responsibility of many is nobody's responsibility, as we all know. That's why it's so important that someone gets the responsibility. Should a new cybersecurity authority be set up, or should responsibility be placed on an existing authority? You can look at that, but the most important thing is that we do something. Now this is not going to change everything, but there will be some and something that is being asked for. Now I hope that the government will take this on board and create a central authority that can take responsibility and ensure that we strengthen protection against the various cyber attacks. If the worst thing were to happen, then this is essentially tantamount to a conventional attack. That is why it is so important that we take these measures. With these words, Mr President, I once again support the Christian Democrats' reservation.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-106	Mr President, I would like to The fact that the Swedish National Audit Office reviews and rejects the IT security work at our authorities has become something of a boring sequel to us in the Riksdag. This is the second time during this parliamentary term that the Swedish National Audit Office returns with a rather disappointing report on the IT security work at the authorities. The latest review, which we are discussing today, reveals new shortcomings. I'm not going through them all. Some of my colleagues in the committee have mentioned a few points. What I find directly remarkable is the Swedish National Audit Office's claim that the demands of the IT security functions tend to be regarded as obstacles, as something that stands in the way of the other activities of the authorities. Then you have a serious problem. In the private sector, we can often hear how it is emphasised that cybersecurity issues need to be considered as strategic issues that should lie with the CEO, with the management and ultimately with the board. In the same way, you can interpret the Swedish National Audit Office's conclusions and recommendations in this area; from the government through government agencies down to individual employees, systematic and continuous security work is needed. It does not necessarily need to be the technical systems that are flawed. There are in the world of government, especially in the more protective authorities, advanced technical systems. But these systems will not be worth much if they fail in other parts. It should, Mr President, by now be clear to everyone what potential risks there are of careless IT security work. Today, society is completely dependent on functioning IT systems in public transport, energy systems, financial systems, traffic management and so on. When these systems work, we often take them for granted. When they are down for various reasons, the vulnerability of modern society quickly becomes very clear. With the current defence decision, it is stated that a total defence planning plan will be resumed. One reflection you can make is that society's dependence on information technology has increased very strongly during the 15-year break in total defence planning. One could almost call it an unfortunate coincidence, because total defence is not only about shell protection, infrastructure and such things, but also about a mindset, that is, about how we think about these things, for example how we handle sensitive information. Of the three agencies that have been thoroughly audited by the Swedish National Audit Office, two are the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and the Swedish Migration Agency, so-called guard authorities, which means that they have a special responsibility in case of increased preparedness. What is being done, and what has been done on the part of the government? Since barely a year ago, we now have a mandatory IT incident reporting in place. The reporting obligation refers to incidents that may seriously affect the security of information management. Incident reporting enables an improved situation picture. It creates the conditions for taking the right protective measures, and it provides a basis for developing the ability to prevent, detect and manage incidents. In order to further strengthen information security, MSB will be tasked with providing sensor systems to detect cyber attacks, approximately the same way that the FRA has provided such services. For the past year, as mentioned earlier, a government investigator has been working on developing measures for how Sweden will implement the NIS Directive. This is where the focus is to give MSB a coordinating role, while maintaining the responsibility of other authorities for supervision in their sectors. The goal is for societal stakeholders, such as banks and healthcare, to also report serious cyber incidents. Mr President, I would like to Finally, the government's work on a national information security strategy should be mentioned in this context. The strategy, which is expected to be presented this summer, will set clear targets and a direction for the overall information security work.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-115	Mr President, I would like to Digitalisation is one of today's major global trends. Twenty years ago, the PC became popular. Today, many of us are surfing on our mobile phone instead. In the future, we will see the digitisation of an increasing number of devices, from the automotive industry, with self-driving cars, to the public sector, where various programs and technologies can help us to keep down health costs while providing better health care. But as we become increasingly dependent on technology, we also become increasingly vulnerable. Technology can always be used for both good and evil purposes. Bad IT security therefore poses a threat, both to personal integrity and – in the wider perspective – to our national security. Of course, these threats can be illustrated in various ways. As mentioned earlier, it could be an attempt to destroy socially important institutions or structures such as electrical safety systems. It can be about wanting to influence different democratic processes. It can also, of course, be a question of obtaining sensitive information about authorities or people, who can be used at a later stage to influence overall defence capabilities, if the opponent wishes to do so. The Swedish National Audit Office's report, which is the subject of the report we are discussing here today, clearly shows that there is much that needs to be done to strengthen the cybersecurity of our authorities. The report notes that there are serious shortcomings and that work has also progressed slowly. That is something we must take seriously. Knowledge about security issues must be available to all authorities dealing with sensitive infrastructure or information. MSB has a lot of knowledge, but it's not enough. More authorities need similar skills. Raising the competence of individuals working with security issues at public authorities is important, but just as important is that the general safety awareness among other staff is also there. Safety cannot be optional or something for enthusiasts, but must have a broad foundation in the organisation. The government has announced the development of a national strategy for social, information and cyber security. It is an important step on the road to more coherent work on the issues. An important target group for the strategy is the authorities. The Government has also set up an investigation to propose how the EU Directive on a high common level of security in network and information systems, i.e. the NIS Directive, should be implemented in Swedish law. We live in a time where Säpo warns that we had over 100,000 activities from state foreign attackers against Swedish targets last year. Our society is becoming increasingly vulnerable to cyber interference. So called hybrid warfare, where various tools, including digital ones, are used in harmony to influence an opponent's freedom of action, are increasingly talked about in the security policy contexts. We all have to gain from strengthening the work on cybersecurity. The national strategy is a good step in this direction. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-124	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The Swedish National Audit Office's report, as well as several reports from the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness, including the national risk and ability assessment, shows that society's work on information and cyber security needs to be properly developed. The problem picture described in the Swedish National Audit Office's report can be applied to many other actors in society, from individual municipalities to county boards and other central authorities – all who carry out some form of socially important activities. It is serious that the shortcomings are still so great. We have heard many examples, but when the understanding of information security is not sufficient, the priorities are different and the issue is not raised in relation to core business there is much to do. This focus must apply to the entire operation and permeate all work. Synergies must also be found between different authorities so that they can learn from each other and develop common ways of working. Information security has increasingly become a matter of protecting the whole of society and has a growing security policy dimension, which has been brought up to date not least in the context of the US presidential elections, where databases have been the subject of intrusion. We also see that the interaction between traditional and electronic crime is increasing and becoming increasingly complex. Questions about privacy and privacy arise when information about ourselves is found in more and more systems – systems that may not always, as the Swedish National Audit Office's report shows, have adequate protection. In short, information security work is important and must be taken very seriously. This applies to the authorities that are governed by the government, but it also applies to many other actors that carry out important social activities. The issue of creating a good level of information security at community level is therefore wider and requires our strongest political commitment. Mr President, I would like to We are living in a time of uncertainty in security policy and the situation is gradually deteriorating. Hybrid threats, increased intelligence, impact operations, information warfare and cyber attacks are examples that show how vulnerable we are in today's society and that society is gradually exposed to more pressure. Swedish authorities have begun to resume total defence planning. This, in turn, places even greater demands on the security and protection of information. This applies to both electronic and physical information. Not all information may even be stored electronically or stored in normal premises. Most actors are currently in ordinary working environments, and few have access to wiretap safe premises. This may hamper and hamper the implementation of the overall defence planning. Not least, major measures must be taken to ensure that appropriate environments exist, and this will involve additional money and investment. This risks putting individual employees in a difficult situation and making total defence work more difficult to work. It is unfortunate at a time when work on information security needs to be intensified. How the government intends to ensure that authorities and others responsible for total defence planning are given the right conditions to conduct credible total defence planning in a secure way, we will have to come back to. The government has now promised a national cyber and information security strategy, and it is important to follow up how the overall defence needs will be taken into account in that strategy. It will be important to follow up on how the Government's strategy will be put into practice, what concrete measures will be taken and what resources will be prioritised or allocated to develop capacity and strengthen protection. This is a reality already today, and the area requires strong political commitment, political follow-up and political governance. As the auditors note that political governance should have been clearer on this issue, the responsibility and the task now is to ensure that the necessary measures are taken in the short term. My concern, however, is that this will be another government strategy with a little guidance on how, compared to what can be described. Among other things, we can look at the national security strategy, which in principle is more like a risk list than the strategy of a concrete measure.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-137	Mr President, I would like to You have to do it again a little bit so as not to repeat what everyone else has said. I have a few things that I think confirm our position. We need a civil defence authority, Mr President. If you read the Swedish National Audit Office's report, it is quite clear that the authorities rarely compile their vulnerability and risk analysis. It has also been pointed out that coordination is needed, as you have heard me say many times from here. I have said that, Mr President, and I will repeat it: without good coordination of activities, nothing will work well. Everywhere you read about collaboration, collaboration and collaboration. Coordination is needed. The task of coordinating activities is not on MSB. We need an authority responsible for this. That is why we have been advocating a civil defence authority for many years. It should not have the same tasks as it had before it was closed, but in many cases a return to an authority that coordinates the county administrative board and so on is needed. It is also a question of dealing with these issues. That's the one thing I wanted to say. The second is that we are talking about sanctions against the authorities. I was thinking that perhaps one should look at the leadership and leadership of the state authorities. Are we to accept, Mr President, that year after year there is severe criticism in various areas and that a new audit reveals serious errors in other parts? How long is this supposed to last? Mr President, I would like to I was thinking about what it's like in a football game. When you play and say something rude to the judge, you get a word. Then it goes for a while, and you speak a little inappropriately. Then you get called to the judge and get a yellow card. The event itself leads to an acknowledgment, but the repetition gives a yellow card. The third time the judge picks up a red card. The event itself leads to an acknowledgment, but the repetition leads to resignation – out of the plan! We also need to consider whether this can be a way instead of other sanctions in the form of fines or something else. If, according to the Swedish National Audit Office, the repetitions in the state authorities with such important functions are so frequent that the situation is so substandard, I wonder whether we should allow the current leadership to continue. We have not put forward any proposals on this, but these are concerns that we will come back to. When you look back at what the Swedish National Audit Office writes about different authorities, you see that this parameter must also be included.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-144	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the Constitutional Committee's report 7, to be strengthened in the protection of private employees in publicly funded activities. The committee endorses the reasons for the proposed law set out in the bill and endorses the law with two adjustments. In order to allow employers and the social partners time to adapt to the new Act on Noise Protection, the committee proposes that the Act should enter into force on 1 July this year. The committee also proposes an adjustment in view of the proposed entry into force of the new health legislation on 1 April this year. The new law essentially means that employees, contractors and others who participate on a similar basis in professional activities within school, health and social care that are to some extent publicly funded shall have the same right as public employees to provide information on the activities for publication in the media covered by the Freedom of the Press Regulation or the Freedom of Expression Act. The operator is prohibited from researching who has exercised his freedom of communication or contributed to a constitutionally protected petition and must not subject that person to any negative action as a result. The proposed law also provides for penalties for those who intervene or search in violation of the law. Only the Chancellor of Justice is competent to adopt such measures under certain conditions. Other authorities and other general bodies are therefore prohibited from researching. What do we mean when we say research? It is an expression which has a broad meaning and which includes all forms of enquiry and action aimed at finding out who has left a task or published it. The prohibition of repression means that an authority or other general body may not intervene against anyone because that person has exercised his or her right to freedom of print and expression. The prohibition applies to all measures which have a negative impact on the individual. This includes, in principle, any criticism of a worker for having been in contact with the media. However, only measures involving dismissal, dismissal, notification of disciplinary sanctions or the like are punishable. The Government considers that public disclosure protection in publicly funded activities needs to be strengthened and proposes that employees, contractors and others who, on a similar basis, participate in professionally operated individual activities within school, health and social care that are to some extent publicly funded should be entitled to this. However, labour market conditions have changed in recent years. A not insignificant part of the activity that has previously been a matter for society to carry out is currently run by private operators. In cases where the general public has previously carried out a particular activity on its own initiative but instead chooses to purchase the service from an external operator, this means that the employees are no longer covered by protection against the employer. The public's ability to gain visibility and control how tax money is spent has thus been reduced. If a contractor's connection to the core business, i.e. the activities that school, health care or care are entrusted by law, is too vague, the contractor will not be covered by the notice protection. The law covers only the right to provide information on the activity in question. Protection does not imply any right to disclose documents, which may be useful to know. The Government considers that the need for enhanced protection of informants outweighs protection against the risk of disclosure of trade secrets in a limited number of cases. Business secrets should therefore fall within the scope of the law. According to the Government, this is also in line with the fact that the disclosure protection in individual operations but publicly funded activities should, as far as possible, correspond to the disclosure protection in public-sector activities. The right to provide information under the proposed law shall not apply if it is provided by law that the information is covered by the obligation of professional secrecy. It is a matter of confidentiality that protects individuals' personal circumstances. The same shall apply to professional secrecy agreed or decreed under the Law on the Status of Trustees in the Workplace or the Act on Participation in the Workplace. Mr President, I would like to I myself am a nurse and have worked as a private employee personal assistant in publicly funded activities for 14 years. I love my job, and I am glad that I and all the other workers of the trade union Kommunal in particular finally get the chance to enjoy the same protection in our workplaces and that we can communicate serious abuses in the same way that the civil servants have been entitled to through two of our constitutions, the Freedom of the Press Act and the Freedom of Expression Basic Law, for a long time. It is a profit for taxpayers, good employees and good employers. Finally!
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-159	Mr President, I would like to Last Parliamentary Session, the Constitutional Committee made a unanimous announcement in support of, among other things, a motion in a moderate party motion and called on the government to speed up the preparation of an investigation proposal on strengthening the protection of private employees in activities that are wholly or partly publicly funded. We are therefore talking, as Veronica Lindholm mentioned, about school, care and care. An investigation report on the matter had been submitted to the Alliance Government in 2013. Time passed, and Sweden got a new government. Nothing happened. In the KU, we Members became impatient – hence the announcement. We Moderates have long been safeguarding the protection of trade secrets. This protection is important because entrepreneurs who invest time and money in the development and growth of their businesses must have the right to enjoy the fruits of their work. Innovative companies generate jobs and create tax revenue for the benefit of all, and therefore it is also reasonable for legislation to provide legal protection for trade secrets. Having said that, at the same time in Sweden we have a long tradition of civil servants being able to freely contact constitutionally protected media and be protected from reprisals if they reveal irregularities in the public sector in which they work. However, as school, health care and care activities have come to be carried out also in the private sector, it has become increasingly important that the unique Swedish principle of freedom of communication for public employees needs to be extended to the same extent to private employees in publicly funded activities, even to the extent that the protection of information would conflict with legislation on the protection of trade secrets. As the report shows, I would like to mention in particular that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Industry has, during the preparation of this matter, courted the Constitutional Committee with letters in the act of trying to obtain an exception in the Business Secrets Act. However, a unanimous KU, like the government, considers that, as stated in the bill and as Veronica Lindholm mentioned, the interest in the protection of private employees in publicly funded activities is more important than the protection against the risk of disclosure of trade secrets in a limited number of cases. In addition, the legal protection of trade secrets always has its limits and the current legislation does not provide an absolute guarantee that trade secrets will not be leaked. Mr President, I would like to It is important for us legislators to uphold the principle that private employees in publicly funded activities should have a level of protection equivalent to that of civil servants. It is then not possible to make exceptions for a particular type of data in one case but not in the other. This similarity between public activities and publicly funded private activities is achieved by the proposal contained in the KU report, which I hereby call for.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-168	Mr President, I would like to A while ago, I saw the movie Snowden about the CIA employee whistleblower Edward Snowden. The film tells how he got a job at the CIA by being able to program very quickly and well, how he gradually rises in the degrees within the organization and in parallel gets to see much more of people's privacy than he really wanted to see. Above all, he began to react more and more to what was legal and what was not. In 2013, he leaked thousands of classified CIA documents to The Guardian and The Washington Post and could then reveal that the United States and the United Kingdom were conducting top-secret surveillance of individuals, politicians and companies worldwide. The captions of the film explain that, following the revelations in many areas, the United States has had to change its legislation. Sweden has also had famous whistleblowers. Many remember Ingvar Bratt, who told about the Bofors store, and Sara h Wägnert, who told about neglect in the care. Even in their case, the leaking of information led to major changes. These are people who have also become known. The proposal that we have on our table today may often be about the slightly smaller changes that we hope to bring about. Meddeldelsskyddet contains several parts: freedom of communication, freedom of procurement, right to anonymity, prohibition of research and prohibition of repression. This whole package of protection is now being extended not only to those who work in the state, county councils and municipalities but also to those who work in private activities that are publicly funded. Veronica Lindholm has made clear earlier in the debate how the proposal itself looks in detail. I believe that greater security is welcome for those who provide information on the activities and hopefully thereby help to detect abuses. This, in turn, can improve the quality of the activities and strengthen the position of users. It is also important that public transparency in health care and education is not lost when a business has been procured. As Maria Abrahamsson has highlighted earlier in the debate, the committee has also looked at the arguments put forward by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. I share her argument that trade secrets may be important, but that the protection of the total credibility of healthcare, school and care is more important. I support the committee's proposal.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-175	Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Constitutional Affairs supports, from all parties, this proposal to provide the same protection as those who work in public-run businesses, schools and care services that are not publicly driven but paid with tax revenue. This means that, as an employee, even in private activities in schools, health care and social care, you should be able to provide information to the media about irregularities in the workplace, i.e. information on such things as it is considered necessary to take note of, without the employer being able to find out who provided the information or in any way expose the person who is believed to have provided the information to negative actions due to the disclosure of the information. I believe that, as far as possible, publicly operated and privately operated activities should have the same rules for their activities. It is, of course, not positive for those who run a business if newspapers, radio or television pay attention to shortcomings in their activities, but for patients, students, employees, society and taxpayers it is important that activities that are paid with tax funds can be examined by the media. This therefore needs to apply to both public and private-run healthcare, school and care activities. It should be mentioned that agreements on the freedom of communication for employees in privately operated activities that we are now proposing legislation on already exist in collective agreements between trade unions and quite a few companies in the fields of activity to which the legislation is now applicable. It is important to stress that disclosure protection applies only to information provided by employees to media with responsible publishers, i.e. to newspapers, radio and television. It is then the responsibility of the responsible publisher to ensure that the data published are audited and accurate. The benefit protection does not therefore apply to information about conditions in the workplace that employees spread on Facebook or Twitter or that are otherwise disclosed. Mr President, I would like to I call for the proposal of the Constitutional Committee to be endorsed in the report.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-181	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that today I can support the proposal in report KU7, strengthening the protection of private employees in publicly funded activities. This report therefore implements the Government's proposal with the same name, and it is an urgent step forward. The proposals in the bill are based on, which is also mentioned initially in the bill, an agreement concluded between the Left Party and the government parties after the 2014 elections in order to strengthen democracy and efficiency in our common welfare sector in various ways. It is also the same agreement that forms the basis for an investigation into order and order in welfare that is now being consulted and discussed extensively. In terms of public access and transparency, there are some other proposals, announced proposals and ongoing processes that together point a direction in the reform process. As many others have said, the proposal we are dealing with today is to equate, as far as possible, the protection of employees in private but publicly funded activities with the protection of those working in full public service. The issue of extending rights in purely public activities to more private employees has indeed been long-winded under several governments. It is therefore gratifying that there is at last a concrete legislative proposal on the table of Parliament and that the House will be able to approve the proposal later today. The present proposal introduces enhanced protection of whistleblowers by means of a specific law. The field of impact of the law is professionally conducted individual activities which are partly publicly funded and which in principle concern the welfare areas of care, school and care. As many certainly know, there is already constitutional protection for freedom of expression for everyone against the general with certain clearly specified exceptions. If you are a public employee, you also have protection against the employer, which is then seen as a representative of the public. In my opinion, enhanced protection is needed for all employees. Working life is a major part of life for most people and plays a crucial role in the functioning of a society. Of course, it is particularly clear that the rights of employees in public activities should not be restricted simply because a certain activity in health care, school or care changes ownership. Of course, when the public sector is involved in paying for the business, it is very reasonable that those rights should be included. It is the latter that is now proposed to become a law. If you work in welfare activities that are to some extent publicly funded, you will enjoy enhanced protection. This is good for the employees but of course also for the quality of the welfare activities and for the safety of the users – the citizens – especially in situations where, as the government states in the bill, people are in some form of dependence on the performer. This will make it particularly important for employees to be able to provide further information on possible maladministration. This actually highlights, as we can see, a fundamental problem with commercial profit motives in welfare activities. Most citizens expect welfare activities to function differently from those of other business units on perfectly reasonable grounds. At the same time, however, the profit motive creates an incentive to want to conceal negative conditions that can affect purely economic performance. It is, of course, a good thing that an extension of the protection of informants in this way can partially counteract those effects. Mr President, I would like to In this context, I would like to emphasise that we in the Left Party agree with the many consultation bodies calling for enhanced protection of whistleblowers for other types of publicly funded activities than those currently affected by the bill. However, as the government states in the bill, an investigation has already been set up with the aim of strengthening the protection of communications in other private but partly publicly funded activities. That investigation will present its mission in May, and I look forward to those results also leading to a bill and a decision in this House. It is also gratifying that it is a united committee that supports the proposal. It is good that transparency sometimes has a value that enjoys broad support in the Swedish Parliament. It is nevertheless interesting to note that the proposal has been rejected by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, Almega, the Entrepreneurs and the National Association of Free Schools. It is well to some extent telling how strengthened rights and freedoms in working life have been aching through the years and in our time. Workers and their organisations will have to nag and push on in the future too to get in place rights that at best are eventually seen as a natural part of the Swedish social model. Mr President, I would like to Although this is a welcome legislative proposal, it would be naive and wrong to believe that the design of laws and regulations concerning freedom of expression and protection of the public is what alone decides what actually comes to the surface of and around workplaces. The real strength of the free word comes into being only when those who work feel reasonably confident in speaking to one another and with the management. In this way, workplaces can be improved, so that the activities can be more efficient, and then hazards for staff and users can be more easily detected and addressed. In practice, therefore, such things as job security and organisational traditions are at least as important in this context. The growing fragmentation of wage and salary earners in permanent employees, fixed-term employees, agency workers, seconded workers, contractors and so on make union organisation difficult. As a result, workers in precarious and precarious employment sometimes do not dare to make demands to the same extent as permanent workers. Workplaces where people are afraid of losing their job are happy to be quiet workplaces. Worse employment security and working conditions for certain groups also ultimately affect the prospects for good working conditions for everyone. Improved job security is therefore good for the whole labour market and is also an important issue of freedom in our society. It requires work on many fronts. The steps we are taking today with amended legislation are a step in the right direction.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-193	Mr President, I would like to The police authority has a large and broad mission to prevent crime and create security, which includes an incredible amount of work. This applies to everything from chasing criminals with guns to showing their radio car to curious preschool children. But the police are in a situation of high workload, and much is happening in Sweden right now, not least in the criminal world. Shootings on the open street have increased, unfortunately as has the number of deaths, which is extremely serious. And that is why it is good that the police should not perform more tasks than necessary. A clean-up of the police's tasks is welcome, and the debate today is that the police should not carry out unnecessary transport that another authority can do just as well – in this case the Prison Service. The Left Party welcomes it. However, as well as the government initiative on reindeer farming, there are many other political proposals that the government, along with other parties in this House, wholeheartedly supports that give the police more to do. It is border controls that are being extended and which are a major burden on the police in the south. It is a region that is heavily burdened with an increase in criminal activity in Malmö. At the same time, the Finnish Immigration Service's forecast is that the number of refugees is decreasing. Yet the government extends border controls. We are strongly critical of this. The Government also proposes that the Migration Agency should be able to request assistance, assistance, from the police to expel persons from the Migration Agency's housing facilities. In addition to the fact that the government's asylum policy has led to more vulnerability and poverty among asylum seekers, the police's already high workload will now lead to the expulsion of people to countries that are not safe. I find it difficult to understand why we in the Committee on Justice should streamline the police's work when the government puts forward legislative proposals in other committees that give the police more to do. One hand doesn't know what the other hand is doing. Take responsibility for the police! Take responsibility for migration policy! This applies to both the government and all bourgeois parties. You are maintaining the difficult situation of the police by constantly giving it more duties. It's irresponsible. Be consistent! It's the Left Party. Mr President, I would like to Today, the Prison Service carries out transport on behalf of other authorities. It's about transporting defendants to court hearings or to medical visits. There is an established practice that is used, and most of it works well. It is therefore no problem that the Prison Service carries out more transport. The Left Party wants two things. First of all, we do not want joint transport between the Prison Service's own clients and those who are transported under different laws on forced care. It is an opinion that both the JO and JK share. There is a practice today that such combined transport should not take place, but we want it to be regulated. Secondly, we want to ensure that the penal services receive the necessary training for the new assignment. We must ensure that the requirements of competence, safety and dignity are met when the transport of different categories of detainees takes place. The fact that the Correctional Service carries out more transports is a good thing. But if you think that this proposal will streamline the police's tasks, then you have to be politically blind to any other bill that has been or will be put through that will give the police more to do.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-204	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support the proposal in the report in the usual manner. Sometimes the political work results in bona fide headlines and pucks and fanfare. Sometimes it is the policy of the small steps, small twists in fine systems. Sometimes there are small reforms that are barely noticeable. Sometimes whole systems are dismantled if some politicians get the opportunity and time to do so, but all that is usually about this kind of fine mechanics. In short, today it is a matter of the authority best placed to carry out certain tasks. In this case, it is the transport activity of the Prison Service. Prison services are today a fairly prosperous authority. It is Sweden's fourth largest authority. Ellen and I will have about a month to discuss this further. However, we note that the Agency has undergone the organisational steel bath in which the police are still in part. We can see that the Prison Service has a largely non-alcoholic and drug-free environment. We can see that the number of escapes is basically zero. We can also see, which is by far the most gratifying, that the proportion that relapses into crime is decreasing. The conclusion is that we believe that the Prison Service is well equipped to face new and expanded challenges, and this is a challenge. There are currently 400 people working in the Prison Service's transport operations, and well over 10,000 transports per year are carried out. With the present proposal, the scope will be dramatically increased. The police alone carry out at least 30 000 - 35 000 handcuffs per year. It is rising and has been so since 2012. This means that the Prison Service will have to scale up its activities. It will pose some challenges in terms of education, as Linda described. You have a basic education in 20 weeks. You're gonna have to deal with this in a good way. The advantage of the Prison Service peeling up is that the Prison Service is located throughout the country. We often do not exist in areas or places where we already have an overheated labour market. The prison services have with their prisons and detention centres placements even where the other state administrations have closed the store. Without actually having it as an overall goal – the penal services have other goals – they have thus retained their regional policy mission. Thus, this effect coincides with the fact that it is in many of these areas that the police today are under severe pressure and have very few police officers on patrol in external service. If we can relieve these police officers of their core areas of crime prevention and control, we have achieved an important objective of the new police reform, namely the effective police work. Annika may go into more detail about what this means, but at least we have a number of announcements. After all, the majority of Parliament has pushed the government into this. Sometimes we can see that announcements are a good means. It is one of Parliament's instruments for influencing politics. Sometimes it's about the famous open doors that you break in when things are already going on. But these announcements should be taken seriously. You can see here and now that we do. We have a number of investigations that are about transforming the police's operations. It is about animal welfare activities or animal management of various kinds. This could be data which customs and coastguards have had to take over and which have been refined. It is about hiring civilian workers when uniformed or police trained staff are needed elsewhere in the organisation. There can also be huge improvements in efficiency through better IT tools. Here we see a strong light in recent years. Finally, the tools have come to the police that they have longed for for so long. At the same time, we have the tough external factors, which have not reduced the need to rationalise and find new solutions, but rather increased it. We have a lot of hands-on cases that are about meeting the migration challenges we have. Regardless of what you think about asylum policy itself, they must be dealt with. We have greater challenges in the area of security policy, and we have bottlenecks that make us unable to scale up the police organisation to the extent we would have liked. As you stand here in the speaker's chair, calling out that you want x a thousand new police officers, everyone in this room knows that it takes their round time before those policemen can get to work. It is even difficult to fill the seats at the Police College as it is today. Therefore, this type of decision is absolutely crucial for the police to be relieved and to do a better job. I won't speak much more. I think the proposal is well balanced. Discussions have been held on whether or not to co-transport and whether it should be regulated. In the report, we and the government have come to terms with the practice that exists today: that health facilities that can make transport themselves make them as much as possible. However, where various types of coercive measures are needed, the police and, above all, the Prison Service should be given greater opportunity to transport. We cannot see that the Prison Service would be less suited to transport a mentally ill person than the police, who have been doing so for a long time. We see that the level of education for the specific type of transport can be significantly higher in the Prison Service than in the police. If necessary, if this goes beyond control, the legislative process will have to be reviewed a little later.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-220	Mr President, I would like to In the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs, we debate the police a great deal, and I am taking this opportunity to do so today too. As I have already said, the Left Party welcomes the clean-up of police duties. But I cannot understand how the government is reasoning and why you Social Democrats, by not standing up for the right of asylum, are giving the police more to do. By continuing to extend border controls, you are giving the police more to do. This puts the police in a worse position to do the most important work they have, namely crime prevention. This gives the police less opportunity to investigate the shootings in Malmö when they will instead control borders and ID cards on trains. Do the government and the Social Democrats know what you do when, on the one hand, you try to streamline the police's tasks and, on the other hand, do the police give so much more work?
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-223	Mr President, I would like to Linda Snecker is well aware that an enormous amount of police resources was needed initially when the large group of refugees came over not least the Öresund Bridge in autumn 2015. Policemen had to go all the way from Norrland down to Malmö to work and try to deal with the situation there. Today it is still a burden in Region Skåne. But it is not by far at the level that it was initial. Much more security guards have been used here. Different types of spot checks are used, and there is a much smaller impact on the police resource in general. It is handled in a balanced way when it comes to migration. This is not a debate on migration policy. The reservations you have in the Left Party are about co-transport. There we have explained a little because we basically share the same view. You're not supposed to co-transport groups. But we do not see the need for legislation. The thing about the reservations themselves.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-225	Mr President, I would like to It is true that we fully agree on transport itself, even if you prefer practice and v in legislation. I appreciate you saying, Pet t er Löberg, that border controls have probably played their part because the large number that came in 2015 is no longer coming. It's the same thing as the Migration Agency says in its forecast. Despite all this, the government continues with the border controls, which give the police more to do. I am very concerned about the proposal that comes to the Social Security Committee, which also concerns the police. The Finnish Immigration Service should be able to request assistance from the police. The police will help to push away a foreigner who is no longer entitled to assistance in the form of accommodation at a location in a facility. The aim of the proposal is to enable people from residents who are not entitled to remain there to be evicted more quickly. This is something that the police and the Law Council are opposed to. In addition to that, the government does even more things that give the police more to do. I can list a few things. There are increased opportunities to carry out risk-based workplace inspections. As a social democrat, you should hear it make you shudder all over your body. It provides the possibility to take fingerprints in internal checks on aliens, and it extends the possibility of taking care of passports or identity documents. These are four concrete proposals that are being dealt with in committees other than the Justice Committee that give our police – you and I have tabled a budget on that, and there we agree – a lot more to do. It also means that we do not get a good return job for those who are going back to their home countries. Why are you doing this?
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-229	Mr President, I would like to We can have different views and reflections on asylum policy both in the Chamber and in the Chamber of Parliament. But we cannot have the system of things that we had in the autumn of 2015, when a lot of people, for example, came into Trelleborg, not even registered there, but disappeared directly from the border without us having any idea where they went or who they were. Despite what you think about the ID controls and the necessity of them – and this has to be questioned all the time – they made us at least have control over who came into the country. I believe this is also to the benefit of asylum seekers. We do not want a parallel society where lots of people are in Sweden undocumented without names and without control. Nor would that have been desirable in terms of resources. Of course not.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-231	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report on the transport of detainees. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservation. It was the Alliance Government that initiated this important reform, which will relieve the police very much. The Alliance government appointed an investigator who was tasked with reviewing the operations of transport of detainees. The investigator then had an additional directive to also make proposals on how to improve the exchange of information between authorities in the context of hand-holds. At present, there is uncertainty as to which authority is to carry out certain transport operations. There is no law to regulate it. Many different authorities carry out these transports. Sometimes you hardly know which authority to do that, but you decide on a case-by-case basis. It is not legally certain and must be made clear. A practice has been developed in which the Prison Service carries out transport on behalf of the Political Authority and other authorities. The prison services have trained staff with the habit of incarcerated persons and also have suitable vehicles to carry out the transport operations. These transports may include transporting a person from detention centres to court proceedings, transportation to prison, youth homes and health care facilities, and transporting the Aliens Act, etc. Mr President, I would like to Most of these shipments are currently carried out by the Police Authority. They require enormous resources that could be used for real police activities instead. The Security Service also has data on expulsions and expulsions in matters of security. The operation of transport activities is very important both for the individual who has been detained and for socio-economic reasons. Now, finally, legislative proposals come from the government. This means that the Prison Service is given the statutory right to carry out transports for other authorities. This also means that the Police Authority will be allowed to hand over transports to the Prison Service. In the case of compulsory care and the Aliens Act, the request for assistance can only be made if it is considered that it can be violent or for exceptional reasons. The main rule is therefore that the authority in which the person is stored must carry out the transport itself. As far as international cooperation is concerned, it is the Police Authority that will be given overall responsibility. When the Police Authority is to assist another State with the transport operations, the person may be detained if it is necessary to carry out the transport. These transports can also be handed over to the Prison Service. In the case of transport in the case of enforcement of penalties, the primary responsibility is the Prison Service. If it is necessary to carry out a transport, the Prison Service has the right to use force, perform body visas and use imprisonment. This will also apply when the Prison Service carries out transport on behalf of other authorities. Mr President, I would like to If the Correctional Service is concerned about attempted release during a transport, they have the right to request assistance from the Police Authority. What is also very good about the bill is that, when it comes to transport within forced care and under the Aliens Act, a duty of duty is imposed. It has often been argued that there are difficulties in obtaining information between different authorities because of confidentiality. This will now be made clear, and that is very good. This means that the authority asking for help without a call – that is the important thing – should be obliged to provide the information needed for planning the transport. This makes it easier to plan the transport, how much staff you need, how much time is spent and so on, so that the Prison Service can do this in the best way. Confidential information also applies to the Prison Service. The Police Authority shall also provide such information to the Prison Service. Addicts or young people forced into custody may be detained until transport can be carried out, but this does not apply to young people under the age of 15. Data from the Police Authority show that the number of handrails is continuously increasing and in 2015 almost 30,000. This is therefore an important reform that will relieve the police a great deal. But that's not enough. In March 2015, the Committee on Justice issued an announcement to the government to come back with a proposal on how the police's tasks can be further refined. In April 2016, the Committee on Justice made another announcement, which was also about renouncing police activities. The Alliance government set up an investigation to review what activities can be carried out by others. The current government, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, apparently did not think this was important, because this investigation was closed, which is incomprehensible. The announcement means that the government will resume the investigation. However, the government has not done so. The police are in crisis. Lots of cops quit their jobs. Prosecutors are alerting us that the situation is chaotic. Child investigations are being piled up and do not have time to be completed. Homicide investigations are being placed in the balance heap, because there are no staff. Victims don't get help. At this point, the government is therefore choosing to close this important investigation. I don't really understand how the government thinks. Can't you see how important it is to free up the police's resources? Apparently not. My final and final question is: when will there be more proposals for the clean-up of police activities to relieve the police?
i-6LPqFiy7MLjt99RXfsDBm9	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg, Minister for Defence Peter Hultqvist, Minister Anna Johansson and Minister Per Bolund. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-249	Madam President, I would like I turn to Minister Hultqvist. Today it was announced that the Swedish Armed Forces are resuming contacts with Russia at defence attaché level in Moscow and Stockholm and that this is happening on Swedish initiative. The news was undeniably timely, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs is meeting with his Russian counterpart in the near future and there are signs from the government that they want increased contacts with Russia. The decision on the resumption of relations is made despite the fact that Russia has not shown any signs of a reduction in aggression, as soon as the opposite is done. It is wrong if the government would normalise its relationship with Russia in a situation where Sweden must clearly make demands on Russia. This is particularly true in the run-up to the Moscow meeting next week with Lavrov. The Russian military is intimately associated with Crimea, with Syria, with Eastern Ukraine and with Georgia. My question is: is the decision to resume contacts part of the government's adjustment towards Russia, and if so, does the decision imply some kind of counter-performance on the part of Russia? Can the Secretary of Defense answer this?
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-253	Madam President, I would like Yes, the Secretary of Defense can answer this. The government's position on the unacceptable nature of the annexation of Crimea remains. The government's position on the aggression against Ukraine remains. The government's analysis of the situation in our neighbourhood remains. Nothing has changed as far as the government's political line is concerned. All of this will also be presented by Mrs Wallström in the context of the visit to Moscow. When it comes to attaché activities, we have always had attachés in Moscow. They have had attachés in Sweden. What is now happening, then, is to participate in the attaché programme in which the other countries are also participating. That is really what is happening. These are military diplomatic contacts. This does not mean normalising our view of Russia, Russian politics and what they have done in various international contexts. Our line remains.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-256	Madam President, I would like The programme ended in 2014 in connection with the illegal annexation of Crimea. Then we have seen the activity in eastern Ukraine. We also see this in Syria. My question to the Minister for Defence is what has happened between 2014 and today that justifies the resumption of the programme. What normalization justifies this, and will there be some sort of counter-performance from the Russian side?
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-258	Madam President, I would like What happens, then, is that the Attaches carry out the activities they normally carry out. They participate in each other's attaché programs. Well, that's basically what's happening. This means no political acceptance whatsoever of any of what Russia has devoted itself to. I can only say that virtually all other countries have this exchange on the basis of the attaché programmes that apply. No change in view of Russia has taken place.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-261	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Mikael Damberg. In 2015, Sweden received around 160 000 asylum seekers, half of whom are expected to stay legally in Sweden. Already, several of those who have been refused their application in Sweden are illegal. An estimate has been made showing that up to 49 000 asylum seekers may soon go underground. This will, as you know, affect the national economy, including when they need some form of supply. It could be undeclared work, dumping wages for the simplest jobs, or crime. They may also make use of our welfare and of the benefits offered to illegal migrants in Sweden. My question is what the government intends to do to ensure that those who have been refused their asylum application also leave the country.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-264	Madam President, I would like We know that the number of asylum seekers who applied to Sweden in 2015 was record high. Therefore, the government took steps to ensure that it became a manageable level but also to ensure that more countries in Europe would assume a more joint and several responsibility for the reception of refugees. We have legislation in Sweden that means that each individual case is examined. This means that there is an individual examination. If you have the right to stay in Sweden, you can do so. Then it is important that you get the opportunity as quickly as possible to establish yourself, validate their knowledge and work with early language education to get into work and get into Swedish society. If you get a no on your application, it means you're going back. We are now seeing an increase in the number of returnees. But more must be done so that the people who receive a 'no' leave Sweden and return to their countries.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-267	Madam President, I would like What will the government do specifically for them to return? I wonder, given that you know that a lot of people will stay. Many of these will, as I said, make use of our welfare and of the benefits they have. We can mention, for example, the medical and dental allowance that is offered without authorisation. A tooth bridge or root canal costs Swedish citizens between a few thousand and 50,000 kronor, but an illegal immigrant in Sweden pays only 50 kronor. Is that really reasonable?
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-269	Madam President, I would like The first is that we see an increase in the number of people returning voluntarily. But if they do not, there is an opportunity to carry out the return by force with the help of the Police Authority. It is a work that must be done. Then I am not the one you should have this debate with in detail. I think it's better that you have that debate with Morgan Johansson. I think your information seems to me to be a little out of hand. We have tough rules in Sweden – we will have it for everyone. But it is also the case that people should be treated with respect as long as they are in Sweden and have the right to be here.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-271	Madam President, I would like There were bomb threats against stations in Gothenburg and Södertälje on Thursday last week. Many travelers then felt that they were not told what was happening. It is a recurring problem in the event of disruption that train operators do not interact and have a coordinated information strategy. This causes major problems for travellers. Disabled and elderly people have been particularly affected by the chaos that has occurred several times at the stations in Stockholm and Gothenburg and so on. Unfortunately, there are often disturbances in the train network, and there are many actors. When we have a liberalised rail market, coordination between operators is even more important, because the rail network is an entity that really needs very close coordination. Even train drivers testify that this information between train companies causes delays in train traffic.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-275	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Emma Wallrup, for the question! This is an area that is very important. Of course, we will do everything we can – we are also doing a great deal – to ensure that we get less interference by providing more funding for railway maintenance and organising that work in a better and more appropriate way. We are already doing a lot there. However, when disturbances occur, it is also of great importance to travellers that they receive accurate information that enables them to adapt to the current situation and know what happens next. This is an area where train operators in collaboration with the Swedish Transport Administration and other actors have worked very intensively to ensure that information comes out quickly and that it is correct. It is the Finnish Transport Administration that is responsible for coordinating the delivery of information about possible disruptions. The respective operator is then responsible for informing its passengers directly. There have been many positive changes in this area, but there are, of course, further things to do.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-279	Madam President, I would like I see a need to review this further and try to find a better form of coordination. I would like to ask the Minister whether she has a continuous dialogue and is following up on this issue. I myself have experienced train stops where there have not been replacement buses and where the information between the train operator and those who will handle the replacement buses has been very poor. There seems to be a great deal of work to be done in this area. The Minister says that there have been improvements, but I wonder if she is following up on this continuously.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-282	Madam President, I would like As I said, there is quite a focus on this issue. There is something called the executive railway group, which is made up of different players in the rail market and in the railway industry, who meet at regular intervals. I am, of course, in this group, and the question of information is on the agenda. As I said, I would like to say that there have been great improvements. Better systems are in place for the transmission of information. However, there is still work to be done, and I believe that all stakeholders are well aware of this.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-285	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Enterprise. I would like to highlight the issue of Postnord's current situation. The company recently presented its year-end report to the 2016 annual report. It shows a negative result for the Danish operations in particular of approximately SEK 1 910 million. As we know, the companies in Sweden and Denmark merged in 2009. What is evident in the report is that Danish development affects Postnord as a whole, despite the fact that Swedish operations are much stronger. Although I like to see cross-border cooperation in many contexts, I am probably not alone in questioning whether the merger between the Swedish Post Office and Post Danmark was a good idea for Sweden. Perhaps the digital development and the special conditions were also underestimated. I'd like to ask why the deal looks like it does. What were the forecasts made when the agreement was concluded?
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-290	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. The result of the Danish operation in Postnord is serious. There is a substantial deficit, both in terms of current operations and depreciation of values in Denmark, due to this negative development. It is not really news that the volume of letters has fallen in Denmark. There have been problems with negative results since 2011 – albeit not to this extent – and Postnord faces major challenges. I think this is a relevant issue. I have requested to obtain the file in order to review it and see what was behind the merger and on what premises the merger was made. I hope to be able to report this when I come to the Committee on Economic Affairs on 21 February. So far, it seems that it was known that there were special conditions for postal workers in Denmark, to a large extent. No specific crisis scenarios or far-reaching forecasts appear to have been made. This puts the Swedish postal business in a slightly tougher position than would otherwise have been the case.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-295	Madam President, I would like This is one of Sweden's oldest companies and coherent government activities, but now it is perhaps not about history but about looking forward. The turnover is probably 40 billion. There are 35 000 employees in four Nordic countries involved. A strong trust is the base, as I see it. The Minister for Industry's constructive focus is welcome. I look forward to continuing to follow up on the issue of preparedness for further action, which I hope the Minister for Economic Affairs has.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-298	Madam President, I would like The Board of Directors of Postnord has chosen to make a change in Danish operations, which will mean that 1 000 people per year will be allowed to go for four years. This is a major change in Danish operations. The problem with this conversion is that it is very costly and will take a long time. Therefore, I have requested both financial and legal advisors to look at this deal and this approach and see what options we have. My priority is to defend the Swedish postal business for the future.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-300	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Consumer Affairs Per Bolund. Ninety-six per cent of Swedes do not want to be phoned by telephone vendors from companies that are not already customers. The figure is certainly from 2014, but I feel that I am also part of this group. Another figure from this study is that one in six notifications to the Consumer Ombudsman concerns telephone sales. I find this remarkable. It has also come to light that many older people feel cheated by telephone vendors. I would like to ask the Minister whether he has been made aware of the concerns of the older population. I would also like to ask what the Minister thinks we need to do. Thus, 96 percent of Sweden's population does not want to be phoned by telephone vendors from companies that are not already customers.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-304	Madam President, I would like On the part of the government, we find it totally unacceptable that so many people are exposed to telephone sales that they are not satisfied with. You feel that it is an aggressive situation and that you do not get information about which product or service you are actually buying. An example is what is in the paper that I now present. Ulla-Britt-Britt received a bill of SEK 10,000 after being called by an aggressive telephone salesman. I find it totally unacceptable that this is the way things are done in telephone sales in Sweden. Here the government needs to make efforts to ensure that this market works. We need more security as consumers, and we need time for reflection. I would therefore like to see a written requirement for telephone sales, which would allow us to reconsider the offer. It would also give us greater security as consumers. This question is currently being prepared at the Government Office, and I hope that it will soon be possible to put such a proposal on Parliament's table.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-308	Madam President, I would like I am pleased to hear that the Minister and I see the same problem. I have also pointed out in the past, both mediatedly and in the debate, that we should introduce a requirement in writing. The Minister is talking about doing this urgently, and I hope it will happen as soon as possible. The report landed on the government table for an investigation as early as summer 2015. So I wonder: How fast is it? There are many out there who are waiting to be able to read through the agreement that is to be made before entering it over the phone.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-310	Madam President, I would like This is an urgent area. It is clear that a market where such a large proportion of customers are dissatisfied is also not a stable market for those selling these services. We have a great deal of agreement in the government that we have to come forward with a proposal. However, there are, as so often, major issues that need to be addressed. We have now come a long way with this preparation, and I therefore believe that we will soon be able to present a proposal to Parliament.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-313	Madam President, I would like I would like to address Mr Per Bolund, Minister for Finance. We need a functioning, efficient and secure cash handling e-mail that includes the whole country. Everyone must have the opportunity to use the means of payment of notes and coins. Unfortunately, we are having a negative development today.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-316	The Riksbank changes notes and coins and has been doing so for some time. Banknotes and coins are legal tender, and we are now in danger of seeing developments in which the country is split because not all people have access to notes and coins.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-317	Madam President, I would like I thank Per Åsling for a very important question. This is a challenge for society. The digitalisation of our economy offers many opportunities. There are many of us who can handle our banking business at any time of the day and thus avoid travelling long distances to go to the bank. But it is also evident that there are people in trouble. The government's view is clear: Everyone should be able to manage their finances using the methods that you choose and want. That is why we are also active in ensuring that we have a functioning cash supply throughout the country. We have a system in which the county boards compile what the development looks like in their areas, and this ends up as a report on the government's table. There is money allocated to the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency to complement private market players and ensure that there are payment service agents around the country. We also have a steady ongoing dialogue with the banks, in which we require the banks to be more responsive to the needs of their customers and to come up with proposals for action. There is now also an investigation that will look at the Riksbank's responsibility for the cash supply. The government is acting strongly on this issue.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-324	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I am aware that the issue is being investigated and has been investigated. There have been a number of investigations since 2012, when there was an emergency with the transports due to a bankruptcy of a company. But the problem is that the issue is investigated by one investigation after another and that the problem remains that there is a negative trend in people's and companies' access to cash.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-325	Madam President, I would like We are aware that there are many bank accounts that stop using cash and provide the opportunity for customers to use cash. Many bank accounts are also closed in Sweden today. We simply need to ensure that the banks take greater responsibility. As the government sees it, it is the private actors who have a responsibility to ensure that these functions function. They must be sensitive to the needs of their customers. We have made demands for the banks to come up with measures, and they have said that they will return to the government with suggestions on how to interact for a good cash supply.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-329	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson. Today, the government decided to make it possible for heavier trucks on our roads. At the same time, we can see that there was little left of an important reform. Finland introduced 76 tonnes on its roads as early as 2013. Sweden has been lagging behind. We have agreed on this on both sides of the middle line of politics. Yet we now see that the Government's proposal in practice means that only a few percent of the state road network will be able to use the heavy goods vehicles – trucks that are extremely important for the Swedish forestry industry and several other important industries to be able to transport their goods efficiently. That is why I ask the Minister for Infrastructure: Is this just a concession to the Green Party? Why do you not want to give the industry the conditions that have been pointed out so long that it needs to?
i-RV18CgLtiWK9BgAytAkZHj	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Rosencrantz, for the question! It is an urgent reform that the government has decided on today. It enables more efficient transport by truck and thus both environmental benefits and improved competitiveness for Swedish haulage companies and the Swedish export industry, so I am extremely pleased that we have now taken this decision. The road network pointed out will not be completed until within a year," says Trafikverket. There has been a proposal on possible routes that the Swedish Transport Administration has been looking at. Firstly, the premise is that the roads should have the carrying capacity to cope with the heavy goods vehicles and, secondly, that there should be road routes that do not risk the transfer of goods from rail and shipping to lorries. As I said, the Finnish Transport Agency will present a final decision on which roads should be covered within one year of today's date.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-336	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. The directive given to the Finnish Transport Administration was rather governing, so to speak, with the limitations that the Minister has now outlined. But it is interesting to hear that one might see an opening there, because the proposal that came from the Swedish Transport Administration, based on the Government's directive, was that it would be possible on just a few roads in Sweden, contrary to what the forest industry and others have expressed the need and wishes for. Nor, as I have seen, does the government propose any money to strengthen the road network, as the Moderates do.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-339	Madam President, I would like As I said, it is a long-awaited and important reform. The starting point is that we need to use all modes of transport in Sweden as efficiently as possible. This means, among other things, that we maintain that we want to see a greater amount of goods transported as climate-smart and environmentally friendly as possible. There, both rail and shipping are preferable, but there is also a great need for well-functioning, efficient truck transport in Sweden. That's where the proposal lands very well. The Finnish Transport Agency will return with a well-balanced decision in due course.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-341	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Per Bolund. I see a concern that many people in our country have low pensions, not least single women who at the end of the month feel that the money is not enough. On the Liberal side, we have therefore proposed that the pensioner housing supplement be increased, and in the draft budget to which the government votes no, we add 1.3 billion to raising the standard of living of pensioners with the lowest economic standards today. We must have a pension system that generates security and which can be trusted. During the autumn we have been able to see how a number of different companies in the PPM system do not act seriously and responsibly. The latest thing that has been noted is that a member of an AP fund is also the chairman of a company that does not seem to act properly. Is it reasonable to be able to sit in a government AP fund while sitting in a private company in the PPM system?
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-345	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mats Persson, for another important question! It is extremely important for the government, but also for the entire pension group, that there is great confidence in the pension system. Then we must be confident that all representatives on boards are acting for the benefit of the pension system and the AP funds. We recruit so that there will be the necessary skills. You should be able to make informed decisions and ensure that the return is optimal for all of us who have pension funds in the AP funds. But one must act as a board member in such a way as to increase confidence. There may be trouble. Now there is a review of the company in question, and we do not know what the audit will land in. However, I note that the honourable Member has left the board of Allra. We will have a dialogue with the honourable Member to hear her side of the matter. There is also an evaluation of all Members every year.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-348	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. However, I am not satisfied with the content of the answer. I would have liked the Minister here today to have clearly told the Swedish people that they should not be able to sit in an AP fund while sitting on a board of directors of a private company within the framework of the PPM system. It is clear that acting irresponsibly in the private PPM system also has an impact on confidence in the state system. My hope is that the government will reconsider and make it clear that the regulations will mean that you cannot sit on double chairs.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-350	Madam President, I would like This is an urgent matter, and the government is prepared to act decisively. At the same time, the pension system is an issue that we govern in a broad community in the Swedish Parliament. Six parties are behind the pension agreement, and together we are designing the rules for the pension system and also for the AP funds. One principle of Swedish justice is that you are not sentenced in advance. It is only when the review is completed that we can know how this company has acted. Nevertheless, I note that the honourable Member has resigned from the board of directors of the company. We will now proceed with the evaluation of her activities.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-353	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Secretary of Defense. It concerns the recent decision of Karlshamn Municipality to lend parts of the port to the Nord Stream project. At the press conference, the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed the great Russian importance for Karlshamn harbour. It was said that of the 1,100 ships entering Karlshamn harbour, 700 are Russian. Does the Secretary of Defense and the Government have any idea how many there really are? I have another question. It applies to the agreement that was about to be concluded on Gotland. If anyone were to ask questions about the project, Region Gotland would commit itself to telling Nord Stream who it was. Is this compatible with the principle of public access, and has perhaps the same type of agreement been concluded with Karlshamn?
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-355	Madam President, I would like Questions about which agreements individual municipalities and companies conclude may be addressed to them. That is not something that the government or the state regulates, so the honourable Member will have to bring it up in another context. Then figures and other elements have been presented in the public debate. These figures have not been decisive for the decisions concerning Karlshamn, but the analysis that has been made on the basis of current discussions is that we can gain insight into the project and in different ways handle the situation by customs, Coast Guard, Armed Forces, police and the Security Service doing work in the area during the time that this is going on.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-357	Madam President, I would like At the December press conference, the Minister for Defence was clear to say that this was a bad thing for Swedish security both in the short and long term. As far as I know, the assessment has not changed. It wasn't 700 Russian registered ships, it was 42. It shows a little of the excesses that have been, and it is strange that you should give out those who ask questions about the project.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-359	Madam President, I would like I've never used that kind of number in any public context. Therefore, I do not feel that I bear a responsibility for it. Nord Stream 2 is not a project that the government thinks is good. That is why, in relation to the European Union, we have raised the question of how things can be prevented in different ways. We have also made various types of efforts to avoid using Swedish infrastructure or using it checked.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-361	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Enterprise Mikael Damberg. In itself, I could have waited until tomorrow when the minister visits my lovely municipality of residence. Welcome to Vingåker! But I already want to flag what I think the Minister will hear when he meets the companies. They don't find the right skills, and that's growth retardation. It's about nurses, cooks and industrial workers. Without the right skills, Vingåker and many similar municipalities will lose growth rate and attractiveness.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-364	Madam President, I would like It is not only in Vingåker that I meet entrepreneurs who raise this issue. On virtually every trip I make, I hear that regardless of the industry – industry, tourism or the health and social care sector – you have problems finding the right skills. This is why the government has carried out a major leap in knowledge where we are gradually building up 70 000 new training places at all levels of the education system. Upper secondary school has great challenges. We see that there has been a declining interest in the professional programmes available at upper secondary school. Fewer and fewer young people have chosen them. Especially did the bourgeois government take away the higher education qualifications and described that these courses were for those who were tired of studying and did not believe that they could pass upper secondary school. It was a mistake, but now we're making big bets. Last year we had a joint effort between LO, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Government to talk well about the professional programmes – not least the technical college and the health and social care college, which attracts many young people back.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-368	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Right now it's high school election times, and 15-year-olds sit with the catalogues and think. I checked our nearest high school, and five young people have chosen the industrial engineering program. I know the government does a lot of things, but I think we need to do more. How does the government want to act so that students get an early look at the labour market and what their actual working life looks like?
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-371	Madam President, I would like That is an important issue. We need to have more cooperation between industry and the public in terms of education. When industry and industry are involved, open up their businesses and work closely with study and career advisors, we see results. The promotion of technology college, for example, must also be long-term. The day before yesterday I was in Lindesberg in Örebro County, where they had decided to restart a technology college with industry to attract more young people to the industry. So it's possible, but then we have to work more together.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-374	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Enterprise Mikael Damberg. For three days, a debate article was published in which LO Chairman and Social Democrat Mikael Damberg explained that they want to change the regulations for labour immigration. The same move was made by the Social Democrats in the election movement in 2014, but it was quickly withdrawn when the Green Party protested. This time too, the Green Party has been sceptical, to say the least.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-377	Madam President, I would like The government has not changed its mind. The government proceeds from the agreement reached by the bourgeois parties with the Green Party, and it forms the basis for the work. As we know, sometimes parties have congresses, voices and the like, and before ours we have launched a proposal that is that we want to change this legislation. The Social Democrats think it is wrong to treat everyone who is looking for a job in Sweden and want to come as labour immigrants in exactly the same way whether they are cleaners or engineers. We do not think it will work today. The government has made several efforts to facilitate labour migration for highly specialised workers. For example, we have looked at the unfortunate rules that make it impossible to correct errors. There has been such a proposal. The government is also looking at further efforts to make it easier. We have also made great efforts to combat cheating and create order and order in those sectors where there have been major problems, not least with very low wages.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-381	Madam President, I would like Should I interpret the Minister for Economic Affairs' reply as meaning that the debate article should be seen more as a contribution to the upcoming election campaign and that this is not something that the Minister for Economic Affairs intends to implement? After all, there is already a majority in this House to bring about, with balanced proposals, a change in the regulations governing labour migration. Is the Minister for Economic Affairs serious, or is it just empty rhetoric in front of the election campaign? The conditions for the Social Democrats to implement this after an election and without the formation which today would form a majority do not exist.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-385	Madam President, I would like Only then will we know what the distribution of seats will be after the next elections. The article makes it clear that it is a proposal to the Social Democratic Congress. I will not precede our Congress' decision on the matter; it may be some order. But it is a proposal from the Social Democrats that we are pushing. Government policy is clear. We are based on the agreement that exists. However, our party is developing its policy for the elections and will continue to do so. Swedish NATO membership and cooperation with the US
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-390	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. The government is and has been clear that it sees NATO membership as problematic as Sweden becomes more dependent on other countries and its dependence on the USA is increasing. Instead, Sweden is now negotiating certain agreements with the United States alone. Does the Minister of Defence think that individual agreements in the field of defence between the US and Sweden make us less dependent on the US than NATO membership?
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-394	Madam President, I would like The questioner is wrong in the analysis of why we are opposed to NATO membership. Let me therefore begin by correcting her. It is a position based on our geopolitical reality, where two militaryly non-aligned countries lie next to each other and Finland has a long border with Russia, what can happen to us this border and an assessment of a future state of tension if we change our security policy doctrine. However, we are very much in favour of cooperation with other countries and therefore conclude bilateral and multilateral agreements and are active in the NATO partnership. This strategy also includes cooperation with the United States, which is old for Sweden, especially in the field of materials. So that's not news.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-397	Madam President, I would like When you go to a negotiation, it is always easier if the strength ratio is something like that when equal or if you are at least not at a disadvantage. I wonder if the Secretary of Defense can see it as a risk. We are a relatively small country that will negotiate alone with a fairly large country, even if there are other countries involved. We have also assumed increased responsibility for Finland.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-399	Madam President, I would like I do not see the problem pointed out by the questioner. We have made arrangements for collaboration or interoperability, exercise activities, materials, research and international operations. What you do in concrete terms is make projects for projects. I do not see the need presented here. I think that we have chosen a good strategy, which I have understood was rooted in both the Defence Committee and the 70% majority in Parliament in the decision on the direction.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-403	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Bolund. In my opinion, it is reasonable for us to move towards an increasingly cashless society, but at the accelerating rate at which this is happening today, many people are unable to deal with their situation. Older people feel insecure about handling a card, and you shut down ATMs and the service in bank accounts. As Per Åsling pointed out earlier, this is a serious issue for many in our country. I would like to ask: do you think that the speed at which this happens is reasonable? Do you think it's right that we have to pay to exchange money into the bank?
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-406	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Peter Persson, for an important question! We have already debated it here today, but I am happy to debate it further, as it is of great concern to many people. I can begin by saying that the rumour of the death of cash is greatly exaggerated in the debate. The Riksbank is currently issuing a new series of notes and coins, and this shows with the desired clarity that cash will be in our societies for a long time to come. In addition, the Government is making efforts to make it possible to choose for yourself how to manage your finances. We do this through dialogue with the banks, where we put pressure on them, through the Riksbank investigation, where we are now looking at a legislative proposal on these issues, and through payment service agents. We want to enable people to choose for themselves how to manage their economy, but in the end this is a matter for financial market players. It is the banks that have the task of ensuring that the payment system works in relation to the customers, and it is they who set the conditions for the use of cash. This is not an area where the government goes in and regulates. We do not usually have such a tendency to regulate markets. What we are looking at now, for example, is the role of the Riksbank.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-410	Madam President, I would like I think there is a deep outrage that the four big banks, which together make 100 billion, are now breaking the piggy bank. Once the piggy bank was proud to go to the bank, and the number of crowns was noted. Now that the 11-year-old gets there, one of the banks says, "You can leave 7% to me." Another bank says: You can leave me 100 kroner. Is this reasonable, Bolund?
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-412	Madam President, I would like Our view is that it is the banks that have the main responsibility to ensure that the cash supply works. They are the ones who have the task of ensuring that customers are satisfied, as it looks in many markets. We are now looking, through the Riksbank investigation, at what the distribution of responsibilities should look like in the future and how we can regulate this issue. It is easy to identify the problems, but it is more difficult to come up with proposals for measures. For example, legislation has been proposed. We see that Norway has similar legislation, but it does not seem to have very significant effects there. Bank accounts are also closed there, and cashless offices are increasing. We need to investigate this issue further.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-417	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg. In the days, a ruling was passed in the Patent and Market Court of Appeal which briefly means that, although Internet service providers provide only one data transport service, they may suffer sanctions if they do not block customers' access to certain websites. In the present judgment, it applies to the pages The Pirate Bay and Swefilmer. You don't have to question copyright as such in order to problematise this judgment – that's at least my opinion. My question is this: is this judgment in line with government policy, or is it even prepared to review the legislation on this fundamental issue?
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-421	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. As we know, it is we who make laws, and we should not have perceptions of exactly how laws are interpreted, but rather discuss new legislation. I can see that this has been an issue for a long time, and there has been uncertainty as to how the judiciary will interpret it, because there have been prohibitions and also police measures against this type of activity. The operation has been considered illegal, but it has not been accessed. Now came a verdict saying that also the suppliers, in this case, have a responsibility to act to combat this type of piracy. It is important to see that this issue is bigger. It has a policy perspective that is about artists, IP owners and many in the digital economy having the right to be paid for the job they do. I understand that the courts have taken a stand because it is an important principle to be able to enforce legislation in the digital world as well.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-427	Madam President, I would like Apart from the fact that, in my opinion at least, the judgment is likely to be completely ineffective in the case of illegal file sharing, one can defer to the principle here. That's who I'm after. I'm a little worried that we'll open Pandora's box if we don't relate in principle to censorship of the Internet. What's next? Is it a side that spreads fake news or something else that the sitting power finds displeasing that will end up in the bullet hole?
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-429	Madam President, I would like In digital times, it is important to see that we have great economic interests in Swedish industry, where many of our companies today develop digital tools – music, culture, computer games or other services online. It is reasonable for these companies to be paid and their rights defended in the digital world as well. We see that there are not only illegal but also legal file sharing opportunities. Hopefully they can get further boost after this judgment.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-432	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask a question to Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson. A few weeks ago, the government presented a Swedish aviation strategy – a very welcome strategy, which, among other things, this House has been calling for a while. As I understand it, it is the first Swedish overall aviation strategy. Several points in the strategy are extremely important when looking at the challenges of aviation. It is about social conditions, the environmental impact of aviation and more. There is also a point about how the whole of our country should be able to live and about accessibility. This applies to regional airports. Around our country, regional airports are under heavy pressure from operating deficits and from an EU regulatory framework that says that they should not be supported by public funds.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-437	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Rikard Larsson! It is an important milestone that we have developed this aviation strategy, which seeks to capture both the benefits of aviation and its somewhat more problematic aspects in a single product, where we create a platform to work further from industry, regional representatives and many others. As far as regional airports are concerned, they represent an extremely important basic supply for accessibility throughout our country, while at the same time it is problematic how to react to existing legislation and regulations, not least at European level. The Government intends to review both how we provide state and other public support to airports and how we should relate to the network as such. Do we have the right number? Is it on the right premise, so that we can ensure a long-term and stable form of support for regional airports? These form an important backbone.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-441	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that answer. The planes that take off from regional airports are supposed to fly somewhere. Often they fly to Arlanda. Arlanda is also addressed in the strategy, and there is discussion about a Arlanda Council. Therefore, I would like to ask the Government to develop its thinking on the development of Arlanda and the link with regional airports.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-442	Madam President, I would like The idea that we highlight Arlanda is that Arlanda has a special national significance as the capital airport and as a hub for much of the other air traffic in Sweden. Arlanda is also a transfer airport that we believe can be developed and create greater opportunities both for Stockholm as the capital city and for other regions in Sweden. We believe that more players need to be involved to develop Arlanda into a hub in Scandinavia and strengthen Swedish competitiveness.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-444	Madam President, I would like I address my question to Minister Mikael Damberg. That the tax burden can chase companies out of the country, we know. Despite this, the red-green government continues to deteriorate by announcing airline tax, mileage tax, entrepreneurial tax and bank tax. This obviously has negative consequences for companies' willingness to remain in the country, which ultimately undermines our economy and growth and damages welfare. In early February, it was announced that SAS, in which the Swedish State is a partner, is moving parts of its operations abroad. The motive is, among other things, the harmful tax burden. My question to Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg is then: How does Mikael Damberg, as representative of SAS's owner, see that his own company with clear signals that the tax burden in Sweden is too high chooses to move parts of its business abroad?
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-448	Madam President, I would like I will first say something about reality. We have very strong growth in Sweden – stronger than it is in almost any other European country. It has created 150 000 new jobs in the economy, so that more people go to work, and unemployment is falling. We see that growth today is driven not only by economic consumption here at home and housing construction, but also by the increasing investment of business. This is usually a sign that there is both faith in the future and that you want to make investments in Sweden to create more jobs. As regards the issue of SAS and the aviation industry, the aviation industry was raised here earlier. It is a little surprising if we say in this House that there are no problems with social dumping in the aviation industry today. Staff may suffer from this, but some countries are also working on very aggressive tax schemes to distort competition. That is something that we are addressing in the aviation strategy that was discussed here before. Again, the Moderates do not seem to be so eager to defend either tax bases or social conditions.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-451	Madam President, I would like In particular, with the reality statement that the Minister has just given us, I wonder how he sees SAS, part-owned by the Swedish State, actually choosing to move parts of his business abroad with the tax burden as motive. The World Economic Forum has ranked Sweden high, but with one exception – the high tax burden needs to be addressed. Therefore, I still wonder: How does Mikael Damberg, as the representative of the owners, see that SAS chooses to move parts of its business abroad?
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-454	Madam President, I would like We see that the investments needed to sustain growth will also require public investment in education systems, in matching, as we talked about earlier, and in continuing investment in housing construction. That's what costs money. Tax revenue will then be needed if you are to afford these investments, otherwise growth in the economy will slow down. As far as SAS is concerned, we cannot, with ownership of 17,2 %, or decide how SAS organises its business. I can only say that, today, in 40% of flights, SAS is flying wing to wing with Norwegian, which has no decent agreements.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-457	Madam President, I would like I'd like to put my question to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Right now there is a dismantling of the telephone network that we have never seen in our country. Copper lines used in broadband are cut off. In some cases, people remain without a telephone or broadband connection that works. Many companies get in touch and are very worried. How will it work in the future? People feel very powerless. The signal is very clear from Stockholm: The dismantling of the countryside is in full swing.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-461	Madam President, I would like I thank Magnus Oscarsson for the question, which we have debated a couple of times before. I am happy to debate it again, because it is important. I note that this dismantling of the copper network began many years ago. The process began during the bourgeois reign. You were very clear that this was to be carried out. Now we have a discussion where we need to look at two things. The government does several things. The first is that we are expanding fiber at a very high rate. We are actually doubling the funding for fiber expansion throughout Sweden. It is a hugely important infrastructure for the future. We are also seeing technological developments, which we have also discussed before, where mobile solutions are improving. In many cases, mobile solutions may be better than the old ones. But in all places it is not so, and then it is very important that not least the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency can act and act to protect consumers with the legislation that we have.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-464	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Industry for his answer. From north to south people are hit in an incredible way. I have read that in Luleå, for example, 30 villages are affected and in upper Kalix 14 villages. This also takes place in Västervik and all over Sweden. Why can the minister not call Telia and talk to them and say: Wait with the cutting of the copper grid until there are good alternatives. This is what people in the countryside say when I meet them.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-467	Madam President, I would like The big question is well why the bourgeois government did not do so during eight years when this cutting of the copper wire began. That is the simple question. I am very clear to Telia that they must have clear information, they must have alternatives and there must be mobile solutions. Ultimately, it is the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency that has a responsibility to ensure that all citizens of this country have a digital connection. In this regard, the government has stated that we will be looking at whether we should not guarantee more contact and transfer to people as a lowest common denominator. This investigation will be here soon.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-469	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Defence, who is that the European Parliament has adopted texts on the implementation of a common security and defence policy and on a European defence union. It is clear from these texts that, among other things, there is a strong desire to introduce a common defence industry and joint procurement of defence equipment. This gives me cause for concern as to where this is going. I would therefore appreciate it if the Minister for Defence could comment on these adopted texts. What weight should be put on the ssa?
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-472	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. These are, of course, very interesting questions. What the EU defence ministers agree on is that we at European level should improve our support for the missions we have in Africa and that we should have a better leadership of this activity. We agree to cooperate with NATO on cyber and hybrid issues. We agree that NATO and the EU should not overlap each other's functions. We also agree that cooperation is, of course, intergovernmental. It is therefore up to each state to contribute on the basis of what it considers reasonable in different contexts. The existing cooperation in the defence industry is also based on intergovernmentalism. From the Swedish side, we have been very clear that, on the basis of the military alliance freedom that we have, we believe that it is extremely important that it is intergovernmental.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-474	Madam President, I would like I'll shoot in another quick question. According to an investigation, the reintroduction of compulsory service provides perhaps 4,000 conscripts or war-placed. M an calls in more, but you will use maybe 4,000 – with an increase. That is a figure that, in my opinion, would be a first step, and it will not be enough – as was said before – for the return to Home Guard units and other civilian functions for military deployments. I would like the Minister for Defence to comment on this.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-476	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank you for this question. Bringing a military duty element into the human resources supply creates a broader basis for recruitment to voluntary organisations, among other things. I believe that the Home Guard's national protection forces will benefit greatly from a military service system in Sweden, combined with the professional defence.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-478	Madam President, I would like Swedish tourism is doing well. It is not least now in sports holidays in Åre, where I live. I would like to mention something that the Minister for Economic Affairs said last week when he and the Prime Minister visited us in Jämtlandsfjällen, namely that he had his best day at work. In order for the tourism industry to function, different types of measures are needed in both large and small areas. Some of that responsibility has the state, and I am thinking in particular of the state leads that exist all over the mountain world. We are currently seeing a fantastic increase in visitors who want to hike, go on tour and drive snowmobiles on these trails – and at the same time we see that the trails have a great need for action. While we are talking about sustainability, I can mention that SJ yesterday came with the good news that they intend to invest and rearrange the night trains. My question to Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg is how the government works to create sustainable conditions for the tourism and tourism industry to grow and create more jobs.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-481	Madam President, I would like I thank you for your visit, AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg; it was very fun. It was sun and hugely beautiful, and me and the Prime Minister had to go snowmobile. It was very funny! When you are in the mountains you can understand how attractive it is for both tourists in Sweden and for an increasing number of international tourists who want to experience the unique natural environment. The government has said that it wants to work with the trails, both the hiking trails and the snowmobile trails, to see if we can't rearrange them. Can we make them work, both to protect the natural environment and to make them better for tourists? I believe that there is enormous potential for green tourism to grow – not least linked to our national parks, which are a unique asset in our country. What we do in general is to work a lot with marketing of Sweden. We have given Visit Sweden SEK 110 million extra to market Sweden, especially in markets far away. We work with destination development, and we work with dialogue forums where I gather the entire tourism industry. We have also set up an investigation to take a holistic approach to the development of the tourism industry.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-484	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Economic Affairs. It's nice to hear from a government that really wants to work on promoting tourism. Another question I have is that there are an incredible number of small businesses in the tourism industry. When you meet them, they usually raise the issue of regulatory simplification. I would like the Minister for Economic Affairs to perhaps mention something about regulatory simplification just linked to companies in the tourism industry.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-486	Madam President, I would like In 30 seconds I have time to say the following: one of the biggest industries that has major problems with rules and many permits is the restauran g industry, and it is an important part of the tourism industry. There the government has entered into a collaborative project with SKL with the aim that at least half of the restaurant companies in Sweden will be able to start and run their business digitally as early as 2017, with really a single entrance to the government and the national. We also hope to be able to clean up some of both local and regional regulations so that this can be a way to simplify for companies through digitalisation.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-488	Madam President, I would like Two weeks ago, I put a written question to the Minister for Economic Affairs on the grounds that the partly state-owned company SAS is moving parts of its fleet abroad. Today, we also learned that Spotify places 1,000 jobs in the United States. Unfortunately, the Minister for Industry's answer to my written question shows that the government does not seem to take the relocation on very much responsibility. Saying that a good business environment is considered crucial is certainly not the same as acting for it – on the contrary. The efforts made by the government obviously do not help; the jobs are clearly moving out. The forthcoming increases in taxes on labour and transport and threats of profit caps also do not directly contribute constructively to taking companies seriously and preserving jobs in Sweden. I wonder why the government does not take the signals from business seriously.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-491	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, because I now have the opportunity to debate this further. We can look at reality, which is the biggest enemy of Moderates in this discussion. They try to argue that Sweden has a very bad business climate, that no companies want to make investments and that there is a great uncertainty about the future – in a situation where Sweden really tops almost all international rankings of both business climate and innovation power. We see it in Europe's growth league, where today we are leading and driving growth in Europe in a way that few other rich European countries are doing. In addition, we see that companies have faith in the future and make major investments. We also see an increasing number of companies moving back to Sweden. They are companies that previously moved out to China, India or other countries and now move back production to Sweden. The difficult problem with taking SAS as an example is that the Moderates somehow excuse social dumping or this to work aggressively with tax schemes to attract companies between European countries. Is it the Moderates' message that it is a good arrangement for the future in Europe?
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-495	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Economic Affairs. Sweden is doing well now, yes. It is thanks to alliance reforms. However, there are warnings coming from various quarters about the future. We have growing income gaps and an increasing division of the labour market. We are also losing momentum in digitalisation compared to other countries. Not taking the signals from the business community seriously can mean that the government does not have a correct perception of reality and therefore does not put forward proposals for action that solve the real problems. Are the jobs in Sweden not important?
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-497	Madam President, I would like There is nothing more important than jobs in Sweden. That is why unemployment is falling and employment is increasing. We received statistics today that housing construction has increased by 36 per cent compared with last year. That is exactly the type of investment we need if companies are to dare to invest here. We need to continue to invest in maintenance, invest in infrastructure and invest in housing. We also need to invest heavily in research and education systems. This is what prevents companies from making further investments in Sweden. These investments take precedence over major tax cuts. That is the shift in politics that we have implemented, and it seems to be going very well.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-500	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson. I believe that today there are many companies around Sweden, especially haulage companies, who have reason to celebrate. They have reason to buy cake to invite their employees on, because today the government has decided to present a freight bill that includes the issue of 74-ton trucks. It is, of course, welcome, not least from the industries that are up there where I come from, that is, the forest industry. It is also welcome from elsewhere.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-503	Madam President, I would like I thank Leif Pettersson for the question. This is part of a comprehensive policy. I can begin by saying that we intend to develop a good strategy during the year in which we take a broader holistic approach to the nature of freight flows, the needs of different parts of the business community and how to ensure that not only our extremely important export industry, but also the distribution of food and other goods in our cities, works well and how we can support such development. At the same time, we see that we have major problems with social conditions in the transport industry. We believe that by making the right demands and making it easier for serious players to assert themselves and gain better conditions of competition, we minimise the risk of rogue operators taking an increasing share of the market. I also think it is reasonable to see the reform we are presenting today as a way – in addition to all the other positive aspects of the issue – to strengthen the serious part of the haulage industry.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-506	Madam President, I would like We heard some objections to the reform earlier in Question Time. Now I think it is important to note that we have to have roads that hold for heavy goods vehicles, and that is why it is perhaps a good thing that we hastened quickly with that particular piece. How does the government think, in a longer perspective, that this will develop in the future?
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-508	Madam President, I would like We shall ensure that we do not get a transfer of goods from rail and shipping to lorries by road for reasons of space but, above all, for climate reasons. At the same time, we will ensure that every part of the transport system is as efficient and climate-smart as possible and therefore streamline, for example, truck traffic, as we are doing with this reform. With regard to the future, the way this works should reasonably be taken into account. The Finnish Transport Agency will continue to work on this issue, and I am sure it will be great.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-511	Madam President, I would like Insecureness is spreading in Sweden. We know that every third woman feels insecure in her own residential area, and there are areas where criminal gangs rule and people are worried about reporting crimes or witnessing. At the same time, we have a police officer who kneels and suffers under weak leadership. The Moderates want to face this with 2 000 more police officers, pay the police better and tighten the penalties. In our budget, we spend ten times as much new money as the government on the police. The police can today reject people from one place but not prohibit them from being in that particular place. We think that the police should have access to the tool called a zone ban. It is a proposal that has been well received by police officers and police officers in cities such as Gothenburg and Malmö.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-514	Madam President, I would like It is incredibly important to take these concerns and uncertainties seriously. This is why the government is also investing heavily in the police – expanding police training and ensuring that more police officers come to the most vulnerable areas. We have a whole package of tightening up penalties to tackle, above all, organised crime, which drives a lot of this serious criminal activity and creates a lot of problems. We also have new sanctions for young offenders to get to grips with this. We are therefore making a great deal of effort, but social efforts are also needed in these neighbourhoods and in these places. That is why we are investing heavily in school and employment policy and everything that creates hope and confidence in the future. I read about this proposal, and it is perhaps Anders Ygeman who should comment on it, but it can be said that it is criminal to be a criminal in Sweden. If you sell drugs, you should go to prison; you should not be rejected from the scene. But it is clear that if the police come up with proposals, we are prepared to look at them.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-517	Madam President, I would like In my own hometown of Gothenburg we have major problems with widespread insecurity and crime in Nordstan. We want to face this with more policemen who are better paid and give them the opportunity of harsher penalties and also this with zone bans. I note that the Social Democrats promise zero new police officers and locally have proposed cultural projects.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-519	Madam President, I would like No, I don't think so. But it would be fun if the Moderates could give priority to a cultural project in Nordstan or one of the vulnerable residential areas around Sweden. I think it is important to also work with the development of activities that give hope and confidence in the future and show that we are serious about turning negative developments. But it will never be possible to compromise that the police must be there when they are needed. We are expanding the police and making strong investments. Only the other day came new statistics showing that the police actually deliver something more, 9 percent, to prosecutors.
i-EoKUDzkvb3gmjYyoprz3SA	Protection of Swedish defence and security interests
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-521	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. The Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline project has raised the issue of Swedish defence and security interests in relation to local and regional decision-making. I think everyone can feel and see the absurdity of local politicians around the country having to make decisions on their own that could affect our country's security. A municipal council lacks the necessary tools to make complex safety policy assessments.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-524	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Kalle Olsson! It is clear that Swedish legislation today is too poor and too weak. I have said this in many contexts. This, of course, needs to be addressed. At the moment, the government is preparing an internal committee directive for an investigation to review this type of problem. It aims to come up with proposals for regulatory changes and changes in legislation eventually through this investigation. That's what it's all about. We are trying to do this in as serious and thorough a way as possible so that the committee directives will also have the right effect and the right starting values. As soon as this is done, we will return, and then the investigation will be conducted. Once it has been completed, we have a basis to consider.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-526	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Defence. Does this review, which is now announced, mean that it will look at security-worthy infrastructure in a broad sense? We do not know whether in the future it is a port, a property or anything else that might conflict with national security interests.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-527	Madam President, I would like I find it difficult to explain the directives before they are ready. Generally speaking, such things as ports, airports, roads, land and disposal and the purchase of such activities should be reviewed. Then you have to watch private interests clash with community interests. As far as fundamental security interests are concerned, this cannot be a local and regional issue. It must be an overall state matter to take a position on, and that is what this investigation is aimed at.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-530	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure about the East Link. Many Sörmömnärarna and Östergötar are wondering about the start of the construction of the much-expected Ostlink. Labour spending is increasing and the pressure on the existing railways is severe. It's very crowded on the tracks. The construction start has been moved time and again over the years, and now it seems to be obscured. The railway line, the industrial track in Norrköping, should have started this spring, but in a recent SVT interview, the current project manager of the Swedish Transport Administration said that it will probably start construction this autumn. But the go-ahead from the government is missing, and therefore no construction procurement has taken place yet.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-534	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for the question! This is an extremely important part of the railway network in Sweden. It is part of the current national plan, which was decided by the previous government. There is a decision that this route will be able to cope with high-speed traffic. That is also what we are planning for. I could send back the question of Moderates' views on the expansion of high-speed trains in Sweden and the East Link. I have heard signals as soon as possible that we would like to postpone the start of construction instead of reprogramming for another speed. But you might be able to take that internally. The Government's ambition is that the start of construction is fixed. Of course, we will do everything we can to ensure that all the necessary permits and decisions are in place so that this important building can get started as soon as possible.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-537	Madam President, I would like There are many miles of new railway being built in Europe, and competition for construction workers, concrete workers, machinery drivers etc. is enormous across Europe. In other words, there is a need for forward planning and, above all, a high level of competence of the Swedish Transport Administration in the procurement process. How is procurement competence ensured for such extensive objects?
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-539	Madam President, I would like It is a basic competence in Trafikverket, which is one of Sweden's largest contracting authorities in terms of how much money you procure for. For several years, the Finnish Transport Agency has been working to improve its procurement skills and become a truly professional and skilled purchaser. This work is ongoing within the Agency. Then it is clear that there are always things to improve, such as what social requirements you make. This government places far greater demands on our authorities in this respect than it did in the past.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-540	That concludes Question Time for the week. I thank the ministers and Members who have participated.
i-e1bbb4d7f7a0fa3b-541	Madam President, I would like The debate on the transport of detainees had to pause for a thrilling Question Time. I would therefore like to remind the House of the exciting proposal that is being debated here today. The proposal in the report is for the House to approve the Government's proposal to introduce new provisions on the right of the Prison Service to carry out the transport of detained persons to other authorities. Above all, it is a question of purifying and relieving the police, which in their mission also transports detainees. In addition to the fact that it will free up resources for the police, this means that we are moving the task to the authority in Sweden that I think is most competent when it comes to transporting people who are detained for various reasons. This will lead to general efficiency gains and much clearer operational responsibilities. Today we have people in custody for many different reasons. There are, of course, persons suspected of and investigated for crimes, persons convicted of offences, persons to be detained by the Migration Agency, but also persons to be transferred for forced treatment of various kinds. In the debate it was discussed earlier whether this proposal opens up to transport different categories of detainees together. The government has made it clear that the main rule is not to transport, for example, the mentally ill along with convicted murderers. The order already in force today must therefore be established. That's clarified. Like the government, however, I do not see any reason to include this type of ban in the legislation itself. Madam President, I would like Correctional services have already assisted the police with the transport of detainees. What has arisen, not least through the JO's review, are questions about the legality of that procedure. The ECHR places high demands on legal support in the event of detention. The transport of persons in custody should also be clearly regulated by law so that the authority that does so also has the support of the law. That's very wise. Earlier in the debate, not least the representatives of the Left Party discussed a little bit of everything that the police need to do today. It was claimed that there is a contradiction between talking about the clean-up of tasks on the one hand and the increase in police duties on the other. But these are really two very different things, Madam President. It is one thing that the police may have increased tasks in order to change reality and because we have new needs in society. It does not resist the ambition that the business should be run as efficiently as possible at the same time. If the police are not the one who best performs a task and we have another authority that is better suited, it is only good if it does so, especially if the police are strained. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to correct a statement about border controls made earlier in the debate. Linda Snecker claimed that border controls would violate the right of asylum. That's not true. Border controls are controls where people who are on Swedish soil need to legitimise themselves. If these persons do not have the right of residence in Sweden, they have the opportunity to apply for asylum at those border controls. This is also happening today. Madam President, I would like In doing so, I would like to support the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights in its report and, therefore, the very laudable proposal of the Government.
