i-9732fb8f414833eb-0	Mr President, I would like to Elisabeth Svantesson has asked me what measures the government intends to take to ensure that Swedish gender equality applies to all girls and women in Sweden, wherever they live. The government takes seriously information that women's opportunities are limited and that women report that they cannot move freely in the public space. According to media reports, girls and young women are prevented from moving freely in certain residential areas and, for example, from leaving the area without a male relative. It is a violation of the personal safety and physical integrity of the victims that this is happening. These problems are often linked to honour standards and honour-related repression, which primarily affects girls and women, but also boys and men and particularly LGBTQ people. The Government's budget proposal for 2017 makes it clear that, among other things, a gender perspective is needed to address the challenges of segregation. The government has so far implemented comprehensive measures that can eventually contribute to reduced segregation, such as grants to municipalities and other efforts to strengthen school, health care, social services, police, and to reduce unemployment. In order to further strengthen the long-term and preventive efforts to tackle segregation problems, the Government decided on 23 March 2017 to instruct a special investigator to prepare a new authority, the Delegation against segregation. The task of the Authority shall be to contribute to lifting socially vulnerable areas and breaking segregation mechanisms structurally. The directives state that gender equality must be consistently taken into account in the work and that honour-related violence and repression must be countered. The delegation is part of a long-term reform programme for the reduction of segregation. The programme covers the period 2017 – 2025. The government has also decided on a ten-year national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women, including honour-related violence and repression. The strategy shows that the Government intends to strengthen the work against honour-related violence, including preventive measures aimed at young men living in an honorary context. The Government's strategy also stresses the need to continue developing violence prevention work with a focus on masculinity standards and relapse prevention. In addition, the National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with carrying out, among other things, a national survey of honour-related violence and repression and to investigate the extent to which vulnerable persons have received support and assistance. In addition, the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society has a mission, in collaboration with the national web-based youth reception Umo, to carry out information campaigns on health and gender equality for newly arrived and asylum seekers children and young people aged 13-20 years linked to the new target group-specific info Youmo Youma. The Government has also implemented efforts to strengthen the gender perspective in social information for asylum seekers and persons who have been granted a residence permit but who remain in the Finnish Immigration Service's housing facilities. In accordance with the Regulation(2016:1363) on the County Administrative Board's mission regarding interventions for asylum seekers and certain newly arrived immigrants, the County Administrative Boards must work to ensure that there are actions that promote, among other things, knowledge of Swedish society and the Swedish labour market. In this work, the county administrative boards will work to ensure that women and men can participate in actions on equal terms and to the same extent. The Government has also decided on measures to combat gender-segregated education, including by commissioning the National Board of Education to develop work on the school's core values and to clarify the school's mission to counteract traditional gender patterns, to portray and convey values such as equality between women and men, and to actively and consciously promote their equal rights and opportunities. Finally, I would like to point out that there is a great deal of commitment among women and girls in suburbs and many active in associations that are already working to strengthen women's position. It is important to highlight women in the suburbs who are active on these issues and to support their work. In the light of the efforts I have mentioned here, I and the Government believe that it is still important to protect the position and rights of women and children in Sweden.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-8	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. The escape from the moral police was the name of a section from the Cold Facts a few weeks ago. One might think, Mr President, that this would be about people fleeing Saudi Arabia, where we know that moral police officers, moral police, are commonplace. But here someone wanted to escape from one of Stockholm's suburbs, namely Hjulsta. There was a woman, Marie, who had fled and moved from the suburbs because she could not live the life she wanted. There was one, as I understand it, ordinary woman who went to work every day, lived with dog, had good friends, had a great commitment in the area and wanted to do good. But her freedom was restricted by men who did not think her lifestyle fit in with Hjulsta. This came as no news to me, Mr President. That is something that we have seen for a long time, and I hope that the government has done the same. It is not only the woman Marie who tells us about this. I meet women who tell me that they cannot live the life they want and that their relatives in the home countries have a freer and more modern life there than they have in Sweden. I meet girls who go home right after school because they never get to go after school for their parents or siblings. It is boys who have to control their sisters during school hours so that the girls do not talk to other boys at school. Two men who go hand in hand, a married couple, in many Swedish areas can count on abuse and even more physical harassment. This is in Sweden 2017. In Sweden in 2017, people feel that they need to escape moral police. Mr President, I would like to This is not the government's fault, and that's not why I've put the interpellation. It is something that has grown up in Sweden for a long time, and there are many governments that have done wrong because they have done far too little. But we see a situation that is getting worse. When I read the answer and when I also heard the minister– that's a bit why I asked the interpellation – that day commenting on this section I was concerned about the answer to these girls, to Marie and to the men who go hand in hand in these areas is another authority focusing on segregation, except for the authority that was recently presented, a gender equality authority. Another authority, another action plan and a little more coordination need not be wrong. I do not want to have a debate on the authority, but if that is the answer, I am concerned. What does the Minister want to say to Marie, to the girls under control? What is it that the Minister wants to say to the moral police in these areas, which are getting more and more? There are increasing numbers of areas whose lives are restricted. If the government's only response after three years is more authorities, more delegations and more coordinators, many more than I and those living in these areas have reason to be concerned. That is why I intend to give the Minister a chance to be more concrete. I heard, for example, about social information during the asylum period, which I think is very important and which is something that we Moderates have driven, including during the negotiations in 2015. But more needs to be done here and now to ensure that people's freedom is not restricted and that people never have to escape moral and moral police forces in Sweden.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-16	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Elisabeth, for raising this issue again, because it is really important! I agree that it is either not understood or has not done enough to meet the challenges. Even in the eight years when you were in charge, too little was done. An incredibly important thing that I want to say to the moral police and to women and men at all is that in Sweden you have to do everything to have a job and support yourself. This applies to everyone, and all the authorities who meet people in Sweden will try to help as much as they can so that everyone can be at the disposal of the labour market. I am therefore pleased that we have the highest employment rate in a long time for both women and men, not least women with foreign background, although it is far too low and too slow. We have therefore tightened up the assignments to authorities that meet these women so that they will do everything they can to get their own income and have a job and thus break segregation. Of course, this also applies to men who have taken on some kind of role where they limit the life space for women. Equality in Sweden should apply to everyone. I am also pleased to have the opportunity again to tell you what the government is doing. The interpellation states that the proposal to map the incidence of honour-related violence is too bad or too weak. It is a proposal that women and girls in organisations have made to me several times while I developed the national strategy on violence against women. They really want this. They want to know what it looks like for real, because the latest data is from 2009 – all in order to be able to take even more accurate measures. It is not a ridiculous proposal; it is a proposal that is really needed. In the meantime, we also map and investigate religions and whether the right organisations receive grants from the state. It is also a proposal that the organisations have made on many occasions. Obviously, the authorities are working on the basis of what we have seen in the media in recent days. What we do further, I'm happy to tell you, because it's quite a lot. Last week the info Youmo Youmo, which addresses sexual and reproductive rights and obligations as well as gender equality, was launched. I believe a lot in this site, which is being introduced with a rather ambitious programme to ensure that this comes out to HVB homes, schools, sfi, sports associations and whatever it may be. As far as I can judge, many relevant actors are involved. I will follow this closely, because I think that perhaps we need to follow up and reinforce even more. What we do further includes a major programme dealing with violence prevention and with a special focus on honour issues. There are missions to a variety of authorities. We have a special investigation that gathers together methods that are known to work to strengthen them and blow them up to the national level and move away from the project-based. We conduct a review of the school's sex and cohabitation education to strengthen it when it comes to gender equality. We are taking a series of measures when it comes to efforts to treat men who have already used violence against women and girls, including in the context of honour. We're looking at child marriage and whether honor should be the basis for punishment. We have a mission to the police to develop their methods of preventing violence also in an honorary context. These are some of the measures that we have launched.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-29	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I just want to put something right. I don't think mapping is ridiculous. It's incredibly important. My focus in the interpellation was on one of the minister's answers after Kalla Fakta – that it should be mapped. But I mean that a lot can be done here and now. This is happening right now. The Swedish girl Marie lived in Hjulsta. There are many Swedes and foreign born there, but it is not important where you were born. They go to work every day and live their lives as they please but don't feel they can. They may not be helped by a survey of honour violence a little later. It is also necessary, but my point is that efforts are needed now. For example, more police officers are needed in several of these areas so that people can feel secure. When little girls and boys go to school in the morning, they should not be worried about shooting at their playground because two gangs are killing each other because of drug trafficking, for example. Now you can do a lot. There's a need for cops. There is a need for support, absolutely. Much of what the Minister mentioned is good and right, but again we come back to the long line of surveys, action plans and collaboration. It doesn't have to be wrong, as I said in my first post, but it also needs things here and now. It is important that we as politicians at all levels – locally and nationally, in opposition and in government – roar from and that we meet shop owners, girls like Marie and the boys, girls, women and men who experience this and that we show that we are on their side. I think that is incredibly important. Work is of course an important part for it to work better, but I still want it said: Work is not everything. Many work in these areas and do the right thing every day but do not feel that they can live the life they want. We have women in these areas in Stockholm, Örebro, Eskilstuna, Malmö and everywhere isolated in their homes and who are not even allowed to go to Sfi and much less to a job. There's still a lot of work to be done here. We in the Moderates aim to narrow the gap between foreign and domestic born. It is larger in Sweden than in many other countries. The employment rate of immigrants is significantly lower than in other countries. It is precisely among women that the greatest potential and opportunities exist. More women born in another country need to get to work. Since the Minister is also Minister of Social Affairs, I'll give you some concrete tips. I think it would be great if more home visits were to be made to those who have support for their livelihoods. This has been done in some municipalities. There you are very careful to make home visits to families who have support to see if it is a situation where women are isolated and not active, as they should be. Many municipalities provide support to women or to both, so that it is divided up. Today, Ekot reported on this. Why should it always go to the man? This is some kind of standard in Sweden. Whether you're Swedish or not, it goes to the man in the family. These are two concrete, simple examples of what one can do now to get to and meet these women. It's crucial to sharpen the public information. We want to see a test for new arrivals – this is also something you can do soon. Not everyone is participating in social information today. It should be much sharper and sharper and greater focus on women's rights and LGBTQ issues. Let people take a test when they have gone through teaching! These are some concrete examples of what can be introduced without three years of delegations, coordinators and action plans. Do it now! It was necessary yesterday.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-42	Mr President, I would like to We cannot and should not accept oppression of young girls, women and young men anywhere in Sweden. I believe that many have seen this oppression and that we all react equally strongly when we see that inequality is allowed to spread. Fadime Sahindal was in the Swedish parliament and spoke about the oppression of honour she was subjected to. Fadime was later murdered by his relative. So the question is not new. Former Member of Parliament Nalin Nalin has also pointed out these issues and been very active in the suburbs with regard to this repression. Over eight years, differences in living conditions have increased in Sweden, which naturally increases the possibility for people to blame society and say that it is because we live in an unequal country. It creates a breeding ground for parallel communities when you are unemployed. We have religious free schools today that reinforce an unequal view of women and men. My question, not to the Government, but to Elisabeth Svantesson, is whether the Moderates are prepared to do something about the religious free schools. Today we see children attending pre-school, primary and secondary schools in religious free schools. Then I'm talking about both Christian and Muslim free schools where you reinforce inequality and a patriarchal view of women and men who don't belong in our modern society. I also believe that prosecution and presence in these areas by the police are very important. It creates opportunities to see and prosecute crimes that are going on. If you don't get education in Sweden when you come here, I think you're very naked if you don't know your rights. That is why adult education, which the government invests in in the budget, is so important that those who have never been allowed to go to school should be given the opportunity for education. And you're supposed to get community education from the moment you get here. Today, Swedish education is also available during the asylum period, which is of course equally important for both women and men. My question is: Are Elisabeth Svantesson and the Moderates prepared to close religious free schools that reinforce an unequal view of women and men?
i-9732fb8f414833eb-49	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to gender equality in Sweden and moving forward positions throughout the country, we must do two things at the same time. We must continue to work on gender equality in general. It is important to continue working to ensure that both women and men are able to support themselves and be at the disposal of the labour market, that they train themselves to what they want and that they are also paid for the education they have received and feel motivated to contribute to society and get a job so that they can decide their own life. That goes for everyone. We have challenges in the area of gender equality throughout Sweden for the entire population. As I see it, we have a totally unacceptable view of women's employment in Sweden as a whole, where women's employment is generally valued less than men's. I think that is a very big question, for example. We are faced with a parliamentary election in due course. What methods do we have to ensure that women's share is equal to men's share in eligible places? How do we discuss it? Actually, we're not doing that right now. We assume that this will resolve itself. I believe that we need to work much more consciously on gender issues throughout society. At the same time, we must have specific efforts for specific problems and areas. I therefore believe that we need to be fully aware of what honour-related violence and oppression mean and what the consequences are for those who are exposed to it, and what the thinking about women's inferiority and men's superiority has for women. I am very upset that the rather radical work that has taken place at UN level over the last 20 to 25 years has not been followed up by governments in the world with funding and support to introduce such good things as have been decided at UN level. If they had done so, they would have had a debate about it and if they had had a media interest in it, far fewer women would have arrived in Sweden and ended up in these situations. Now the situation is as it is here in Sweden, and then we must respond to it. I think we need to make specific efforts. That's why I've already listed a list of many things that we do. It is true that we must also strengthen cooperation between authorities. I was the other day in Skäggetorp in Linköping and visited a school that has good results from the School Inspectorate's studies of the school. 95 per cent of students have a foreign background. Of course, you have a very active work with pedagogy, but you also have a collaboration with social services and police when needed. You have a very good knowledge of the students and what they need, and you start from their needs. We have to do that. There's no way around it. That's very good. The Social Services have a number of mandates in terms of gender equality. That, too, is my responsibility. I believe that we can strengthen even more in terms of support for livelihoods and the view of people and families who come and need support in vulnerable situations. My government thinks you should have support when you need it. But, of course, women's work performance should not be assessed differently depending on whether they have a foreign background or not. Adult women should be seen as potential people in the labour market. I really want to investigate that social services work in such a way. I think it goes without saying that we then pay support to women as well as to men. Of course, this is how you should work, and so do you in many places in Sweden.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-57	Mr President, I would like to My last two minutes of speaking time I will not devote much to Eva-Lena Jansson. I can only say that the school should be non-confessional. Bad schools that do not live up to the curriculum and so on should not exist, whether they are secular, municipal or run in any other form. What we saw in the introduction to the element that has been mentioned here, where girls and boys are split up on a bus, should not happen anywhere in any school in any part of Sweden. We must counteract that. That goes without saying. Thank you for this debate, which I think we will have to continue. I believe that there is a great deal more to be done. In every debate I have with the current Minister, they often remind me of the eight years. They'd be happy to keep doing that if they want to. I believe that voters – people who live in Hjulsta, Vivalla and so on – are very interested in what the government that now has responsibility does. I spent a year in the government and made sure that Arbetsförmedlingen got a strengthened instruction to work more equally. I could certainly have had more time in that area. I was not responsible for integration at the time, but for labour market issues. But now Åsa Regnér is the gender equality minister and Minister for Social Affairs, and now she has quite a few tools that she can work with. I would like to see more being done precisely in the area of support for subsistence, and I am pleased that the Minister is opening the door, because it is a way of getting at women who are isolated. It is also a way to get into families and see how things are set. But there is much more to be done. The woman who escaped from the moral and moral police will not be helped by it. She's got a job to go to. People who live in these areas and who are under this pressure, especially women whose life space is limited, also need our support both in words and in action. In her case, it's about police support. A concrete police presence also needs to be present in these areas, so that no man's – no woman, no man, no girl, no boy – life space should be limited. They should not be subjected to this type of crime by so-called moral police officers.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-62	Mr President, I would like to On many issues that we are discussing right now here, Elisabeth Svantesson and I actually have similar views, and that is a good thing. But when it comes to secular schools, i.e. religious free schools, I do not think they should exist at all. I don't think we should have religious heads. What we saw in this feature is that religious schools actually reinforce an unequal image of women and men. If you as a child learn that you as a woman are less worthy and that your own role is to be at home caring for children and not being on the labour market, you will also create that image of yourself. I think it is very important that we actually have discussions about the free choice of schools and what these religious free schools contribute to in terms of increasing inequality in certain areas. I also believe that it is important to discuss how education can strengthen women's access to the labour market and be independent and therefore not dependent on a man. As I said earlier, I believe that there is a need for increased police presence in these areas, so that crimes are prosecuted, that this is going on and that it will be dealt with. But above all, it is a matter of ensuring that these young men understand their role in society. It is not just about helping women and girls to see their rights. It is also about men being equal and not those who take on the role of living an extra life for their sister or for their wife. It is about them taking responsibility for their lives and actions and not owning any other person.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-67	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the debate. As I said earlier, I agree that efforts should be directed at men and boys. I think that is absolutely crucial. That is why it is actually the focus of the national strategy on violence against women. But it is about gender equality work at all. What do women, regardless of their background, need living in these areas or in other areas? We need more cops. That is why the government has announced that we are also strengthening the police in different ways, and that is, of course, a good contribution. The minister responsible will debate here later today. However, there are countries that have lots of policemen and yet are not good at gender equality. It is not all that is needed, but one needs a society that is permeated by the idea of the equal value of women and men and where all the authorities carry it in their spines. It is not possible to do just one thing, but one must have a strong conviction about equality. What we have often experienced, I think, is ridicule, reducing and mocking when it comes to methods of equality. It is often the women's movement that makes proposals, and so you think it is silly and ridiculous with gender initiatives in preschools and schools, in research or whatever it is. I am absolutely convinced that there is a great deal we can do with the methods that fortunately exist in Sweden and that we have financed jointly. Above all, we can move from project form to more national efforts to strengthen our authorities at all. When I meet the authorities participating in the programme on gender mainstreaming, I see that today they have one, I would say, very mature way of looking at gender equality, which they did not have when we started working on this 20 years ago. We must do all this at the same time, because it is – and to make concrete decisions – that creates equality in a society.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-72	Mr President, I would like to My humility forbids me to ask whether there is non-subversive criminal activity. However, we can develop that some other time. Jeff Ahl has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to restore order in vulnerable areas. The existence of problems in certain residential areas is not a new matter for the government, and a number of measures have been taken to improve the situation in these areas. Last year, the government presented a long-term reform programme to reduce segregation in the country. Exposed residential areas will be lifted through more jobs, better schooling, reduced housing segregation and increased support for civil society. We are also investing in measures in my area of responsibility – combating crime and increasing security. The government reviews the penalties for attacks on blue light personnel and investigates how faster prosecution can be achieved through, for example, on-call courts. Authorities working against organised crime have been given increased opportunities to exchange information, and 12 authorities have been tasked with further developing their joint work against organised crime with a particular focus on vulnerable areas. The government's efforts to combat organised crime have so far resulted in a change in a number of provisions. Among other things, attempts, preparation and conspiracy to commit serious and particularly serious weapons crimes have been criminalised. Leaders of criminal networks can now be brought to justice because they have not prevented serious crimes of which they are aware, and the possibility of confiscation of criminal profits has been increased. There has already been a reinforcement of resources in the local police areas that need it most. According to the Police Authority's annual report, all nine local police areas with particularly vulnerable areas have a reinforced police resource compared to 2015. The government has thus implemented a series of measures to create good living conditions and a safer society for all, regardless of where you live. This work continues with unabated intensity.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-79	Mr President, I would like to It is unacceptable that the attacks on police stations throughout our country are being carried out. It is unacceptable for fireworks to be pushed into the homes of ordinary citizens. It is unacceptable for traders to be subjected to continuous blackmail. It is unacceptable for journalists, postmen and others to be unable to carry out their work in the outlying areas. It is unacceptable for hand grenades to be thrown into the homes of ordinary citizens. It is unacceptable for hand grenades to be thrown at police vehicles. It is unacceptable for children to die because they do not contribute from a political point of view the resources and tools needed to maintain order. It is unacceptable for criminal elements to carry out vehicle checks. And it is definitely unacceptable that criminal elements carry out their own justice in certain areas of exclusion in our country, Mr President. Mr President, I would like to This is subversive criminal activity. Subversive activities must be dealt with by all available means from the Swedish authorities. On Saturday, February 18, a policeman had to open fire during a riot in Rinkeby. The arrogance of the Minister for Home Affairs shone through quite clearly when, in order to maintain the false picture that there are no far-reaching problems in Sweden, he claimed that there was a bit of a mess in Rinkeby – where a policeman had to shoot the action fire. I wonder how the Foreign Minister thinks when he speaks in such a spectacular way. I don't understand that. The police note that there is a lack of staff to combat the criminal elements of our society in a sustainable manner. What does the government have to do? Firstly, it is necessary to change the laws so that the police can use the military to maintain order in exceptional situations. For example, it may be in large-scale riots, to assist in shooting at the fire department and ambulance – which we know is a problem – or to help guard police cars so that the police do not have to go in with double patrols during certain interventions. In addition, many criminal networks are armed with military equipment. After all, hand grenades have already been thrown at the police, and the risk that they will be used more extensively in the future is, unfortunately, increasingly likely. The criminals should then know that there is access, and fast such, to a violent capital they will never be able to match. Only the Swedish Armed Forces have that kind of violent capital on the broad side, Mr President. This should, of course, be a temporary solution until the forces of law and order themselves are able to deal fully with the situation. Secondly, laws are needed that allow for criminal provocation and extended possibilities for bugging, interception, infiltration and more. The police simply need to have more and more effective methods to combat these subversive criminal elements. Thirdly – and this is the most important thing – we must have a new police leadership in this country, a management that takes the problem seriously and has the attitude that the monopoly of violence must be maintained at all costs. The police do not exist for themselves, but to defend the law-abiding citizens of society against those who have left themselves out of the law and abuse the law-abiding citizens. The police must therefore stop being defensive. It will solve its tasks, and it will require clear and resolute leadership. I therefore have a few supplementary questions for the Minister for Home Affairs. Does the Minister of the Interior understand that the monopoly of violence is a fundamental condition for the functioning of the rule of law? How should laws be enforced if the monopoly of violence is eliminated? And does the Minister of the Interior understand that concrete and resolute action is needed here and now? The problems have continued to escalate and will continue to escalate. There must be decisive action here and now.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-89	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, I am Minister of the Interior and not Minister of Foreign Affairs. It may be useful to clarify this in the Minutes. Secondly, I have not expressed myself in the way that Jeff Ahl is expressing in relation to the incident he is referring to. It's completely false. Thirdly, we have a simple order in Sweden and, in fact, in all other constitutional states: the police maintain order in peacetime, and the military maintains order in elevated preparedness or state of war. The government has no reason to change that order, and I do not believe that any other rule of law in the world has it either. Unlike Jeff Ahls's boys' room fantasy about military deployment, the government has taken concrete action. There are now 300 more police officers in the affected areas than just a year ago. We spend more money on the police than ever before, and there are more police employees than ever before. If Jeff Ahl had left the grid's more shady parts and travelled around the residential areas he is talking about, he would also have been able to see that there has been a positive change in several of them. However, this change has not happened because tanks or special units have been sent in, but because the police have been present in the area. Criminals have been arrested and prosecuted. People have also been put into work and education – something that would probably have been impossible if the economic policies of the Swedish democrats were prevailing. You have significant tax cuts for the rich as an alternative, Jeff Ahl.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-94	Mr President, I would like to The Home Secretary's arrogance continues, as usual. After all, there are other countries that use military assistance in extraordinary situations. That the Minister of the Interior stands and makes up his mind. The Home Secretary has a vocabulary that I strongly question. Stitch means in the Swedish riots of the Minister for the Interior. Challenges are subversive criminal activity. Strullputtar, which the Home Secretary has also used, is a serious criminal. Anders Ygeman! It's time for you to get your act together. You're supposed to be a statesman, but unfortunately you don't. You show yourself just like the politician you are: completely paralysed. Besides, you're lying. You're talking about me leaving the darker parts of social media or the Internet-- I don't really know what you mean by this. But this is how it is, Anders Ygeman : I talk to those who work with these questions. For example, I have been told by a centrally located police source that it is currently standing and weighing but that, as usual, it is darkened from the police's top management and that the lid is put on. This is the police leadership that Anders Ygeman defends at any given time, despite the total failure that we see. I have also talked to ordinary police officers who confirm exactly what I stand here and tell them: that in some parts it is totally unsustainable and that it continues to escalate. It is possible to see a positive development in individual cases here and there, but one must look at the whole picture, Anders Ygeman. You can't see individual events here or there as something positive when the whole thing just gets worse. You're talking about the police making the arrest. But during the riot on February 18 no one was arrested, Anders Ygeman. No one was arrested on that occasion! A year and a half ago we stood here having the same debate. Do you know what you promised me then, Anders Ygeman? You promised it would get better. But it hasn't gotten any better. The shootings are skyrocketing. The chaos is increasing. Regular police officers continue to leave their jobs and refer to their poor working conditions. In addition to this, I am told by various police officers how bad things are. Yet the Minister for the Interior continues to lie to the entire Swedish people. Furthermore, Mr President, I wonder whether the Minister for Home Affairs ever reads reports from the police during his professional practice. Or does he sit and fantasize and write his own flosskels to defend a policy that is completely unsuccessful?
i-9732fb8f414833eb-105	Mr President, I would like to Jeff Ahl is worried about my language. Maybe Jeff Ahl should think about his own language. Jeff Ahl is worried about my picture of reality and my description of reality. Maybe Jeff Ahl should worry a little about his own reality picture and his own reality description. Perhaps supposed conversations with police officers are a little worse ground to stand on than the facts. I think Jeff Ahl would do everyone a favor if he kept to the facts and things that can be verified instead of to his own hearsay. We can say that while Jeff Ahl says that everything has gotten worse, as he himself said, the deadly violence in society is decreasing. Assault in society is decreasing. But it's Jeff Ahl not interested in telling you about, because he's focused on something completely different. If Jeff Ahl had read Dagens Nyheter's report on development in socially vulnerable areas, he would have seen that development has in many cases reversed. If Jeff Ahl had visited Bishopsgården, where the police are doing great work and where the police have become more, he would have seen the same thing. He'd seen criminals getting locked up. He had seen citizens taking responsibility. What if Jeff Ahl had been to Hammarkullen when the police raided the basements and led out criminals and the residents of Hammarkullen applauded on the balconies? What conclusion had Jeff Ahl drawn from it? If Jeff Ahl had at least managed to read a newspaper article about the events in Rinkeby that he makes the whole basis of his interpellation, he would have seen that it was just a arrest that was the prelude to the riots, as I think we can call it, in Rinkeby. If he had read any of these newspaper articles, he would also have seen that the quotation he attributed to me was about something quite different. But it doesn't fit Jeff Ahl's world view, because according to Jeff Ahls's world view, everything – everything – is heading in the wrong direction, and it's someone else's fault. The fact that Jeff Ahls's budget would mean less money to put people to work, less money to put people into education and less investment in the vulnerable areas ignores Jeff Ahl in. We have great challenges. We are taking very strong action. This year alone, we are spending 700 million extra on the police, and we are going to have over 10,000 more police workers in the coming years. We have a policy to meet the challenges facing Sweden. Jeff Ahl only has rumors and black paintings.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-116	Mr President, I would like to I urge the Minister of the Interior one more time: Read the reports! Talk to the police who are not called Dan Eliasson and constantly lie to the Swedish people and darken what is happening. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats want to take responsibility. We want to defend those people who are trying to make their lives go together in these exclusion areas. We refuse political paralysis. The monopoly of violence is a fundamental prerequisite for the functioning of the rule of law and must therefore be maintained. Our mission as a politician is not to dwindle with felons, which previous governments have laid the foundations for. Instead, our mission is to defend the rule of law. Then a realistic policy must prevail, and then we must have courageous politicians who are prepared to shoulder their responsibilities to protect law-abiding citizens at all costs. The police must be given an extended toolbox, as the Home Secretary often repeats but never has a policy for. The Moderates and Social Democrats continue apatheticly to watch as development escalates more and more. Therefore, I finally turn to all Swedes around Sweden: Do you realize that these problems are increasingly creeping outside the alienation areas? They have already done so to some extent, but they will do so even more. One day it will be your son or daughter who will be in great trouble. It is your choice if you want the situation to continue to escalate or if it is to be resolved. It is up to you if we are to make Sweden a safe country again. 2018 is your choice if we continue to have a gravely incompetent government or a government that takes hold of the problems and ensures that you and your children are protected from what we see.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-122	Mr President, I would like to If it hadn't been so tragic, it could have been a great sense of humor. The party whose judicial spokesperson is the subject of a preliminary investigation and suspected of assault stands and maligns itself over the lawsuit in the country. The party with the most criminal parliamentary group of all parties is concerned about crime. You have a little to look at for yourself. Look in your own parliamentary group! There are even leading representatives who are convicted of assaulting the police – the same police as you say your will to protect. Jeff Ahl! I have been in all – all – the socially vulnerable areas and met police officers there. I grew up in Hagsätra, south of Stockholm, which is not a particularly vulnerable area but still a vulnerable area. There is nothing in Hagsätra or Rinkeby that can be solved with tanks, which Jeff Ahl wants to express. On the other hand, there are exclusion, social problems, unemployment and serious crime. We meet crime with more policemen in the streets and squares, a new police station in Rinkeby and hundreds more police officers in the socially vulnerable areas. But exclusion is met by putting people to work, by putting people in education and by making demands. There, the Swedish Democrats are obliged to answer, because your only answer is to close the borders, not to put people to work.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-127	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad has asked me whether I am prepared to work for a salary increase on the police, for example in accordance with the proposal the Liberals have made for an extra SEK 4 000 a month. Roger Haddad has also asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to attract back the trained police officers who left the office for the benefit of another employer outside the Police Authority and Säpo. In addition, Roger Haddad has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to enable Sweden to reach 25 000 police officers within five to seven years. It is of great importance that the Police Authority is a workplace where people seek and want to stay. In order to make the police profession even more attractive, the Police Authority, together with the trade unions, is working on long-term issues relating to organisational culture, leadership and employeeship. Within the framework of this work, issues related to career opportunities within the Agency are also discussed. In accordance with the principles of state employers' policy and taking into account the objectives and financial framework set by the Riksdag and the Government for their activities, the social partners shall continue their long-term work on important issues relating to working conditions and wage formation, for which they are responsible according to the Swedish labour market model, without the involvement of the Government. In the case of police officers who have chosen to terminate their employment with the Police Authority, this is primarily a matter for the employer. I know that the Police Authority is working to contact people who have stopped to give them the opportunity to tell them the reasons for the decision and also to give them the opportunity to return to the profession. I see this as a good opportunity for the Police Authority to obtain important information for the continued work on the issues of organisational culture, leadership and employeeship. In addition to the SEK 2 billion in addition to the Swedish Police Authority announced in the 2017 budget proposal, the Government proposes an increase of the Swedish Police Agency's funding for the current year by SEK 700 million in the spring budget. In addition, the Government sees a need for the activities of the Police Authority to continue to be strengthened. The Government therefore intends to return to the issue in the 2018 Budget Bill. It is good that the Social Democrats and the Liberals agree that Sweden needs more police officers.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-132	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank Minister Ygeman for his answer to my interpellation. It was submitted before Easter, on 5 April, on the basis of the discussion we have had and conducted for over a year about the situation in vulnerable areas and particularly vulnerable areas, but also the critical situation, to say the least, within the Police Authority. Before Christmas, we from the Liberals also had a debate with the Government with a particular focus on police training, which also has its problems with recruitment. Ultimately, it is a matter of securing competence within the Swedish police. This applies both to investigator capacity and uniformed police who can be out in the streets and squares and get closer to the citizens. Statskontoret's report showed that, despite the reorganisation, there is still potential for improvement when it comes to coming down to local police areas and getting closer to the citizens. Unfortunately, we get indications that in some places we have moved further from the citizens, away from external service to internal service and into police houses. In parallel with this, Mr President, there are problems with leaving the police profession. Some say there were 400 to 500 police officers who left last year. All together, if you include early retirement and those who have retired definitively, you are up to over 900 people. But let me stick to the 300 – 400 who could still have remained in the police profession but gave up, for example because of shortcomings in the working environment or career prospects, as the Government pointed out in its interpellation response, but also because of wage developments. The background to this interpellation was that the Liberals are now making a further effort in addition to the 50 million that we presented already last autumn to increase the salaries of police officers in external service. One might think that 50 million is not money, but it should be compared with the fact that the government in its budget to the Police Authority last autumn added 100 extra million in total, of which 25 million to the work against so-called cabotage. In addition to the investment we made in more police officers and more investigators, we started from the Liberals an investment in the salaries of police officers in external service. It is an important message that I would like to send out to the Swedish police that, in terms of our police policy, we want to get more police out in external service. It's a huge challenge. What concerns us most right now is the drop-out from the police profession and that police training cannot fill its seats. At the turn of the year, we had a net loss of 186 police officers. There are therefore more police officers leaving the police profession, leaving their important mission in the service of democracy, for the benefit of other tasks, including on the basis of wages. Before it is time for Minister of the Interior Anders Ygeman to speak again, I would like to say that I do not think I have really received answers to my questions. Is the government prepared to invest, for example, SEK 4 000 extra per policeman to raise police salaries? The government's answer here states that wages are up to the employer's parties and that the government should not interfere. But I looked closely at another press conference yesterday that the School Commission had with three ministers from the same government that Ygeman is part of, and they talked a lot about wage initiatives on the initiative of the government.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-140	Mr President, I would like to I take advantage of the opportunity to supplement Roger Haddad's interpellation, because it concerns a subject on which I have exercised. This is about the possibility of using retired police officers in some way, and I am thinking in particular of sparsely populated areas. Today you can sometimes wait for several hours, or the police are not even able to send anyone. A possible cost-effective solution to make citizens feel that the police are more likely to come could be for police officers who have retired voluntarily to offer to respond to a hotline number and to serve in cases that might not otherwise be able to attend. They could even enter temporarily as substitutes so that regular investigations and the like do not occur in absenteeism. Being complementary and able to respond to citizens' needs even as retired police could also have the advantage of transferring experiences between generations and learning from each other. There are therefore several advantages to this. If we agree – and it is all parties, it seems – that there is a need for more police officers, there is a resource here that could possibly contribute. I am not asking the Government today to take a stand on this issue, but I would like him to offer himself an opportunity to look at it. Can retired police officers, especially in sparsely populated areas, help to shorten response times, provide citizens with a little more service at a reasonable cost and get knowledge transfer across generational boundaries? The emergency time may also be considerably shorter, and it may also be cheaper if a nearby policeman can respond instead of sending out someone who is several hours away. It can therefore even be eco-efficient.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-143	Mr President, I would like to Thanks to both Roger Haddad and Carl Schlyter! I will try to answer the questions that were asked. I think that both these debates show the complexity of wage setting and why politicians should probably stay away from it anyway. The police have by far the most generous and best pension agreement on perhaps the entire Swedish labour market and certainly on the state labour market. This is because the police union has pushed that instead of getting wage development, you should be able to retire at the age of 61. This is much earlier than for other groups in the labour market. This is a priority that the police have made because they think it is important in terms of the working environment and working conditions that they have. You could have taken it out in higher wages instead but have chosen not to. My brief answer to Carl Schlyter's question is yes. Of course we should be able to use people who are 62 years old and want to work as police, not as some kind of rural coverage, but as ordinary and real police officers. Let me also say that the longest median time for prio 1 alarms in sparsely populated areas today is 13 minutes. We'll find it in Norrland. The shortest median time is in Stockholm, and it is just under 10 minutes. So it's the range of prio 1 alarms in the country. It is not that no one comes to those who are farthest away. Of course, there are those who are very far from a police patrol in a special situation where the situation is different, but in general we have quite good response times on the most important alarms. To Roger Haddad, I must first express my gratitude for raising these issues. In principle, we have identified the same issues, and I think it is important that we can move forward and improve them. As I told Carl Schlyter, I don't believe in government wage formation. On the other hand, I believe that in the next few years we will have to provide the police with substantial financial resources. The 700 million we're shooting this year is just a start. To this should be added the efficiency improvements of the police that must be made. The benefits of the reform must be recovered. If this is achieved, there is also considerable scope for improving the working environment and working conditions for the police. However, it must not be done in such a way that large resources are injected but that efficiency gains are not realised. Even though I'm going to add to the former moderate-led government because they contributed a lot of resources to the police didn't increase efficiency. So, now that we are making even greater increases to the police, we need to be good at getting efficiency out. It is true that there are some empty seats at the Police College. But that's because we doubled the number of seats. There are more young people reading to the police now than in many years. We need to make significant recruitment efforts. We need to open new police colleges, in Malmö, Gothenburg and Borås, possibly elsewhere. And we need much better forms of distance learning. We've changed the admission system so you now know where you're going to be on duty. I think it will lead to a lot more people choosing to study to be a police officer. We also need to broaden the recruitment ground in order to become a police officer. I think Roger Haddad agrees with me on that. Although there are 8 000 applicants to 800 places, it is still too small a group of Swedes who feel that the police profession could be something for them. There we have a common task. I think the salary is important. I believe that working conditions are important. But I also think it is important that we now start talking well about Swedish police. I think it leads to many people wanting to be part of the corps that made such heroic efforts when Sweden suffered the terrible event.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-155	Mr President, I would like to Just increasing the number of places in police training does not solve the situation. We need to talk about quality and delivery, not quantity and new police colleges, when we are in a situation where we cannot even fill the existing places. Although we still have a search print of the equivalent of 8 000 applicants, it is a half-life of five years, from 16 000 to 8 000 applicants, of which 6 000 are eligible. Yet we do not manage to fill the seats. We in the Liberals are opposed to the abolition of talent tests or eligibility requirements, etc. There must be other elements in the admission process that can lead to us getting more into the existing places. We're in favour of broadening police training. I myself was a member of the National Police Board and stopped the decision to remove the quota from folk high schools. It is precisely this way, in addition to the traditional roads, that you can get a chance to go to the police profession. It is positive that it is still there, and we will do more. Nevertheless, the government and the Government do not answer the question of wages. I have always been a school politician in my party until recently. We'll bet on teachers' salaries. We do that locally, and we want to do it nationally. But the government has also shown that it wants to make national wage investments in the teaching profession – Sweden's most important profession. Now we are in the same situation when it comes to another important societal actor and function, namely the Swedish police. We're seeing dropouts. The seats are not filled. It is not least about how to stop the escape from the police profession – the core of the interpellation. How are we going to keep the policemen, girls and guys who have actively turned to this fine and important profession? I mean, it's not just about retired cops. I agree with Carl Schlyter that you can get more people back into the profession, but not just like in Malmö where you bring retired experts into murder investigations. We'll definitely vacuum and get them back into the organization. What pains me most, however, is that young, newly graduated police officers serve for one or two years and then leave the profession. It may also be the way to train yourself to be a police officer but still choose to go to another employer. They're signals. It's nothing new. We had a similar debate exactly a year ago. We started with written tests. Then we have had a number of debates in this House about precisely the police dropout. I do not think the government has done enough. I still want answers to the concrete question of wage-setting. It is a very important and central component to reverse the situation within the Swedish police. The government responds to my interpellation that the agency is now calling around asking police if they want to come back. It could be happening. But there is a concern. It is again a question of the budget. I was in Halland a few weeks before Anders Ygeman and met police officers in Kungsbacka and Varberg. There are actually policemen who want to come back, but there is no budget for it. I have also heard that in my region, in Västmanland. There are of course examples where you want to recruit and have money – Södertälje for example – but they have no applicants. There is much more to be done to keep and develop police officers in the profession.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-167	Mr President, I would like to I agree with the Government that it is appropriate that such a reform should not only apply to rural areas if it is implemented – of course. On the other hand, I think it is important that we agree that we can also help with prio 2 alarms. Even a densely populated area like Roslagen had as late as 2014 an average response time of 51 minutes. Then it could be good if the police can help by going out on more prio 2 alarms, also within a reasonable time. I wouldn't interfere with the pay line. It is normal negotiation that applies there. But I would like the Government to look at an agreement, at whether it is appropriate for such police officers to be unarmed or armed and on what other conditions and requirements they could make. If we can find a good form of opportunity and predictable conditions for retired police officers who wish to contribute voluntarily after their retirement age, I think we could help reduce the shortage of trained police officers. The retired police officers could be deployed as additional resources.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-170	Mr President, I would like to I have absolutely no problem with that, Carl Schlyter. I think Roger Haddad expressed how retired police officers in Malmö have come back and made great efforts in murder investigations there. That is a shining example. However, I object to calling Roslagen densely populated. It is actually a sparsely populated area, even if it is located in a metropolitan region, with many islands and long distances. But otherwise, I'm prepared to meet Carl Schlyter. Roger Haddad is asking about pay. I think there are police officers who are dissatisfied with their salaries. At the same time, there are many police officers who have very good wages. The reason I want to invest money in the police and let the employer pay the salary negotiations is that salary is quite complicated. The right police should have the right salary. For that, I think the police are far better sent than politicians. It's easy to talk about raising wages. But if we get a political wage formation, we will also have politicians who want to lower wages. There are a number of representatives here in Parliament who actually want to do so. I don't believe in that form of wage formation. Roger Haddad says we have to think about quality and not quantity when choosing police officers. I believe that we must have both quality and quantity. It is a quality in itself to have many colleagues and know that you get support and backup in difficult situations. Let me put two questions back to Roger Haddad! Are the Liberals prepared to discuss the higher education required by the police union? Then we get a quality assured education and can increase the quality of police training which thus also gives credits, which can lead to more can be recruited for police training. My second question concerns how he responds to the demands of some political parties in the former alliance government to have a very short period of training for police officers, what the police union calls B-police. The training to become a cop would be six months or a year. How does Roger Haddad feel about this requirement when he says that we should prioritise quality and not quantity? It would be interesting to know. I object to the idea that it is an escape from the police. We can discuss whether the number of officers leaving is large or small. The number is higher than before in the police. However, it is significantly lower than in the Swedish labour market in general or in the state labour market. There are low numbers of staff turnover. I believe that, as the labour market develops, it will be natural for more policemen to choose to try out other professions. But I also believe that many of them will come back to the police and see the benefits of it.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-179	Mr President, I would like to There were no requests in the Police Training Investigation from any parties to shorten the training. It may have come later, but that is not something we are behind. At two out of three higher education institutions, police students who complete the police education are already receiving 80 credits. I hope that these academic points are compatible, comparable, with the requirements of the Higher Education Act. What we are opposed to is extending police training and theorizing it further. There is also a demand from the parliamentary majority that if you are going to develop police education, we want to see more practical steps. It is mainly a vocational training, a craft, in which you will be able to cope with increasingly tough situations in society. I read in the Minister's written reply that he is not in favour of a regime in which the parliament or government says that the salaries of the police should be increased. But it is clear that it is permissible to say at the Ministry of Education and at Social Democratic and Environmental Party press conferences that it is important to raise teachers' salaries. Nevertheless, you must take a line on this issue. Either you can do it, or you can't do it. With my background as a local politician and as a Member of Parliament, I still know so much that if we do not create budgetary space and do not say that we want to increase teachers' salaries or career opportunities, then that is not the case. It is not enough simply to allocate 700 extra million that the government has now presented. This money will primarily be used to cover the costs incurred last autumn when the chief police officer employed more civilians. Thank you for the debate.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-184	Mr President, I would like to I find it difficult to follow Roger Haddad's final argument. If there were to be special budget appropriations for wage increases and no other wage increases, that would mean that the Liberals did not want nurses, nurses or doctors to have any wage increases. I don't think that's the case. I think the Liberals think these are hardworking groups that deserve a good and high salary. It's exactly the same in the police. Wages shall be paid in the course of negotiations between employers' and workers' organisations. I think police officers deserve a good salary for the hard work they do. We will make sure to provide substantial resources to develop Swedish police in the future. The discussion on training may be continued. I am sensitive to the views expressed by Roger Haddad and others in the Alliance. I may find it a bit problematic in this context that it is only in two places in Sweden where those who take part in police training get a kind of academic score. If you take part in police training in the third place, you may not. It's a system we should be thinking about. It should be a more equivalent system for all types of education. We also want to expand the Police College with two new locations, so it is important to have an increased uniformity. It is also possible to discuss whether there is a need for more practical steps or practice within the framework of the current training period. Not only is it a practical profession, but there is also considerable complexity in other parts of the profession. It includes a much larger part of IT in the police profession, much more hate and threats online. It is important that the police in this area too can progress in the course of time and investigate these crimes. We could make progress in the political talks here, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank Roger Haddad and Carl Schlyter for this interpellation debate.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-189	Mr President, I would like to Jessica Rosencrantz has asked me whether I intend to start adapting our road structure to self-driving vehicles and start facilitating work for testing or whether I will wait for the final report on the self-driving vehicle investigation on the road. The government has high ambitions in terms of innovation and experimentation throughout the transport sector. In the infrastructure bill for 2018 – 2029, the government stressed that when planning and implementing infrastructure measures, it needs to be increased how new technology affects and places demands on the transport system. This applies, for example, to changes in capacity utilisation in connection with more connected and interoperable vehicles, but also to how vehicle ownership and thus how the need for parking space is affected. The opportunities for digitalisation to improve efficiency, quality assurance and offer alternatives to travel and transport need to be exploited. Connected and automated driving can become one of several tools to create sustainable transport. This requires a broad system perspective that includes, among other things, electrification. In particular, it concerns the development of collective and shared transport. There must therefore be good opportunities to test new technologies and applications. The Swedish Transport Agency has the task of presenting a proposal for the upcoming national traffic law-crossing plan for the transport system. The Finnish Transport Agency will, among other things, describe how the proposal takes into account the possibilities of digitalisation and requirements for an overall plan, as well as how the work takes digitalization into account, including collaboration with broadband roll-out actors in each part of the plan. The government decided yesterday on a regulation on self-driving experiments. The aim is to clarify and improve the possibilities for the safe conduct of experimental activities. According to the regulation, anyone wishing to start a self-driving experiment may apply for a permit from the Swedish Transport Agency. In order to carry out experiments with self-driving vehicles, it is necessary, inter alia, that road safety can be ensured during the experiment and that there is a physical driver inside or outside the vehicle. The Regulation will enter into force on 1 July 2017. The further investigation into the adaptation of that regulatory framework to allow the implementation of connected and automated vehicles will present its final report in November this year. Sweden is actively involved in the international forum where the development and regulation of connected and automated driving is discussed. The Government's focus is to promote the safe development of this technology. The obstacles that may exist in the international regulatory frameworks and conventions in this area must be removed. Within the EU, Sweden belongs to the countries most active in the development of permitting rules, recommendations and opportunities, provided that traffic and data security can be ensured. Within the EU there are several important ongoing working groups on data transfer, privacy, safety issues, vehicle regulations, environmental and climate regulation, infrastructure and more. So there are a number of important processes going on in parallel. Some of the international processes must be resolved together, while other things can be done and done nationally already now. Together and by exchanging experiences, we can create good conditions for the transport system of the future.
i-DtZyUwRvjk9kA4hNebigJh	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The trend towards self-driving cars is very fast. What was viewed a few years ago as science fiction is now reality. Most researchers and experts agree that technology exists, but that it is the policy and regulatory framework that is lagging behind. Over a year ago, the government's own investigator presented a proposal on how we could get a test operation for self-driving vehicles in place. Yet it has taken the government a whole year to come up with a proposal for this first step. It cannot be stressed enough, Mr President, what uncertainty it creates for actors who are thinking about which country to choose to invest and invest in their experimental activities. It is not only here in Sweden that we want investments in new technology and innovation. Around Europe and around the world, people are struggling to be at the forefront and be on their toes in the face of this new technology. Mr President, I would like to It is good that the government is now finally acting to get a test business in place. I will not say that it is thanks to this interpellation, but I can only say that it pays to lie down, because the government made decisions yesterday. I shall now move on to the next step on this important issue. At DN Debate, the government's own investigator wrote last autumn that the government cannot afford to wait for the investigation to come. The state and the municipality are already lagging behind today, and there is much to be done now, he points out. It can be about how we plan for housing construction and infrastructure. Maybe the new infrastructure will last 100 years. When we build it today, we have to think from the outset about the self-driving vehicles. Because, Mr President, self-driving cars can completely radicalise how we build our neighbourhoods and what areas we reserve for parking in a position where the self-driving car can actually go and park itself. There may be more of us who can share the same car, since it is self-driving and can engage with others while we ourselves are at work, for example. I welcome the government's first step, but my question is: how does the government envisage the next step? The government's own investigator says that the government cannot afford to wait but must act here and now to prepare the way for the new technology. How does the government act for the next step? Will we, for example, see in the new national plan some elements that contain thoughts and ideas on how we can make room here and now for the self-driving cars?
i-9732fb8f414833eb-204	Mr President, I would like to It is quite true, as Jessica Rosencrantz says, that technological developments are moving very fast and the regulations are having difficulty keeping up with them at the same pace. One can be critical of the government having taken one year, but then one should be aware that Sweden is the first in the world to have legislation in this area. Most countries are far behind. Sweden also has a very active and active role both in the EU and in the work that is going on within various UN agencies. A large part of road traffic is governed by the EU and international regulations, and that means that we have to adapt our pace to them in part. We cannot have legislation in Sweden that clearly violates, for example, the Geneva Convention or other conventions. That is why this work is extremely important. Another aspect is that it is of course important that the systems that are now being developed and which technological development allows for work together. One cannot develop a system of self-driving, automated driving in one EU country that is not compatible at all with what is being developed in another EU country. For this reason too, there are good arguments for the development to take place in collaboration. The government isn't just waiting. On the contrary, very active work is being done on this issue. This applies partly at international level, partly with the wording we have in the infrastructure bill and in the directives that the Swedish Transport Administration has received in preparation for its work on the plan of action. It clearly states that the planning work should increase the opportunities offered by digitalisation and other technological developments. There are also many exciting larger and smaller projects and development work going on. Of course, I always mention Drive Me, which is an extremely exciting test business in Gothenburg. There is also a lot going on within the framework of research in the collaboration programme that the government has initiated and which is called Next Generation Travel and Transport. There, self-driving vehicles are one of the projects identified. Overall, it can be said that even if you think it is slow, Sweden is the fastest, and we should continue to be. This will, of course, also be a matter of positive positioning. We must give our extremely important automotive industry the opportunity to be at the forefront. It is also about inviting vehicle manufacturers and others from other countries who can use Sweden as a test site. Sweden is also at the forefront when it comes to being open to new technologies, and we are at the forefront of technological development and can offer test activities and possibilities. I think that on this issue we have more to be proud of, and more to manage in a good way, than to be ashamed of.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-211	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the Government is showing a clear ambition to want to affirm the self-driving cars. I would, however, possibly warn her not to be too sure about the fact that Sweden is always in the front line. As recently as yesterday, I spoke to an operator in the transport industry who said that several other countries may not have developed new regulations but that in those countries with existing regulations they can carry out much easier testing activities than can be done in Sweden today. It is good if we get regulations in place, but we must also not drag it out indefinitely so that we lose our opportunities. It is also not good enough to always refer to the EU. I've heard the Government do so regarding drone politics and a variety of other areas. It is good to synchronise with the EU, but that must not mean that Sweden is rolling its thumbs in the meantime. Mr President, I would like to However, allow me to say that the opposition has some concerns about the government's road policy, with which road-driving cars can also be linked. I am not just talking about kilometre tax and increased fuel tax and diesel tax, which is the most obvious proof of an anti-road policy. I have often been amazed that the government is slowing down good reforms that can develop road traffic. When we have demanded a continued strategy for the development of electric roads, the government has said that we should first evaluate and take it easy. It also does not want to present real reforms for heavy goods vehicles which would enable more efficient lorry transport. Now we see that it also takes its time in the area of self-driving cars. It is possible that it is the other government party that is slowing down. I know that, for example, if I put the question to my environmentalist colleague and the chairman of the Transport Committee, Karin Svensson Smith, she would quickly reply that the main proof of new technology in the government's transport policy is high-speed. And it is high-speed trains for 230 billion, which the government has no problem at all. I'd love it to be quick, too. However, we do not see the same enthusiasm for self-driving cars. Mr President, I would like to It is possible, then, that this is about the other government party, rather than the Social Democrats. After all, however, this gets caught up in the internal coordination of the Government Office, which is very regrettable. Let me repeat my question. The Government is committed to include digitalisation in the new national transport plan. Are self-driving cars included when the Government talks about digitalisation? How does the Government view the DN Debate article that the government investigator himself wrote? In it he stated the following: It is therefore with some surprise that I have noted that preparations and planning for a higher degree of automation in road traffic in the state and the municipality are still very limited. There is much that can be done without obstacles from ongoing investigation work. He then raises a number of examples: the need to map suitable routes and paths for self-driving vehicles, municipal urban planning work, parking policy and accessibility strategies. You have to think of the car as self-driving in the near future. Nevertheless, we are talking about a transport plan that spans twelve years, which is quite a long time. If we do not act quickly, technology risks beating politics, Mr President.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-219	Mr President, I would like to I do not really know where to start, because the idea that Jessica Rosencrantz has that the government is not committed to self-driving vehicles and the development of such technologies simply does not match reality. On the contrary, as I mentioned, we are extremely active in international arenas, in the EU and here at home in Sweden to support the new technology and create the conditions for testing. The next transport plan will not arrive until spring 2018. To criticize it seems a little strange. It is very possible that Jessica Rosencrantz will do so in the spring of 2018, but to do so now feels a little too early. It is clearly stated in both the proposal text and the directives to the Swedish Transport Administration that the new technology should be increased. Of course, it also includes self-driving vehicles. Of course, most urban development projects of a larger nature also take into account what future transport solutions look like. It is about electrification and other types of logistics than we may be used to today. And of course it is also about self-driving vehicles, more car pools and less own ownership. All of this is a natural part of developing new urban environments, residential areas and, to the extent possible, urban centres. This requires great synergy. You can of course say that you should always run very fast, but it is good if it is also right. Although technology exists and is no longer science fiction but science fact, it is so far in development, and we do not really know what demands it will make on, for example, road infrastructure. It is not entirely clear that the technology we have today is exactly the technology that will be in place in ten years' time. That's the difficulty in this. The development is very rapid, and it is very difficult to fully predict what the demands of technological development will be on social functions in general. This applies to everything from regulations, liability issues – which of course are important to sort out – personal integrity and camera surveillance to purely spatial planning. All these issues are very high on the government's agenda, and they are not still there, but we are working extremely actively with them in different ways. I would like to re-emphasise the cooperation programmes. One of these projects focuses on self-driving electrified vehicles and mobility services related to this. There are also other parts in this that interact with automated driving. It is about that mobility may mean quite different things in the rather near future than it may have done so far. This also means that business models are affected. We are on the brink of a revolution in this area, which is extremely exciting but which requires action and also a little reflection.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-225	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. I am not criticising a national plan that does not exist, but is asking what will be included in the future national plan. If it is the case that the Government can secure me that there will be parts about digitalisation and self-driving vehicles, it is very good. Then we can agree that this is the right way to go. What I am concerned about, Mr President, is that if we continue at this rate, i.e. if the government investigator Bjelfvenstam presents his final report in 2017, and the government will once again take a year before it makes concrete proposals, we may even be in the next government when the proposals come. Hopefully it is in itself an alliance government, and then we can act, but, Mr President, it is regrettable if it is to take such time. I have full respect for the fact that these are complex issues and that you should not rush off in haste, but that also means that it is very important to start thinking in these courses right now. It is clear that municipalities, regions and states still treat self-driving cars as science fiction and not science fact, and that is worrying, Mr President. The purpose of this interpellation debate is simply to ensure that the government is on its toes. I think it is extremely important that we endorse the various ongoing revolutions on the road side. Self-driving cars are one example. Yesterday I was at a big conference. Unfortunately, I do not think anyone from the Social Democrats was there, but several other political representatives were. We discussed how the collaborative economy can develop in Sweden with more car pools and liberalised regulations around our various transport services. That is the right way to go, and we have to accept that. When we talk about twelve-year national transport plans to be decided on in spring 2018, we need to think about new technology already there. I look forward to future discussions, debates and swift proposals from the government. We seem to agree on the ambition.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-229	Mr President, I would like to I can assure Jessica Rosencrantz that this is an area with which I and the government are working very intensively, whether or not there are interpellations about it. We see enormous opportunities with this new technology in terms of road safety, more efficient use of transport infrastructure, opportunities to create more people-friendly city centres and so on. This does not mean that it is safe or that there are no problems, so that you can just honk and drive. We also need to take into account all the aspects of uncertainties and threats that come with. It is therefore important that we do a solid job and that the proposals we put forward are well established. I also believe that there is some scepticism among the public. We must ensure that this development is widely accepted. It is therefore important to enable testing activities, so that you can see that this technology works, how it interacts with ordinary driver-controlled traffic, how drivers and vehicles interact, what obstacles exist in the infrastructure and what opportunities exist with connected vehicles. In this experiment it is more about vehicles that read their surroundings, so to speak, but in the future you can also think of vehicles that are steered almost like a master plan. What are the demands on cybersecurity and so on? This is an issue on which we are working intensively. We see huge opportunities. But we must also act in such a way that what we do is right and has broad popular acceptance.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-234	Mr President, I would like to Jessika Roswall has asked me if it is my view that the Swedish Consumer Agency should have the task of influencing people's choices of what to consume for their own money. Sweden has high ambitions in many areas of importance for sustainable development. We are committed to being a leading country in achieving the climate goals and implementing the UN's global sustainability goals. We also have the national environmental quality targets and the generational targets for environmental work decided by the Riksdag. Evaluations show that one of the challenges for achieving environmental objectives is that our consumption patterns need to change. The Government presented a strategy for sustainable consumption last autumn, with a series of efforts to facilitate sustainable consumer action. More sustainable consumption requires a large number of stakeholders to contribute. Governments and authorities are responsible for ensuring that regulatory, supervisory and economic instruments support desirable development. Research and industry contribute with technological achievements and develop business models that streamline resource use. But consumers also have an important role to play. Many consumers want to consume more sustainably, but may need help moving from will to action. For them, the sustainable choice also needs to be the simple choice. Nudging is an established method of facilitating action. We are affected daily in our actions by the way our environment is designed. It can be about the physical environment, business practices and information. One example of simplified information is the energy label on white goods, which facilitates the choice of energy-efficient appliances. Examples of changes in the physical environment can be painted footsteps to bins or the climate-smart option placed at the top of the menu. The method is based on knowledge of people's behaviour and is used in policy contexts in many countries, including the United Kingdom and the United States, where it is seen as a soft complement to other instruments and as a way of making management work more effectively. Sweden is not among the countries most advanced in the use of the method, and it is therefore natural for its possibilities to be analysed. What the Government instructs the Swedish Consumer Agency is to increase knowledge of, and promote the development of, measures that lead to innovation and improved conditions for environmentally sustainable consumption. With regard to nudgeing, the task is to identify, evaluate and disseminate good examples of how environmentally sustainable alternatives can be facilitated and stimulated and, where appropriate, apply the method.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-240	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. First of all, I would like to say that, on behalf of the Swedish Consumer Agency, I am pleased that the government has now left these missions. As the Government says in its reply, this strategy was presented last autumn, eight months ago, but only now has the substance come. It has now been four months of this year. The Swedish Consumer Agency has not known what to do with the money and has not been able to plan. So this is really about time. This may be against my interpellation, so I'll explain a little why I've set the interpellation. As I said, I would like to thank you for the answer, but it is really only the last three and a half lines that answer my question. I would like to point out that I am not against nugging. On the contrary, I think it is a very good way to influence. My interpellation is not about that, but about the role and tasks of the authorities. What is the authority supposed to do? In what cases should an authority use nudge? In which cases is it more appropriate for other subjects – private law entities – to use this method? What is nugging? I have to admit to the Government that I had to look up the floor when it came in the autumn of the budget bill, and I can tell you that it also applied to several others in the Civil Committee. But I've learned now. There has also been a radio programme on P1 regarding research into this. Maybe the word behavioral action better describes it. It is about how both the state and the companies want to wall us towards their goals. I think the government should be able to use nudge. However, I would like to point out that I do not think it is entirely unproblematic when authorities do so. Let me briefly say something about the role of the authorities and what they should do and what they must not do. It is laid down in the constitution, the form of government, that our authorities should comply with law. Then the authorities shall also observe objectivity and impartiality when taking decisions. It is important for this discussion. Then there are a lot of other laws and regulations, as the Government knows, about how authorities can work. Supervision is one of the most important tasks of the authorities. This is particularly important in the area of consumers. As the Government and I agree quite often, there are many areas of problems in that area where supervision is really needed. Another task is to provide guidance and facts. Then it is important that the authority is impartial and objective. It is a tradition that we have in Sweden that I really want to protect. When you do as the government now does when it writes that the authority should apply methods and other things, you still have to be a little careful and observe it. The Government and I have had various discussions about what the objective of consumer policy should be. It may be. However, I share the view that we should work towards sustainable consumption. I have no comments on setting up a forum. I think that's good. But the second task of stimulating environmentally smart consumption patterns is a small problem. I'm going to say something about school quickly. I do not think that is the task of the Swedish Consumer Agency, but the task of the Swedish National Agency for Education. I'm not sure the Swedish Consumer Agency is the best at that. As for the other assignments that are mentioned with behavioral efforts, there are many other organizations. The Nature Conservation Association and Sweden's Consumers are very strong and work very well in this area. Moreover, they are not an authority but have more free rein. I do not think that is the task of the Swedish Consumer Agency. I have suggested several times that the government must be careful when doing this. One could risk damaging the impartiality and objectivity of our authorities. I would like to ask the Government a little more about the three and a half sentences about what is part of the mission. It is about identifying, evaluating and disseminating good examples. What do appropriate methods mean?
i-9732fb8f414833eb-253	Mr President, I would like to First of all, it is a misconception if you think that the strategy for sustainable consumption only includes assignments to the Swedish Consumer Agency. It is a much broader framework in which we reduced VAT on repair services for bicycles, clothing and shoes, for example, to encourage more recycling and reuse and to ensure that things last longer. We also introduced a REP deduction in homes when repairing their appliances to just encourage longer use of things and thus save resources. There are many other components of the sustainable consumption strategy. Now we are taking another step forward in this regard. It is important to keep your tongue right in the mouth when discussing nudge. Nudging is a method that can be placed alongside other methods that we have to influence social activities. We have legislation that prohibits certain activities because we do not think they are appropriate and because they are harmful to our society. We have economic instruments that we use to encourage, for example, the transition to more renewable energy sources and to get away from fossil energy sources. But behavioral science methods can also be very effective, functional and also resource efficient methods to help us people act in a sustainable way. There we know that Swedish consumers are involved. They also clearly say in surveys and other studies that they find it difficult. They feel that they do not have the tools they need. They simply do not get the support they need from society in order to be able to act in a sustainable way. I think that nudging is a method we should develop more. We should learn from how other countries have worked and see how we can use that method. Often the options are much more intrusive in people's everyday lives and affect us as individuals much more. In some cases they do not even admit that we have the freedom of choice that I think we should have as consumers to act as actors in society. For example, one can use a nudge method such as putting footprints in the asphalt up to trash baskets that have been tried in Copenhagen. This increased the amount of waste in waste bins by 50 percent by such a simple measure. It is precisely because we as consumers were given guidance: How we can easily find a place to throw away our ice cream paper or what it can be. One option would be to significantly increase the fine for litter – this could lead to a reduction in people's litter – or a significant increase in monitoring and more police efforts. However, both of these methods would be much more intrusive to our integrity. In addition, they would cost much more money to society. In these cases, I see nugging as a way to really create the best possible conditions for individuals and also for society to work together to achieve goals that we jointly set. Nudging is not mandatory. Rather, it is helpful and encouraging. It is about finding methods to effectively achieve our goals rather than using methods that can be very costly and much more difficult for both society and individuals. The Swedish Consumer Agency has now been tasked with developing more knowledge about the area and learning from how other countries have acted. It is also about learning in networks which actors in Sweden have developed methods that are noted to work well and are effective and then to spread them in their networks and enable other actors to use the same methods for the benefit of achieving our societal goals in the most efficient and easiest way possible. There we see that sustainable consumption is an area where it can be very effective. We know that many market players are already using nudge methods. This applies, for example, to how to place goods in the shelves in the grocery store or why you always have the milk counter in the back. These are examples of nugging to encourage certain consumer behaviour. We think it's natural that you can use that type of nudge activities to steer in a more sustainable direction. We also know that we have strong support from Sweden's consumers to simply make it easy to do the right thing.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-262	Mr President, I would like to Let me say something short about sustainable strategy. It is clear that there are certainly other parts that are included. But the fact is that the Swedish Consumer Agency received money from the end of the year and they have not known what to do. I am glad that they now know that, although I have objections on the substance. There are high environmental standards in both Sweden and the EU. That's what I think the agency should relate to. It becomes problematic when an authority enters areas to provide guidance to consumers on how to shop and behave in the store. The Consumer Ombudsman has interpreted the assignment a little on his blog. She writes: The government wants us to spread knowledge about and contribute to different forms of so-called nudgeging. For example, it is about designing choices and shopping environments in a way that makes it easy for consumers to choose environmentally sound. That's a bit of what the government itself is up to. I do not think it is the task of the Swedish Consumer Agency to deliberately rig, manipulate and ensure how we consumers shop or buy things in a certain way. But that is clearly what the Government and the Consumer Ombudsman think. I have repeatedly pointed out in the speaker's chair the importance of having good consumer information. I think the Swedish Consumer Agency is very good at that. But I am not convinced that it is the task of the Swedish Consumer Agency to keep us in the hands of the store. As I said in the previous speech, there are other bodies that can better do that information and nudging. Now we have heard the Government give some examples from Copenhagen with footsteps. I would like to ask for some more examples of what it means to apply different methods. I would also like the Government to somehow problematise what I am pointing out about the more principled objection not to risk the fine and good management organisation we have where we have great confidence in our authorities. It is important to ensure that our authorities do not lose confidence but that we ensure that our authorities are objective and impartial. I would love to hear more about that. I also have some thoughts and questions about the authorities using tax money to influence us consumers. One can imagine that the Swedish Consumer Agency participates in nudgeing or uses the method. I understand that the Government thinks I will exaggerate when I say that it is manipulating the consumer to choose a certain thing. You can draw it to it if you want. Who then checks that the Swedish Consumer Agency uses the right method? The authority is the one to ensure that we use the right methods and comply with laws. Who controls the Swedish Consumer Agency? The second is in the long run: If I as a consumer feel that I have been manipulated by the Swedish Consumer Agency using a wrong method, who should I turn to? I cannot turn to the Consumer Ombudsman. Who do I turn to? I think there are some problems with this. That is what I want to highlight with the discussion and the interpellation.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-270	Mr President, I would like to I can understand that one should always have a watchful eye on social development and our authorities' activities in general. I am the first to emphasise that. I think we have working systems for this in Sweden. There is review both via the media and through other channels. For example, we have the Riksdag, which has the opportunity to go through the authorities' activities and oppose if you think there are things that do not work. We can also note that many other countries have used these tools considerably longer and more intensively than Sweden has done. In the UK, for example, it was the Conservative Government that already in 2010 started what was called the Behavioural Insights Team. It is precisely a question of using this as a means of improving the efficiency of public administration – simply using our common funds and tax revenues in the most efficient way possible. It was seen as a waste not to use this knowledge because it leads to much higher costs and much greater problems for both society and the individual. I find it difficult to understand why the Conservative Government in the UK saw this as an effective method of use, whereas the Moderates in the Swedish Parliament rather view it as a problem. I take this as meaning that this is not really a right-wing – left-wing issue, but rather something about whether or not we should use effective tools. I hope that the Moderates also agree that it is wise to use the tools that lead most quickly and easily to the effects that we want. We note that authorities have been working for quite a long time to enlighten people and encourage behaviour. This applies, for example, to the Swedish Food Authority, which informs us about the health effects of different food choices. We also have key hole markings, which are intended to tell us precisely which products can lead to positive health effects in relation to others. Does Jessika Roswall want to end this type of activity too, so that they could be misleading or lead us to wallow consumers or manipulate them, which was the concept that Jessika Roswall used? I hope it's not like that. We also have another example: Systembolaget, which uses quite a lot of resources to inform and inform about alcohol consumption and its effects. One could say that they use different types of nudge to try to get us to reduce our alcohol consumption, which is of benefit to many individuals but also to society because it lowers the cost of alcohol damage and the like. As I see it, the problem is rather that when we come up with proposals not least in the area of sustainability and the environment, the moderate reaction is basically always to say no. If we use tax methods, that is, making it more expensive to release things, the Moderates say no. Instead, if we spend money on supporting sustainable practices, the Moderates also say no. We can see this, for example, in the budget motion. When we try to find ways to use, for example, behavioural science knowledge to encourage sustainable behaviour and help consumers to do the right thing, the response is the same. So you mean that you should not really use any methods at all. It is clear that we will not have the effects that we need. Then we will not be able to reduce emissions and reduce our climate impact and environmental impact and reach the sustainable society that the Swedish Parliament still supports. Somewhere, if you support the objectives, you must also have some suggestions on how to achieve them. I find it a little surprising that the Moderates take such a skeptical position even on the softer instruments that nudge is anyway about. However, I do of course think that we should have a critical attitude in some ways. One should not just say: Now the lock gates are open, and now we are going to use this in all areas and for all the different social goals! It is important to do so with thought. But it is precisely with regard to sustainable consumption, where we see such a willingness on the part of consumers to do the right thing but at the same time express the fact that there are difficulties, I think it is an excellent area to use these methods.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-280	Mr President, I would like to I don't think that's surprising. I want to start with the situation in the United Kingdom. In fact, I am not familiar with the same way as the Government, but there is a difference between what is being highlighted there. As I recall, it was about getting people to declare earlier, for example. I think that is a good way, and I said that at the beginning. I thought I was clear. So I am not against nudging or behaviour by the state or companies; I cannot be clear about that. On the other hand, with regard to the examples that have been mentioned now, in this sustainability strategy, it is a matter of following the consumer into the store as a state and authority. I think that is a different matter from following something that is legally bound. On the other hand, I find it surprising that the Government is not reflecting on the risk that I see when we start using our authorities as lobby organisations. I am not at all against the use of effective means. I rather think that more money could have been spent to give to Sweden's Consumers with several organisations that could influence and are not government agencies. There is no risk of affecting the impartiality and objectivity of public authorities. With this, I would like to thank you very much for the debate. I see that this is being done by the government in several other areas, which are not under the responsibility of the Government. Above all, I would like to raise a flag of warning against the use of nugging in the way that can abuse the great responsibility and trust that the authorities have and enjoy today.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-284	Mr President, I would like to First of all, it is a matter of keeping your tongue right when you have this kind of debate. I think calling government activities lobbying is misleading. This is not at all what it is all about, but rather that through different behavioural science knowledge we find ways to make the sustainable choice, which we know the vast majority of Swedes want to make use of, to the easy choice. It is therefore a question of automatic behaviour also leading to positive effects on social development. For me, it's something of a matter of course. I do not understand how one, like Jessika Roswall, might think it okay to use this when it comes to getting people to declare faster but not when it comes to trying to get us to act sustainably as consumers. It's for me something of a logical hill change. We see this as a way to really interact with Sweden's consumers, who show that they want to make a change on a daily basis. We see how consumer behaviour is now developing rapidly. It turns to trying to consume more sustainably. But when we get such clear signals that you also see challenges and think that the whole thing is too complicated and too difficult and simply becomes obstacles in the way of being able to express the will to act sustainably – what is wrong with our authorities being asked to take down these obstacles? It is simply about reducing the costs in time and money for consumers in order to act more sustainably. In my view, this is precisely one way of demonstrating that the state and the authorities are also active. We want to work with consumers to create opportunities. I find it difficult to see the risk of making it easy to do the right thing and to ensure that the instruments we have are used to reduce thresholds and make it easy for consumers to take the sustainability responsibility that they clearly show they want to take.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-287	Mr President, I would like to Sofia Fölster has asked me what measures I will take to reverse the trend with increased hassle for entrepreneurs so that it becomes easier rather than more difficult to start up and run businesses Successful and growing small and medium-sized enterprises that employ are crucial to achieving the government's job goals. The Government is therefore pursuing an active business policy with a focus on measures that improve the conditions for companies and entrepreneurs, which increase Sweden's attractiveness for investments and strengthen incentives to start a business. Several international studies show that the companies in Sweden have very good conditions and framework conditions in relation to the outside world. According to, for example, the World Competitiveness Scoreboard, Sweden came to a fifth place last year, which is an improvement with four investments from the previous year. According to the World Bank's Doing Business Index, which measures how easy it is to start, run and close up businesses, Sweden finds itself in an eighth place last year, which is an improvement with three investments from the previous year. According to Forbes, Sweden has the best business environment in the world. The business environment is strong, companies hire and want to hire and the Swedish Enterprise's report Enterprise 2017 Sweden shows that women's entrepreneurship is increasing and reaching a new record. The companies' experiences of working in Sweden are something the government follows closely. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that many rules surrounding entrepreneurship are important rules of the market and have a safeguard value. It is a constant balance that needs to be struck. By making better use of the opportunities of digitalisation, with more and better digital services and processes, we are simplifying for entrepreneurs and citizens in all parts of the country. Full digital case management makes it easier for companies to do right from the start, to get faster case management and to get more information about case status. With good service and digital services adapted to the needs and conditions of companies, the amount of rules is not as big a problem. The Government has, among other things, commissioned the Swedish Companies Registration Office to introduce a digital service for the submission of annual reports. Electronic financial statements create better opportunities for data to be reused by several authorities and reduce the administrative burden on businesses. The Government's agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council aims to offer entrepreneurs in regular industries national digital solutions in order to, among other things, be able to apply for municipal permits. Initially, work focuses on restaurant entrepreneurs. The digital solutions mean that municipal regulations and licensing are more similar across the country. The initiative is unique in its kind and is expected to lead to real simplification for the companies concerned. During the spring, the Government will also present a digitisation strategy aimed at supporting business and social development. The company site is active.se offers information and services to start and run a business. Active.se is based on the company's perspective and makes it easier to do the right thing. It is therefore good to see that it had 2.3 million users in 2016, which is an increase of 27 per cent compared to the previous year.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-295	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for his reply, although I am concerned that the Minister seems satisfied when eight out of ten entrepreneurs fail the government's work on simplification. I will begin with the question of satisfaction. The Minister refers to a variety of studies from other countries, where comparisons have been made with Sweden. What all the studies have in common is that one does not look specifically at regulatory simplification but at a variety of factors. That is everything from the welfare system to road law, and then some kind of overall assessment is made. The minister mentioned the World Competitiveness Scoreboard, where Sweden has gone up from place nine to place five. It's not really an improvement, it's a recovery. When the Alliance handed over the government power, Sweden was in place four. Then Sweden sank to place nine and has now made a small recovery. That should be taken into account. The Minister also mentioned Forbes. It is clear that you can be satisfied that Sweden is in place one, but if you look at what Forbes indicates as a reason why Sweden is in place one in terms of business climate, there are mainly three factors. The first factor is changes in the health insurance system and tax reductions attributed to the Alliance. The second factor is ten years of financial stability, and during the majority of those years Anders Borg was Minister of Finance. The third factor is free trade. Although we can agree between S and M, the Green Party's parliamentary group has not even decided whether it is in favour of a free trade agreement with Canada. I wouldn't be as happy if I were in the minister's position. There are many reasons to be concerned. The Minister also refers to the need to strike a balance between different rules. Let us look at another study, which relates only to the issue of the rules themselves. The OECD makes a regulatory policy outlook. There, Sweden is below the EU average as a rule. So there is reason to be concerned. Let's look at what Sweden's entrepreneurs say – we ignore what foreign opinionators say. Eight out of ten say they reject the government's work on regulatory simplification. One in three says that only in the last year has it become more complicated due to government rules. 2 percent think it has become easier. The Minister mentions that a balance should be struck between what rules are needed and which can become a burden on businesses. However, I wonder whether the government is even aware of the impact of all the different legislative proposals or additional rules on companies. The government has received a lot of criticism for the lack of impact assessments. The government does not even send all the impact assessments to the Council, which is responsible for examining the impact assessments the government has made to see the impact on companies and entrepreneurship of various legislative proposals. The Department of Justice has not sent a single impact assessment to the Council. I am absolutely convinced that the Minister is certainly in control of his department, but all the rules must be added together to a total administrative burden. It is therefore important that all legislative proposals, all rules, should be assessed in impact assessments. Here, the Government and the Minister need to take overall responsibility for all the different proposals being assessed in an analysis of how they affect entrepreneurship in Sweden and then sent to the Council for review. I would therefore like to ask the Minister once again whether the government can really be pleased that eight out of ten entrepreneurs fail the government's work on simplification. Is the Minister pleased that not all impact assessments are sent to the Council of the Rules? Of the impact assessments sent to the Council, 80% are rejected.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-305	Mr President, I would like to The focus must be to provide the conditions for companies to grow, hire more and expand. I note that last year was something of a record year for small and medium-sized enterprises in Sweden. LRF Konsult's profitability barometer shows an increased profitability as measured by the profit before depreciation for the third consecutive year. This is the highest profitability in the five-year period under investigation. Business views on the future are also interesting. It continues to be strong. The figure is the highest since 2010: Seven out of ten small businesses see good conditions to grow. As regards the employment outlook of enterprises, one in four entrepreneurs states that they increased employment last year, and one in ten entrepreneurs has reduced staff. It is one of the reasons why 96 000 of the 150 000 new jobs created are created in the private sector in many of these companies. When we talk about the conditions for companies, we need to look at appropriate rules, how rules are applied and what knowledge companies have of the rules. One thing that really stands out in international comparisons, where Sweden has lost over the last ten years, is the digitalisation of the public sector. Eight of the ten years it was a bourgeois government. Now we've made a power collection. The government has introduced a system that allows authorities to work long-term with digitalisation. I find it difficult to see any other area that can simplify more for companies than moving to much more digital business management. It is about reporting, government contacts, quick response, the ability to make corrections after a while, that the systems after some time learn what types of issues and problems companies have so that it is possible to quickly get help and move forward. The work that the government has started with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council is unique. We have gathered the national level together with the local level to look at simplification via digitalisation. An industry that is really regular is the restaurant business. I can understand that the restaurant operators haven't noticed the work yet. The point is that later this year they will finish with large parts of the project. The goal is for half of all restaurant entrepreneurs later this year to have the opportunity to both start and partly run their businesses digitally in the municipalities involved in the project. Many municipalities are involved. It is not possible to fail to work with digitalisation to simplify the everyday life of companies in a systematic way. Last year we gave a directive to the Swedish Companies Registration Office to make it possible to submit annual reports digitally. I have said that after some time I want to move to binding legislation in this area so that it will be digital annual reports. When the data comes in digitally, we can ensure that the authorities have to interact and share data with each other. Then they do not have to call the companies down in the quartet and disturb them with a requirement to provide information. Now the data comes into one place. Then you know that this is the right information, and it can be disseminated between the authorities. Our focus is digitalisation. We believe that this is the easiest way to simplify the daily lives of businesses. Let me broaden the discussion a little. The biggest problem businesses have right now is the supply of skills, that is to get staff so that they can grow. It is also necessary to look at enterprise policy in a broader context, but we can come back to that in later interventions.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-313	Mr President, I would like to We can discuss what the reality is, but there are also studies that claim that a majority of companies perceive the regulatory burden as the biggest obstacle – nothing else. The government can, of course, beat itself to the chest. It's easy to do when you're in a good business cycle. But it is now that we have to make changes that will make companies cope with a worse business cycle. That is when regulatory costs and tax costs become so hugely apparent. When you hit your chest, remember that eight out of ten entrepreneurs fail the government's work on simplification. These are worrying figures. Digitalisation is, of course, a good thing, but I think we are in agreement here. A lot needs to be done there. The initiatives taken by the government are also agreed across the block border. But we are still lagging behind our neighbours – both Norway and Denmark are much further ahead in digitalisation. Here, then, we could make even greater efforts, and here I hope that the Minister will feel the support of moving forward much more quickly. But, as I said, the rule issue concerns all the rules. It is not only the rules that fit into the Precipitation Department in the Division of Government Offices, but it is actually all the rules that become a total administrative burden for companies. For construction companies, for example, it's about building rules ranging from what an apartment should look like and how big the bathroom should be to what the facade should look like and what decibel level you have to have during the construction. For hydroelectric power plants, it is about hundreds of environmental regulations that the County Administrative Board pursues them with. The hospitality industry, which the Minister mentions, still needs to seek permission to dance in a local, and dance is defined as moving to music. So you still need to apply for permission for this, even though the Riksdag has voted in favour of an announcement that you should remove the dance permit. The hospitality industry also needs to go through the menus to precisely follow the rules for which dishes must be on the menu to serve a beer. In fact, it's completely preposterous. One must therefore look at the overall regulatory burden. Many of the rules that we have today, whether or not you digitally disclose data, are totally unnecessary and represent only a cost to a company. It is not possible to talk about the conditions for entrepreneurs without also mentioning the other major burden, which is the tax burden. The government has just presented a spring bill with a bunch of different tax increases. It has announced everything from large tax increases on labour to 3:12 rules where the smallest companies are now to be subject to criminal sanctions and airline tax, kilometre tax, financial tax and increased petrol tax. For each of these proposals, there are certainly arguments that the Minister can draw, but together they constitute a tax burden that becomes another burden on companies. One can of course argue that Sweden is doing so well now, and we are in a good business cycle. But again, we need to think about a policy that works not only when the economic cycle is going well but also when it is going badly. How do these tax changes beat, and how does the regulatory burden beat? I just want to remind the Minister not to take Sweden's entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs for granted. It is actually a huge decision to dare to invest in an idea, invest all their private capital and perhaps put their apartment in pledge to start a business. But then it is also a question of driving forces. Then each entrepreneur makes a cost estimate: Is it profitable to run a business or not? The more regulatory constraints, the greater the tax burden imposed on entrepreneurs, the more entrepreneurs will say in that balance that setting up and running businesses is not worthwhile, and the more companies will not even be set up.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-326	Mr President, I would like to After all, the spring bill and the spring amending budget do not contain any tax changes. It can't do that. It is in the autumn budget that the government will present the tax proposals it makes, and we will have a discussion on that later. Looking at the Moderates' economic policy, one must consider what it would mean if, in this economic situation, the investment brake were to be put on and said: now we are withdrawing support for the construction of rental apartments. Now we are reducing the maintenance of the infrastructure. The plans that were in the budget that we took over, with an enormous underinvestment in education last term, which now means that we have about 100 000 job vacancies in the economy that are not added because we have the wrong level of education in the labour force, means that the Swedish economy cannot take its full potential in this economic situation. But if we do not solve the issue of skills, the issue of infrastructure, the construction of housing, but also, for example, the expansion of broadband in this economic situation, growth will slow down faster. To add some kind of investment brake at this point, I think, would be the wrong policy, and therefore I think that the Moderates are setting wrong priorities in their economic policy. In the case of small businesses, for example in the announcement for the autumn that we are talking about, the support will grow so that all one-man entrepreneurs who choose to hire their first, which is often not only the biggest psychological responsibility, but the first greater responsibility that entrepreneurs take for another person – it is a big step to take – receive a substantial discount during the first year, up to 63 000 SEK in a discount, for making a first job in their company. It is 300,000 equity and trading companies across the country that are affected by it – a huge opportunity for really small companies to take the first step up and grow. We have announced that we will present a proposal on employee options that will make it easier for start-ups in particular to recruit but also retain competent staff in the early stages of the company's development. We're working on shorter paydays right now. I have told the big companies that they have six months to come up with a voluntary agreement on some kind of code to pay bills on time. Today, unfortunately, SMEs are all too often used as banks by large companies – they are paid after perhaps 60, 90 or 120 days. This makes it incredibly difficult for small companies to be able to act. We have worked on funding issues and reformed state venture capital. We have also ensured that Almi and the Norrland Fund can work with larger lending, not least in cooperation with European funds, which has meant that Almi 2015 increased its lending by 40 percent and remains at a high level. This enables small and medium-sized enterprises to grow. We have worked with internationalisation and exports for small and medium-sized enterprises. We have developed an entire export strategy that focuses on emerging markets but also on making it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises to take a step forward in the export markets. The last is about the knowledge transfer, with 50 000 more training places this year. I want to say that is the biggest question I encounter among entrepreneurs around Sweden right now: their problems with and obstacles to finding the right staff in a situation where the Swedish economy is doing quite well but the risk is that we do not take advantage of that potential. Then education policy and the knowledge boost must be our most important growth policy measure in this economic situation.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-335	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that I think that many of the efforts that the Minister is now highlighting are worthy of heart. Many of them, too, we fully agree on. But to put this in proportion, look at how the measures together affect entrepreneurs: all the reliefs highlighted by the Minister represent only one tenth of the announced tax increases. So one step forward and ten steps back. It is quite easy to stand here and talk about measures that sound good, but you have to count on the total. How does this affect Sweden's entrepreneurs? If you raise the tax ten times as much as you do the relief, the relief will be quite small in proportion. I would also like to come back again to the fact that entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship are very much about driving forces. I mean, and we mean that it should always pay off to do the right thing. It should always pay to make an effort in Sweden. It should always pay to create jobs in Sweden. It should always pay to try, invest in an idea and start the company that might be the next Spotify, the next Skype or the next Ikea. We need more people who dare to take that step, not less, and the proportion of people who dare to take the step, dare to invest in an idea, dare to put houses and homes in pledges, dare to invest their entire private wealth in chasing after an idea, the proportion of people affected by the regulatory burden and the tax burden when they do the analysis: How well do I pay to make an effort in Sweden? How well does it pay to start a business in Sweden? When eight out of ten entrepreneurs fail the government's work on regulatory simplification and the government also imposes taxes on the same entrepreneur, I am concerned. I really hope the government reconsiders.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-340	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sofia Fölster, for this debate. It should be remembered that we took over a Sweden where we had large deficits in public finances. It was no coincidence; it was the previous government that had implemented a tax policy with large unfunded tax cuts that led to deficits. Now we've eaten it off. Now we come in a situation where we have made some tax adjustments that make Sweden in a situation where we can afford to make larger investments in housing construction, in infrastructure, in maintenance, in reinforced broadband expansion throughout the country but also in a substantial knowledge boost that gives tens of thousands more people the opportunity to get the education needed to take the vacant jobs we have in the Swedish economy. That is an important priority. Then there is another discussion about taxes, where the Moderates always have in some way a reverse distribution policy in their tax policies. Yes, we raise taxes for some of them with the absolute highest income in society, while at the same time lowering taxes for Sweden's pensioners. This is how you can conduct a tax policy in Sweden. When you were in power, you did the opposite. You reduced the tax on those who worked and had the highest income, especially men. Today, we have reversed this practice and reduced taxes, especially for those who have worked a full working life and earned a good pension. It's distribution policy– I know the Moderates don't talk about it very often. But it is also part of keeping Sweden together. Today, I will continue to work to make it easier and better to run companies in Sweden, to keep up demand in the economy, to ensure that we make the necessary investments and that more small and medium-sized enterprises dare to take the first decision to start growing and hiring one more and then also take the step out on the export markets. We need more growing companies in order to push back unemployment further.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-346	Mr President, I would like to Jörgen Warborn has asked me what I intend to do to improve the business environment so that companies like SAS AB remain active in Sweden. Companies throughout Sweden that create, grow and export are crucial for the government's job goals to be achieved. As I explained earlier in a parliamentary question from Jörgen Warborn, the government has during its term of office carried out several efforts that strengthen the conditions for entrepreneurship. Thanks to stable finances, we have been able to make important investments in infrastructure, research, housing and education. We conduct an active business policy with a focus on efforts that further improve the company's conditions and increase Sweden's attractiveness. Among other things, the government has restructured state venture capital in order to create better financing opportunities for companies in the development phase. Through a number of initiatives, the lending from Almi Företagspartner AB has been able to increase significantly in recent years. In 2015, Almi launched the growth loan to innovative companies, and lending increased by SEK 1 billion in 2015 compared to 2014. Almis lending also continued to increase in 2016. The government has launched an export strategy, which strengthens the opportunities to operate in a global market based on Sweden. We have also developed a strategy for smart industry, where the interaction between young, innovative companies and strong global companies is an important element, and presented a first action plan with 45 concrete measures to strengthen industrial development. To strengthen Swedish companies, we invest in collaboration programmes and test beds. We are also working to ensure that Sweden continues to be at the forefront when it comes to utilising the opportunities of digitalisation to simplify for companies, take advantage of business opportunities and make Sweden an attractive country to invest in. As regards SAS AB's decision to move parts of its business, we know that the European aviation industry generally has problems with pressured working conditions and unhealthy competition. This is an unsustainable situation, which needs to be resolved at European level and not by importing worse conditions into Sweden. But in a broader perspective we still see a trend break with increased investments and more companies that choose to move home production to Sweden. Recently, 700 new jobs were announced at the Volvo Cars factory in Torslanda and new establishment of the IT company Amazon. Technology companies also report that the Swedish technology groups had faster employment growth in Sweden than in the rest of the world in 2015. The Swedish economy is strong. Growth has stabilised at one of the highest levels in Europe. Since this government took office, 150 000 more people, including 96 000 in the private sector, have a job to go to, and unemployment has been pushed below 7%. Sweden ranks as the world's second most innovative economy, and according to Forbes, our business environment is the best in the world. We are all aware of the challenges and opportunities of global competition. The government will continue to work in a targeted manner to create the best possible conditions for Sweden to maintain its position as a leading innovation country and for companies throughout the country to choose to compete on the world market, but based in Sweden.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-356	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation for his answer. Many of the repetitions made by the Minister can be supported in some parts. But there is one area on this long list that the Minister completely excludes, and that is tax policy. That is a bit why I asked this question, which concerns SAS and also Nordea, which, with reference to the resolution fee, has said that they intend to perhaps leave Sweden. The government believes that an active economic policy is being pursued. Unfortunately, it seems to mean actively driving business out of the country. This is, of course, a major problem, and taxes play a significant role when companies decide where to place their production and investments. Trying to keep and attract businesses is something many countries strive for. Unfortunately, this does not seem to be the government's current approach, at least not if you look at tax policy. In the case of small businesses, the 3:12 rules are very crucial. This is often mentioned in the context of entrepreneurial taxation. The government's proposals in this area affect virtually all small businesses. The government wants to increase the tax rate for all the petty companies affected by the investigation. So it will be less economically profitable to take the risk of moving from a job to starting a business. This is very strange in a situation where we know that four out of five jobs are being created in small businesses. The government then chooses to put forward a proposal that hits small businesses and increases their taxes. We need a better business environment and more companies that can and want to hire. Companies should be estimated, not taxed. There is a competitiveness study, which has compared the competitiveness of the agricultural industry with that of other countries. For some reason, the directives for this investigation have chosen to say that it absolutely should not look at tax matters, but only at other issues. This is strange because the investigation itself finds that taxation is a factor which has a significant impact on the competitive situation. This is not just the case for farmers, but it is the choice to ignore the impact of the tax on competitiveness in very many cases. The Minister for Enterprise and Innovation mentioned the export strategy, and it is unfortunately completely exempt from a tax perspective; there is no reasoning on this. Nor was the Entrepreneurship investigation able to look at any tax proposals under its directives. The report of the Corporate Tax Committee, which was set up under the alliance government, has now been presented. In fact, it is proposed to reduce corporate tax. But that investigation has been buried by the government under all the reports that propose increased tax: air tax, kilometre tax, chemical tax, entrepreneurial tax, etc. I mentioned Nordea, who chose to announce that it might leave Sweden if the resolution fee becomes a reality. This welcomed the Minister for Finance. I hope that the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation does not welcome that decision. SAS, which is partly State owned, has also decided to do so. Then I wonder: when is the government going to see this tool, tax policy, as important for competitiveness?
i-9732fb8f414833eb-365	Mr President, I would like to If we start with SAS, which was the basis for this interpellation, I'm a little perplexed. What is the Moderates' line on taxes and charges for SAS, for example? Is there a healthy European competition in the aviation market today, where several companies round the terms and conditions and collective agreements, where low-cost airlines flying in from continents which completely dump prices make very few of the companies in Europe at all profitable and where conditions are under pressure on the market? Do the Moderates have an idea of this? Is it a good market? Is that fair competition? We can compare with the transport sector in Sweden. We have had the view that the sub-offer competition that has existed in the transport sector has led to a very large part of the haulage industry in Sweden being flagged out. It hasn't been fair competition. The rules that exist have not been complied with, and the rules have been unclear so that people have been able to use the systems. We have tried to tighten this up so that we also have fair competition. This is something that we Swedish people are pushing at European level. The aviation strategy includes that we, both in the EU and in ICAO, the International Civil Aviation Organisation, should pursue these issues of fair competition in the aviation sector, also to be sure that aviation safety is high. It would be exciting to hear whether the Moderates welcome this system in Europe. Do we have a good situation in the aviation industry in Europe? At some point we must also give answers on this issue.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-369	Mr President, I would like to This interpellation is about SAS, among other things. It is also about Nordea and several other companies that have chosen to move out. It is the overall migration that is the major problem. We Moderates see that we need to do something about the Business Tax Committee's report, which the government has been in doubt for quite some time now. What's going on there? It proposes, among other things, a reduction in corporate tax. It is one thing that affects all companies, even a company like SAS. The government's proposing a flight tax. That's the wrong way to go. It affects SAS, and not just SAS. The export strategy is clear: We want more direct lines to Sweden. I share that vision. I think it's very good. There are several assessors who believe that one of the most important factors when it comes to getting more head offices to Sweden is that we have good flight connections. In that case, the fact that the airline tax is used to extort routes from the country cannot be the right thing for SAS and not for other companies. As far as the haulage industry is concerned, the government is proposing a kilometre tax, or at least there is an argument about it – we will have to see if there will be any kilometre tax or not, but something similar seems to come in any case. My message and that of the Moderates is that companies will move to Sweden, not from Sweden. This requires an attractive business environment. We can look at the World Economic Forum's competition index. Sweden has taken positions there in general, and I welcome that. I think it is very good and gratifying. But in some areas we've fallen behind a lot. In the latest ranking Sweden lost 26 places and is now at the bottom, in place 120 among 138 countries, when it comes to taxes that stimulate to work. In this situation, the government has already increased taxes on entrepreneurship and jobs by 40 billion, and further increases of some 20 billion have been announced. This becomes particularly problematic for all those people who live in exclusion. The government's budget bill mentions 980 000 people living in exclusion. Many of them can come back to work on the right policies. But we know that four out of five jobs are being created in small businesses. To then increase taxation and make it more difficult and reduce the driving forces to work and entrepreneurship is quite the wrong way to go. Why does the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation not take the impression of the World Economic Forum's recommendations, which aim to review taxes and change the drivers of labour through taxes?
i-9732fb8f414833eb-378	Mr President, I would like to I note that the answer to the SAS question was that the Moderates had nothing to say about social dumping on this issue either. It is quite symptomatic that you never have anything to say about fair competition and fair conditions on the labour market in Sweden or in the aviation industry in Europe. That's why I chose to take note of what the interpellier wrote about SAS. We are pursuing a policy of fair conditions both here at home and in Europe. Is it then the case that companies move out on a massive scale from Sweden, or is it the case that investments into Sweden are increasing? Let's look at the statistics. Last month, the National Board of Trade reported that foreign direct investment continues to flow into Sverig by. In 2016, the flow increased from SEK 52 billion to SEK 168 billion. There are huge investments coming to Sweden. We have seen some examples of this in the media, whether it is data centres that are being established or industrial companies that choose to expand. The fact is that the industrial sector has not made such large investments since the financial crisis. Both international capital and the business community in Sweden seem to believe vastly more in Sweden's development than the Moderates do. We have moved away from a situation where we had very large deficits in the public sector, which created uncertainty about economic policy. The fact that we have now come to a situation of surplus in the public sector, where we can afford to make increased investments, is also one of the reasons why stability in the Swedish economy is valued even higher in international rankings. And there are few things that provide so much security when it comes to investment as that it is orderly in the state economy and that it is thus able to make increased investments. The proof of whether you are doing right or wrong in economic policy is in much of the way things are going and what the effect of the policy is. I can see that 150 000 more people go to work. 96,000 of them are in the private sector. In this context, it is also important to be able to keep society together. We were in on this in the previous interpellation debate. Yes, we have proposed some tax increases for those with the highest income in Sweden. They'll have to pay a little more. But we're cutting taxes on the pensioners who've worked a lifetime. We also lower the tax on entrepreneurs who choose to hire their first person. It is a targeted tax cut to just growing companies. If only a few tens of thousands of the 300 000 companies affected would dare to do their first job, it would have a major impact on employment and unemployment across Sweden. When working on tax policy, it is important to focus your efforts on what is most useful. I will not go so far into fiscal policy now because I only have 56 seconds left. However, it can be noted that the previous government spent a great deal of money on reducing employers' contributions for young people – SEK 16 billion a year. Today, this is what has been blown away in your parliamentary motions. Why? Because it didn't work. It cost a lot of money, but it didn't pay off. Now we have removed this and made sure to push back youth unemployment so that we have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 13 years. One must also dare to prioritise resources in the state economy and do what gives the most weight to the money.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-386	Mr President, I would like to When SAS announced its decision, it was said that the purpose was to reduce the costs of social security contributions and taxes. That SAS moves out or creates hubs elsewhere, in what way does it improve working conditions? I don't see it. The Minister then raised investments to Sweden. It is quite correct that investments come to Sweden, and that is very gratifying. But the outflow is still larger than the inflow. The fact that it is an inflow into a boom is very good. I'm sure we're both happy about it, and I hope the inflow continues. The government's policy in this area is to make some efforts, but at the same time it withdraws tenfold. What you bet is taken back ten times through tax increases. For me, every single entrepreneur is a hero. It is someone who believes in an idea, who develops it and through his power and commitment chooses to risk a great deal to create livelihood for himself and perhaps even for others. The work line starts in the companies. It is through entrepreneurship and through new and growing companies that more people get employment. More people get jobs, and more people can feel real security. This is where the dividing line goes in enterprise policy. Either you want to make things easier for businesses – you review regulations and regulations and you adjust taxes to increase the drive for entrepreneurship – or you put forward proposals that limit companies and make entrepreneurship more difficult. I think we need to speed up the pace, both in the regulatory simplification, which was in the last debate, and in changing the government's tax policy, which gives one crown but takes back ten. It can't work that way. Finally, I would like to thank you for the debate.
i-9732fb8f414833eb-392	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank you for the debate. I do not think this is our last debate on enterprise policy and employment policy. It should not be the last, at least, because it is an important issue. Sweden is in a good economic situation – that is true. What we now need to discuss in Sweden is: How do we maintain this growth rate? What is the risk of slowing down growth? Then I think that the Moderates' investment brake – with cuts in housing construction, maintenance in infrastructure and issues relating to how we will manage our international competitiveness in the long term, not least linked to internationalisation and export – is the wrong way to go. I think it is more important to invest in skills provision with a knowledge boost, which we have started and which means a lot to companies around Sweden. I think it is important that housing continues to be built at a high rate, continuously over many years. I believe that infrastructure – including broadband expansion – is essential for companies' ability to continue to expand. Then we also need a business policy that looks at finance, exports and the opportunity for companies to grow. This concerns the first phase, employee stock options, but also loan financing. It is also a question of payment times for companies. I want them to know they're getting paid in time for what they're doing. But I also want to say that the questions about investment promotion, about Testbed Sweden and about how we will meet the future with innovation and digitalisation are important issues, not only for the brand Sweden but also for the next generation of export successes. We will continue to work with this in the government, preferably in broad agreement, but then one must dare to pursue an economic policy that leads to surpluses, not deficits, and increased investment in the national economy.
