i-4e3b26a43b2d98d6-1	Mr President, I would like to Anette Åkesson has asked me what social problems I consider most urgent in Sweden today and in the future and whether I believe that profit limitations in welfare companies are a way to meet these challenges. In addition, Anette Åkesson has asked me whether I believe that the increased costs and investments of municipalities are a problem, and whether I believe that we politicians must act against the rising taxes. Combating inequality was one of the most important tasks for the government when we took office. It still is. Inequality causes society to drift apart. The biggest economic gap is between those who have a job and those who do not. The fact that more people are coming to work is therefore crucial. It is through a high employment rate, a well-functioning welfare and a redistributive common insurance system that a society can be created where more people can contribute. Welfare is important to smooth out differences in living conditions. We are now seeing the impact of the government's welfare billions – the historically largest single addition to the municipal sector ever. Today, 150 000 more people go to work than when the government took office. Long-term unemployment is lowest in the EU. Youth unemployment is at its lowest level since 2003. Thanks to a responsible economic policy, we are now seeing the growth of surpluses in public finances. We will continue to use them so that more police officers, more teachers and more in health care can be employed. The starting point for tax collection is that the money should go to community activities that benefit everyone. The government is therefore working on producing effective proposals that put an end to the pursuit of profit in the welfare sector. By limiting profits in welfare companies, tax funds are released that can be returned to the business. Tax money is to be used for what it is intended for. The government's influence over the local economy is limited by the principle of municipal self-determination. The municipalities themselves have the right to determine the tax rates and the budget, a right which is to some extent limited by the municipal law's requirement for good financial management. The local government sector as a whole, including the county councils, has shown a great deal of responsibility through good results over a long period of years, so I see today no reason for the government to intervene or put local government out of play. There is, of course, reason to remain vigilant about the development of the local government sector, both in terms of cost development and the average municipal tax rate.
i-4e3b26a43b2d98d6-6	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking the Minister for his reply. The vast majority, including me, probably share the view that increasing economic gaps are a social problem, that welfare is important, that it is crucial that more people get into work and that tax money should be used for what they are intended for. However, Magdalena Andersson draws some conclusions that only left-wing politicians can agree with. In addition, the government has presented, and continues to present, political proposals that are actively countering what the Minister for Finance says he wants to achieve. I don't think it's just me who's having trouble understanding it. Furthermore, I would like to question the fact that the government takes credit for the fact that Sweden is doing well now. The economic boom and the reforms of the Alliance are the reasons for this. On the contrary, in a few years' time we will be wondering how the Social Democrats and the Green Party could mismanage a boom in the way they are now doing. It presents an under-funded budget and does not plan to put anything in the barns for difficult times. That it would be a responsible economy is probably the Finance Minister relatively alone to think. The welfare billions are about 10 billion that enter the equalisation system only from 2021. The decision on how to allocate for 2017 was made by the Government on 20 December 2016, i.e. with eleven days ahead. EUR 7 billion will be allocated on the basis of the number of asylum seekers as of 30 November and the total refugee return between 2012 and 2016. The extent to which that distribution key meets correctly may be determined by future audits. In fact, however, it can be said that the 10 billion in principle covers the erosion of state subsidies made in recent years because general state subsidies are not listed in line with wages and prices. In view of the extremely short forecast, the question is what expectations you can have about how effectively this money will be spent. In addition, the government tells us in different contexts about all this money should be sufficient. In practice, the remaining 3 billion will be used, for example, to develop welfare based on local needs, to hire more people and to strengthen care, school and care. The increased employer's contributions will be compensated, the increased sickness costs and LSS costs will be financed, and the money will also be used to improve the working environment. That is just what I have noted. There is certainly more to be done with money that cannot really be said to have been added. Although the starting point is that tax money should go to community activities that benefit everyone and that tax money should be used for what they are intended for, I wonder how it is achieved by limiting the benefits of welfare. Some things strike me when I read Ilmar Reepalus's welfare investigation. First, it is noted that quality is considered equivalent in private and public-run activities – some parts are better here, and other parts are better there. Then it is shown that companies in the welfare sector are making a profit, even if they had to look for a while to find a key figure that was dramatic enough. It then concludes that companies should be stopped from making profits. How did they land there? If private companies deliver equivalent services and products of the same quality as municipalities and county councils at a lower cost, why is the natural question not: Why are the costs of municipalities and county councils higher in order to deliver corresponding products and services? How can the social problem of social democrats, environmentalists and left-wing parties be that companies make profits? That is why I wonder: why is the question that we are discussing here what municipalities and county councils can do differently?
i-4e3b26a43b2d98d6-15	Mr President, I would like to What questions we are discussing here depend on what questions Anette Åkesson has asked in the interpellation. I'm trying to answer them to the best of my ability. As far as public finances are concerned, I would like to point out to Anette Åkesson that, according to the most recent estimates, we had a very large surplus last year of SEK 40 billion. This means that, after this government has been responsible for the country's economy for two years, we have been delivering a surplus in public finances for two years – unlike when Anette Åkesson's Moderates ruled at the Ministry of Finance, when there was a deficit in public finances throughout the last term of office. Now Anette Åkesson will say that it was due to the financial crisis, and that is quite correct – but it took place during the previous parliamentary term. It is very difficult to explain why deficits were allowed to continue to increase in 2013 and 2014 even though the economy then grew. Although they were back in a better economy, they chose to reduce the tax unfunded and allow deficits to continue to grow, which meant that when we took over, we had the biggest public finance deficits since the budgetary consolidation of the 1990s. They were considerably larger than during the financial crisis itself. It is an irresponsible way of conducting fiscal policy, and that is why the government has changed this. We also see the effect of government policy. As far as municipal activities are concerned, it is of course important that they are carried out with high quality regardless of who they are. Of course, there is every reason to ensure that the activities carried out by local authorities are developed so that they get better quality and we get more for the tax money we have. However, it is important that we protect the municipal sector, and this government has indeed done so by providing a total of nearly 30 billion to the municipal activities over just two years. It contrasts with how the Moderates have driven economic policy, which instead tends to focus on reducing tax. As far as the 10 billion that the municipalities receive is concerned, there was a preliminary distribution already in the spring of last year, and the municipalities were thus able to plan the economy. Then, quite correctly, a final adjustment was made in December so that the municipalities would then receive compensation on the basis of the number of refugees actually received. It is important for the government here that we ensure that the municipalities that have received many new arrivals and asylum seekers also have good opportunities to continue their welfare activities with high quality.
i-4e3b26a43b2d98d6-20	Mr President, I would like to It is true that there is a surplus in Sweden's economy, but it is thanks to the Alliance's reforms – and not least the boom. During the previous term of office, the Second Government of the Alliance suffered a huge recession; in connection with the financial crisis, the whole world suffered a recession. Now we're on a boom. What the Alliance's reforms further contributed was precisely that the municipalities and county councils received higher tax revenues directly. So they did not have to receive state subsidies, and that was very positive. However, the questions we are going to debate here are those raised in the interpellation, and one of the questions was what social problems the Minister of Finance considers to be most urgent. Since the government works a lot with profit limitation, it seems to be a matter of concern to the government. According to forecasts from the Swedish Municipalities and County Council, the costs of municipalities will increase more than the tax base in the coming years. In addition, it is invested as never before, and the local government sector, according to Kommuninvest's debt burden, increased by a record 10 per cent in 2015, to SEK 550 billion. This is linked, among other things, to the increased population and therefore necessary construction of housing, new schools, preschools and retirement homes, but also to the need to renovate or rebuild baths and water and sewage investments from the 1970s. At present we have low interest rates, but what happens when they rise? Kommuninvest believes that the loans will double to unimaginable 1,000 billion within ten years. Then population development will also be a challenge – the large hill of 60s is starting to retire, and the equally large hill of 40s is coming up at an age when more people need help and medical care. If we have not succeeded in integrating new Swedes, the challenge will be even tougher. In addition, the question arises as to whether we will succeed in replacing the jobs that disappear as a result of automation and digitalisation in the coming years. Municipal self-government is often a good way to deal with problems locally, where you are closest and know your own situation best, but for Sweden overall it looks very different in the municipalities depending on size, what the labour market looks like and so on. So there are very many concrete societal challenges that we need to address, and so there is a certain irony in the government spending time and resources to push the issue of profit limitation in welfare. All the good forces will be needed, not least those who might contribute to a new approach in the welfare sector. Municipalities will face the challenge of reviewing both their costs and revenues. The former, i.e. what is governed by the public commitment, is partly determined from here in Stockholm, but it is also governed by the expectations of the inhabitants and previous municipal decisions – not least regarding investments. Revenues consist of contributions but mostly of income taxes. There was an interesting move from LO the other week: it is believed that we politicians must act against the rising taxes. I can agree with that. The tax burden does not only consist of municipal income taxes, but the list of different taxes is long. The government has so far raised taxes by unimaginable 50 billion. This corresponds in the order of magnitude to the Swedish defence, and more will come. So far this year, we have seen a limited list of stratum limits for government income tax, which directly leads to a substantial increase in marginal tax rates. We have seen air tax, changes to the 3:12 rules and increased income tax for foreign Swedes. Today, information was received on a vehicle tax that is being increased. Then I've only mentioned a few. According to the current situation, what does Magdalena Andersson intend to do to meet LO and – contrary to what she has done so far – start reducing the tax burden?
i-4e3b26a43b2d98d6-28	Mr President, I would like to I'll try to answer Anette Åkesson's questions. Anette Åkesson claims that it is thanks to the Alliance that we have surpluses in public finances. That's a fantastic statement. At the same time, she is angry that we have increased the tax, which has, of course, strengthened public finances. This means that the increased taxes are also due to the Alliance, right? The truth is that the deficits increased every year that the Alliance and Anette Åkesson Party ruled at the Ministry of Finance. Since I've been in charge, we've had surpluses. If it is the case that my surplus is thanks to the Alliance and the Moderates, one can draw a conclusion: The Moderates rule best when they are not in the Ministry of Finance, because that is when there will be surplus. When it comes to LO and taxes, LO believes that capital taxes should be increased, and it is possible that Anette Åkesson would like to see increased capital taxes. That is what has been LO's point of view. Anette Åkesson says that municipalities and county councils received higher tax revenues during the Alliance. That is quite correct. This was due to the fact that the municipalities increased the tax. What the Moderates did at the Ministry of Finance was to reduce the tax but not to support municipalities and county councils as needed, and therefore the average municipal tax rates were increased while the Alliance was in the government. That is why tax revenues increased. Anette Åkesson wonders what is the government's most important question, and I answered that. This is inequality, and that is why we are working urgently to increase equality and reduce inequalities in society. That's why we make sure that more people get into work, and that's why we make sure to strengthen welfare so that all children have a really good upbringing in a good school and all older people have a safe elderly care. That is why we are ensuring that taxes are increased for those who have higher incomes and instead propose lower taxes for pensioners. That is also why we remove the precipice of health insurance and support single parents – not least mothers. We entered the Ministry of Finance in a situation where there were 60 billion in deficit while we had large breaks in welfare. Then we had to deal with the situation, which we did. We took hold of the areas where costs ran out, such as the cost of unaccompanied children and young people, and we took hold of health insurance. In this way, we have reduced spending and made clean savings. We have increased the intensity of the pursuit of those who are tax frauds in order to obtain more tax revenue. We've also raised the tax. After 140 billion in tax cuts and 60 billion in deficits, it has been necessary to increase tax revenues, and we have done so. We now see the result: we see a surplus in public finances. We see 150 000 more people going to work every day. We have increased the grants to municipalities and county councils by 30 billion. We have also made important efforts to reduce economic inequalities through tax and insurance systems.
i-4e3b26a43b2d98d6-35	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Finance again forgets the economic situation, which plays a role in addition to the reforms carried out by the Alliance, for example. The fact that the Social Democrats and the Green Party believe that the reforms of the Alliance have contributed with positive effects is demonstrated not least by maintaining the job tax deductions. The fact that the government is raising taxes that increase the costs for businesses and citizens, thereby damaging jobs, while putting a wet blanket over the welfare sector by allowing proposals to limit profits to hang in the air must be some kind of sad record in abused government power. It is not known what revenue taxes will give, if any, or what consequences many of the measures will have. The threat of profit caps alone can also have negative consequences. At the same time, Sweden is definitely facing challenges. The security situation and the global economic cycle are both uncertain. Nationally, we need to work hard with integration and with a better school. So there are many concrete problems to focus on instead of giving in to the radical demands of the extreme left. The labour market will probably be more affected by digitalisation and automation than we expect today, while for many years we have been aware of the population development and the greater demands it will impose on municipalities and county councils. The fact that in this situation the Social Democrats and the Green Party choose not only to ignore these challenges but even to impair the ability for us to cope with them is irresponsible, not least to those who will depend on future welfare.
i-4e3b26a43b2d98d6-41	Mr President, I would like to What I'm trying to say to Anette Åkesson is that it can't be argued that the surpluses in public finances are only due to the Alliance and at the same time be angry at the tax increases. This is what we have done-- we have taken care of, and cleaned up, what you left behind. For the third time out of three possible, Moderates and other bourgeois parties left the Ministry of Finance with large deficits, and for the third time out of three possible, Social Democratic finance ministers have cleared up the state finances and ensured that we have stable funding for welfare. It is no coincidence that it is always Social Democrats who do that job. If you care about welfare; if you think it's important that our older people have a safe everyday life; if you think it's important that children can go to school; if you care that we have a working health insurance – then you also make sure that welfare has secure funding. That's when you care about public finances. When you care about welfare, you also care about public finances, and that is why social democrats always take care of public finances. History has shown this, and we have shown it once again. We also know that when Moderates are at the Ministry of Finance, large deficits are created. That is what the history of Sweden looks like, and that is no coincidence. Let's say something about welfare gains-- let's talk about school. There is no other modern country that has allowed the market and profit interest in the school in the way we have done in Sweden. It has been naive, and it has not had the effects that were intended. There is a reason why other countries are not doing this. There is a reason why the Conservative Party in Great Britain comes to Sweden and says: This is never how we should do it! It's driving the school the wrong way. Having private profit interests in school is heading in the wrong direction. The only foreign observer who seems to think this is a good system is the Trump administration. It is the Trump administration and the Moderates who want it this way, and it does not work well.
i-4e3b26a43b2d98d6-48	Mr President, I would like to Larry Söder has asked me, on the one hand, whether I am going to take any legislative initiatives or take any other general action in response to the Supreme Administrative Court's ruling, and, on the other hand, whether I intend to set up an investigation into rules on personal liability and why this has delayed, despite Parliament's decision on urgent handling. As regards the question of an investigation into representative responsibility, I have relatively recently answered a couple of interpellations, including one from Larry Söder. I replied then that the Swedish Tax Agency, on behalf of the government, has particularly highlighted a few questions. It concerns the application of the possibility of granting a so-called creditor's period of grace, thereby giving the company a period beyond the normal due date of the tax and the way in which the authority takes into account the rules on total or partial relief from the liability of the representative. I also replied that the Swedish Tax Agency's report on the assignment is part of the basis for the Government's continued work in response to the Parliament's request for a review. Of course, as I have also said in other contexts, we will follow the announcement of the Riksdag. However, the Swedish Tax Agency's report has nuanced the picture of the criticism that has been made of the regulations. The need for further action should therefore be further considered before any final position on the matter can be taken.
i-4e3b26a43b2d98d6-52	Mr President, I would like to Representative responsibility is an important issue for me, because I believe that four out of five new jobs are being created in small businesses. These are severely affected when the rules are too rigid and rigid. For tough and complicated rules means fewer new jobs. In my interpellation, I report on a case where a person becomes liable for payment, even though the person in question has not known about the fraud in the company. This is just one of many cases that we have been able to read about in the last six months. There are many cases where companies or people get into trouble and where companies are closing down due to the fact that the agency's assessment is too harsh. The consequence is in many cases that you shut down a company that might work for many years to come if you could have a slightly more open view of the situation. At the same time as the cat agency make sure that they close the book as soon as possible and take what they should have, the other creditors remain on the platform and wonder what really happened. The other creditors, who have a claim and who have supplied goods to the company, now see their relationship with the company – as they saw in the long term – being abruptly terminated. The Christian Democrats have long criticised the provisions on the so-called "representative responsibility" in the Tax Procedure Act. These provisions mean that an entrepreneur may become personally liable for the payment of the company's taxes and charges if the person does not ensure that the company has paid them by the due date. For other liabilities in a limited liability company there is no personal liability for the representatives, which means that the Tax Agency has a special position among the creditors. The special regulation of the Tax Procedure Act, which is currently very strictly applied by the Tax Agency and the courts, creates a great deal of legal uncertainty for entrepreneurs. As a board member, you can be completely unaware of the company's payment problems and also have the bad luck of being the one who happens to have money to pay the debt with. When the Swedish Tax Agency applies for a board member to pay the company's tax debts, the courts say yes in 99 per cent of the cases, which I cannot interpret otherwise than that the court's decision is a transport route – if the Swedish Tax Agency has decided to do so. The Parliament issued an announcement regarding representative responsibility on 22 April 2015. No, it's not a clerical error – it's supposed to be April 22, 2015. Despite the extenuating wording of the Minister of Finance concerning, among other things, the basis for preparation, two years is an extremely long time. The least one could ask is for the Minister to give a date when this is expected to land on Parliament's table for decision. It is worth considering whether the Minister believes that the responsibility and how it is applied today is a problem. It can also be considered whether the Minister shares Parliament's view that the rules on representative responsibility need to be reviewed.
i-4e3b26a43b2d98d6-61	Mr President, I would like to There is a reason why we have rules on representative liability. Other countries also have similar rules, although they do not have exactly the same rules as Sweden. Basically, it is about entrepreneurs not being able to run companies in the long run by not paying their taxes. This applies even if the company no longer has a life force. This is important in order for competition to be good for the other companies that pay their taxes as they should. This is a way to create a level playing field for the companies that pay taxes in the way you should. It is of course important that the Swedish Tax Agency uses this legislation in a balanced way. There are possibilities for deferment and for total or partial relief from the liability of the representative. For example, the possibility of deferment can be obtained if the Swedish Tax Agency considers that this is a temporary liquidity crisis and that the company is viable in the long term. Larry Söder mentioned that courts often judge in favour of the IRS. It can be interpreted in different ways. It could also be interpreted as meaning that the Swedish Tax Agency only pursues cases when it is very clear that it has not fulfilled its obligations, because it is the time for the representative responsibility to fall in, and that the Swedish Tax Agency gives notice in very many other cases. I don't know how to interpret Larry Söder. An alternative would, of course, be for the Swedish Tax Agency to bring more cases to court. Is that what Larry Söder thinks the IRS would do? I cannot, of course, interfere with how the Tax Agency acts, because it would be ministerial government. It would be interesting to hear Larry Söder's reasoning. If he thinks it is a problem that the Tax Agency wins too often in the court, it naturally means that the Tax Agency would push more cases to court. Is this what Lary Söder means, or should I interpret it differently?
i-4e3b26a43b2d98d6-67	Mr President, I would like to It is quite exciting that you can make a speech for four minutes and not even answer one of my three questions, which I expect the Minister to do in the next speech. You can always discuss who is in charge or who best sees whether a company is viable or not. There are quite a few examples of companies that have been running for quite a few years and that have suffered from a crisis that makes it impossible to pay their taxes at the right time. It may have quite a few creditors who see the potential of the company and are willing to provide longer credits. But the tax authorities don't do it, they hit the club, and then the gate is closed. I believe that in many cases it is the entrepreneurs who see the potential. Actually, it's their money that's being invested. I naturally share the Minister's view that in some cases companies are being run far too far. In these cases, the tax authorities will of course collect the taxes due. I would like to return to my questions to the Minister. It seems that the Minister does not think that the representation of responsibility is a problem and that it is interpreted too harshly when 99% of the cases that go to court go through. In what other context does a party get the right in 99% of cases? In the vast majority of cases, municipalities and county councils that often run their cases in court are not entitled to 99 per cent of the cases. It would be strange if the IRS always did the right interpretation. I believe that the Swedish Tax Agency should be right to some extent and should make a rather harsh assessment. I understand that the Minister cannot go into the actions of the IRS, so I leave that part. The Parliament made an announcement on 22 April 2015, which is almost two years ago. Should it take two more years for the Minister to decide how this will work out and come back with a response to the Riksdag table? Or is it the case that the Minister does not actually share Parliament's view that this needs to be reviewed, but tries to prolong it for as long as possible? I would like the Minister to give me a date or at least a time horizon when the Minister thinks that this should come back to Parliament's table.
i-4e3b26a43b2d98d6-73	Mr President, I would like to I'm still a little stunned at the 99%. If Larry Söder thinks it's a problem that the Tax Agency only drives cases to court where the Tax Agency gets it right, then I can only see two reasons for that. One is that the Swedish Tax Agency is pushing too few and only really safe cases to court and that the Swedish Tax Agency would take more uncertain cases to court, i.e. that the Swedish Tax Agency would have a harder application than it has today. The second is that the courts do not interpret the law correctly but judge wrong. It is a rather serious accusation against the Swedish courts. This is an issue that Larry Söder will raise with Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson, who is responsible for the judiciary. But it is a very serious accusation by a Member of Parliament against the Swedish judiciary. I would like to hear whether Larry Söder believes that the Swedish Tax Agency should run more uncertain cases, that it has been too mild in its handling here and should push more cases to court, if the courts judge incorrectly or if there is something else Larry Söder means. I find it hard to understand otherwise. As far as the government's handling of the matter is concerned, when we received the announcement, we gave a commission to the Swedish Tax Agency to explain how they apply the rules. We have received the answer and are preparing it now in the Government Office. But in the answer, it is obvious that it is not black or white, but rather rather complex questions. Responsibilities are also a means of protecting companies that carry out an activity and pay taxes as they should against companies where there may be people who engage in organised crime, for example. Responsibilities are an important instrument for the Swedish Tax Agency to combat financial crime. Then there are certainly many who end up in representative responsibility and who do not engage in financial crime – I do not want to say anything else, because of course there are many who do not. However, it is an important tool for combating economic crime and companies that do not pay taxes in order for them to be able to drive companies further and thus have unfair competition against companies that are doing the right thing.
i-4e3b26a43b2d98d6-80	Mr President, I would like to I note that in the second speech the Minister did not answer any of my three questions, which I repeat and hope she will be able to respond to in her last speech. I believe that representative responsibility is being used too hard in Sweden and that more companies have to close down because of this. We are losing a number of jobs that would otherwise arise, and some companies that supply goods to these companies lose their income because the tax authorities make the harsh assessment they make. Yes, I believe that the tax authorities are making too strict an assessment of representative responsibility and that we need to bring about a change in this at Parliament's table. The majority of Parliament also thinks so. Therefore, I repeat my questions and think it reasonable that the Minister should at least respond to one of the three questions. Otherwise, I think it is quite pointless to have this debate. When, in the Minister's view, can this come to Parliament's table? The announcement was made on 22 April 2015, i.e. almost two years ago. It cannot be possible for us to have to wait so much longer than that. The Minister should in any case be able to indicate a time horizon for when we can get an answer to the Parliament's table. I still have no answer to whether the Minister does not believe that the responsibility of the representative and how it is applied in Sweden today is a problem. Does the Minister not share the Parliament's view that representative responsibility needs to be reviewed? I think I have three quite simple questions and that I should reasonably get answers to one of them.
i-4e3b26a43b2d98d6-87	Mr President, I would like to I think I have to apologize, Larry Söder, if I didn't answer the questions properly. I was so tremendously surprised that Larry Söder believes the IRS is going to take more cases like this to court. I think I'd have thought Larry Söder would think the other way around. But it is an interesting angle on the question that more cases of representative liability should be tried in court. It is difficult to interpret Larry Söder in any other way than that the Tax Agency operates too few cases and should push more uncertain cases to court. When are we gonna get back to you? It is not that the government has not done anything during this time, but we have given the Swedish Tax Agency a mission. They've come up with an answer. But the answer complicates this question in such a way that we need to prepare it further before we can come back to how to review the rules. Is representative responsibility a problem? It is also a complicated question to answer. If there was no representative responsibility, that would also be a problem. That would be a problem for many companies that carry on a business seriously and pay taxes as they should. Responsibilities are also a means of protecting those companies that are trying to do the right thing and pay all taxes exactly as they should. For example, it protects them against companies that are rogue and do not pay their taxes, but it also protects society against serious, organised, financial crime. These are important rules to have, but of course a good application of them is needed at the Swedish Tax Agency. Of course, we will look at the issue in the near future.
