i-3TrV28gUT1dBALGvuwLhC6	Mr President, I would like to Members of Parliament! The Alliance parties The Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats propose as First Vice-President of Parliament Ewa Thalén Finné.
i-1989b43a840098c9-0	Mr President, I would like to A few weeks ago I received a letter from Johanna Zetterström. Her son Hugo had cancer when he was four years old. Now he is seven years old; he has undergone several operations, and many remain. Johanna writes: At the hospital you will be met by an eminent and knowledgeable staff who take good care of you and your child. The evening is coming, and your child will again be showered and scrubbed to kill the few bacteria and living skin cells that are left. Put on some hospital clothes. When darkness comes, you will shoulder the fears of your now seven - year - old child for what is to come. But it won't happen. The doctor says with weight and shame in the body that it is stopped. Stop for more surgeries today. Again. Cause? Well, there's a shortage of staff. It is a strong letter, and it is an angry letter — rightly so. Underfunded care eventually becomes inhuman. It takes joint investment for us to be there for each other at difficult times. For me, that's the sign of community. Therefore, municipalities and county councils have received almost SEK 35 billion since 2014 in increased resources, so next year the government will make the biggest investment in health care in modern times. We invest not least in education. We provide resources to enable nurses to train as specialist nurses while maintaining their salary. The shortage of personnel must be removed. The working conditions and wages should be improved. There should be enough well-trained professionals so that operations are not cancelled over and over again. Severely ill people and their relatives are faced with one of the most difficult moments of life, and then the answer cannot be that instead of health care, we give priority to huge tax cuts. No, for me health care and welfare always go ahead.
i-1989b43a840098c9-5	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish economy is strong. First of all, it is thanks to all the hard-working women and men and successful entrepreneurs. However, it is also because the government has tightened its fiscal policy. We have given great priority, we have changed refugee policy and we have turned the large bourgeois deficit into growing surpluses. Government debt is now the lowest since 1977. 200 000 more people go to work, and next year we will have the lowest dependency on our common insurance systems in more than 35 years. We have created a great economic space, and now the battle is: What is it to be used for? It goes without saying to me: it should be used to increase the security of our country. Queues in health care should be shortened. Care for our children and the elderly is to be safeguarded. All schools should be good schools. The strong economy should benefit everyone, not just those who earn the most. The economy of families with children improves with increased child benefits, and the unfair tax gap between pensioners and wage earners is eliminated – it is indecent. It is time now to deliver security to Sweden's children and their parents, to the elderly and their relatives. In order to increase security, we are now also working hard against crime and crime. It is totally unacceptable that rape investigations are being piled up, that shootings and deadly violence are increasing, that people who come home by bus or train are afraid to walk through their own centre. Anyone who commits a crime should be punished. Society should react harder and faster. That is why the government has also contributed more resources to the police. There are almost twice as many police officers who are starting an education now compared to when we took office. More people can be hired, and next year the biggest effort will be made on the police in the 21st century. We also tighten the penalties so that whoever walks around with guns gets locked up right away. We'll make it easier for the police to monitor. Gang leaders should not sit in luxury cars; they should be in prison. But most effective in the long term is, of course, to prevent crime from emerging at all. Hopelessness must be replaced by faith in the future, and that is the most important job. Everyone who can work is going to work. This is how segregation should be broken – not by breaking the Swedish model, cutting down on welfare, lowering wages and creating low-wage sectors. People who come here will adapt to the Swedish labour market, not the other way around. If you're young, you're supposed to be educated. If you have professional experience with you, you should learn Swedish and quickly get into the profession. If you are older without experience, it is of course jobs that require lower qualifications that apply. We are now increasing the demand to make themselves employable. We're putting in place a training obligation. We do it because we know that when more people work, we can strengthen welfare and improve it. And, moreover, with your own income comes also freedom. Mr President, I would like to We have changed the direction of politics because we are going to increase security in Sweden. There is much work left to be done, and then the choice for me is simple: I will never accept cuts to prioritise reduced taxes. For me, more police officers and more nurses are more important. Nor will I accept politicians lowering salaries in the Swedish labour market. I stand up for the Swedish model. It'll pay off to work. Everyone's going to work. But when you work, you should also be able to live on your salary. That's how we build freedom. That's how we build security in a new age.
i-1989b43a840098c9-13	Mr President, I would like to In a year's time there will be elections in Sweden, and I think that until then we must be able to keep two thoughts in our heads at the same time. Firstly, there are such things in our country that are so good that it must not just be destroyed: trust in people you do not already know, equality between men and women, equality between people, despite different backgrounds and income. This is part of what makes Sweden so Swedish. There are also things that are really bad in Sweden: exclusion, gang crime, care queues, the growing distrust. It is easy to take all that is good for granted. And it is just as easy to face the difficult problems, look for scapegoats and find simple solutions. But resignation has never saved anyone or anything. We don't usually think that way in Sweden either, when we face difficult problems. On the contrary, we are talking seriously about problems. We investigate and turn and turn. Sometimes it lands in 113 proposals written by Lindbeck Assar, and we implement them. Or it lands in a completely new pension system when the old one had broken. We are constructive, we are looking for solutions – it is Swedish politics at its best. Therefore, in this spirit, let me mention something that will affect Sweden's fate in the coming decades, at least. Mr President, I would like to Today's globalisation is no longer just about goods and services, not just about imports and exports, but at least as much about people, knowledge and ideas. Migration in the world will have a fundamental impact on the economy and society, but migration is not black or white. It can be promising but is often associated with problems. It may be forced but is often voluntary. It can make life materially better but often socially worse. It can increase equality globally but just as often increase inequality nationally. For me, there is no contradiction between national belongings and international openness. You can, like me, be a foreigner, Swedish and European at the same time. The security of Swedish identity is important, and it is also important for integration. Those who are new don't have to like everything we stand for, but you have to meet a Sweden that dares to stand up for its own ideals. Mr President, I would like to Just as William Swing of the United Nations Migration Agency IOM pointed out during his Swedish visit the other day, migration in the world will increase in the future, not decrease. Climate change means that people have to move because the conditions for living are no longer there. War and oppression make the world's refugees more numerous than ever: 65 million currently, according to the UNHCR. Access to money, information, communication and transport means that more and more people are going to countries where it is hoped that children will be better off. That's how people have done it all the time, but many more do it right now. Faced with this new situation, we have never equipped Sweden. The migration policy of recent decades has been ill-considered and unprincipled. It has never taken a position on the difficult questions of what is our responsibility for the world, which we shall take fully, or on the question of what Sweden needs or can handle. Instead, it has become what it is. That is an unserious approach to difficult issues. In the autumn of 2015, the government also realised that Sweden had to change course, and within a few weeks a 180-degree turn of course was carried out, which lacks equivalent in modern Swedish political history. But now the time for sharp throws must be over. We politicians today have a responsibility to create long-term and sustainable rules for migration. I would therefore like to see long-term and cross-block agreements in Swedish policies in areas that need to be maintained over a long period of time. I want the Alliance and the Social Democrats to jointly take responsibility for an open and realistic Swedish migration policy. We are, of course, prepared to give and take to get there. But let me mention four concrete starting points for the Moderates in such a discussion. Firstly, Sweden cannot have a fundamentally different migration policy from the other countries in Europe. The principles behind the present law should therefore be established. It is a matter of temporary residence permits as a general rule and of tightening up the supply requirements for family migrants. Secondly, there must be a difference between 'yes' and 'no' when it comes to asylum. In five years, 50,000 people will go underground in Sweden. Brand new shadow societies fatten alienation, crime and social problems that Sweden has not seen in decades. So whoever gets no is leaving the country. Sweden must stand up for its own legislation. Thirdly, European migration policy can only be resolved in Europe, but the government's unwillingness to formulate a clear Swedish position in the EU is ominous. Today's system is brutal and unfair. So far this year 3 000 people have drowned or are missing in the Mediterranean. This has to stop. Instead, the EU should develop a system of quota refugees, where asylum testing takes place at the EU border, and Sweden should push for this to become the EU's common policy. International problems require international solutions. This applies to environmental policy and the issue of migration. Fourthly, Swedish companies operate in international markets and must be able to recruit skills from all over the world. Today we literally throw out highly educated immigrants who work and earn their living here in Sweden. It's a headless policy. Mr President, I would like to I am convinced that a long-term and well-thought-out migration policy is not only necessary; it is part of Sweden's continued competitiveness in international contexts. I am not locked up in details or details, but the Moderates are convinced that these issues must be dealt with and debated with respect both for those who come here and for all those who have lived for generations in our country. Sweden has been part of the successful internationalisation before. We can and we have to be one more time.
i-1989b43a840098c9-30	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is doing well, it is said. The economy is booming. Anything else would be quite strange given that we are actually in the midst of a booming boom. Yet, I believe, there is cause for concern about the future. The government is burning the finances with the fattest whale freckles in a situation where perhaps more should be collected in the barns. That's not a good sign. The low interest rates show that something is seriously wrong. What do we have left to do when, in a few years' time, the economic cycle turns downwards if both fiscal policy and the debt weapon have to be used now, in the midst of a booming boom? There is reason, Mr President, to look with concern at the future. And then there's the jobs. If you listen to Stefan Löfven and the government, they have done an amazing job in combating unemployment. Unemployment is record low, employment is the highest in the EU and so on. This is indeed one side of the coin. It is not often I quote Fredrik Reinfeldt, but already five years ago he said this: a look at ethnic Swedes in the middle of life, we have very low unemployment. That's about the way it still looks. The employment gap between native and foreign born has continued to grow, and that is precisely what is the big ticking bomb in the face of an impending recession. In fact, none of what the government promised in the electoral movement and then launched has worked in this area. Trainee jobs, extra services, standby jobs, fast track – the result, Mr President, is extremely meagre. Stefan Lövven's promise of the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020 is increasingly distant. It's even the case that we're slipping down to the top of the list. If you are seriously ill, there is also an imminent risk of getting stuck in a growing care queue. If you are pregnant, there is an imminent risk of having your baby in the car on your way to BB. If you become a victim of rape, there is a great risk that your case will be added to the pile of other unsolicited crime. Rape against children is being piled up and not investigated in Sweden in 2017. Every tenth young Swedish girl is subjected to sexual crimes every year. The No-go zones are getting more. Mafia-like clans put terror in entire cities. The number of shootings is in parallel with the mafia-controlled areas in southern Italy. The use of hand grenades is in parallel with Mexico. Cemetery staff must attend training courses on how to handle armed gangs. Car fires and riots have become commonplace. No, Sweden is not only doing well. Then the question is: What has gone wrong? The basic problem, I think, is that the government parties and other parties in this House took far too long to understand that they were pursuing an unsustainable and irresponsible policy. For far too long, open-heart politics was allowed to prevail, while much of its power was devoted to slandering those who warned. How any one person in this country is prepared to give the rest of the parties in this Assembly new confidence for another four years is completely incomprehensible to me. Now there are barely eleven months left before the elections. Welfare, security and, not least, cohesion – our ability to restore trust and solidarity – are at the heart of the issue. The voters in Sweden must ask themselves who they trust. Has confidence continued in those who have created the problems and who, moreover, have failed miserably in any attempt to solve them? Or do they put their faith in those who early saw the dangers, warned against them, and also offer solutions that have not already been tried and failed? I hope, Mr President, that the mismanagement we have seen in recent years will have the necessary effect on the election results next year.
i-1989b43a840098c9-41	Mr President, I would like to The plastic in the sea, the wounds in the bedrock and the emissions into the atmosphere – our age has been named anthropic. It is a concept that should capture the fact that man's influence on the planet is now so total that it defines our entire geological epoch. The anthropology now notes the sixth mass extinction of species. The latest was 65 million years ago, in the transition between Cretaceous and Tertiary, when, among other things, dinosaurs died out. Since 1970, the number of wild vertebrates has fallen by over 50 percent. Freshwater species have decreased by over 80 percent. The coral reefs, which today are home to every fourth marine animal, die at such a rate that if this continues, there will be no coral reefs left in just 30 years. The headlines of the summer and autumn have witnessed extreme weather, streets melting, hurricanes and floods, and behind the scientific alarms are louder and louder. The Max Planck Institute reports how a constantly warmer century will give the Middle East and North Africa extreme heat for up to 200 days a year. Desert storms and heat risk making large parts of the region completely uninhabitable. In another study, American and Chinese researchers note that in just 50 years' time, the heat in the valleys of Gange and Indus can exceed that in which a fully grown healthy person can live. Today, one fifth of the earth's population lives there. A third study, published in The Lancet Planetary Health, warns that the number of people affected by extreme weather in Europe is steadily increasing. By the end of the century, two thirds of the population may be affected annually. 150 000 more people are at risk of dying of floods, heat strokes, heart and respiratory problems, infections and food shortages in Europe each year. What is happening requires a decisive insight on the part of each and every one of us. The climate threat is no longer about polar bears. The environmental issue has become critical of civilisation. That's what anthropic means. The ability of the planet to carry human civilization is determined by man himself. Our choices, individual actions and joint decisions determine the future. It's urgent, but it's not too late. The research scenarios are all based on non-action – that we stand still and continue to argue about things like SEK 60 more expensive domestic flights while the water masses are pouring down on the world's poorest. If we pull ourselves together, however, we can face the climate threat. That is why Sweden is needed. When the world is troubled by Trumps's ignorance, we take steps forward. Together, we have adopted perhaps the most ambitious climate law in the world. Now we are filling it with action: increased taxes on what is bad for the environment, reduced taxes on repairs and innovations. It is electric roads, biofuels, bicycle paths, smart and child-friendly cities, eco-food from Swedish, animal-friendly agriculture, protection of forests and the sea, less plastic, 100 percent renewable electricity, fast trains and good regional traffic. Never before has Sweden invested so much in building a new society – the world's first fossil-free welfare country. Europe's environmental movements now list us as one in terms of climate policy. This is what the Green Party is fighting for. Unfortunately, this is also something that other parties often want to stop, cut back on or prioritise away. But it won't last any longer. We don't have time to stand still. We need development. The world is screaming for leadership. We have so many more steps to take. Together we will move from an economy that fills mountains of technology scrap on Africa's shores and continents of plastic in the oceans to smart solutions, closed circuits, recycling and digitalisation. We are going to go from a present time where we waste the energy stored in the earth's crust for millions of years to a high-tech society that can be developed by the energy that every second hits the earth. We are going to move from a society that burns out both the plane and people, where wealth is measured in gadgets and consumption, to a future with time for each other and ourselves, where listening to what children say about school day can be more important than the work conversation in the evening. This, Mr President, is a future worth fighting for.
i-1989b43a840098c9-52	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is in many ways a fantastic country. We have strong growth, employment is increasing and the scope for reform is great. We live in a country where creativity bursts. With us there are innovative people all the way from north to south. Swedish companies are everywhere. Swedish countryside is around the world. It is precisely this that we encourage creativity and pave the way for entrepreneurs and are open to the outside world that builds Sweden strong. It is in this way that we must also continue to strengthen our competitiveness. We must continue to see opportunities and solutions. We must continue to ensure that Sweden stays together. Mr President, I would like to Although the sun shines, there are dark clouds in the sky, clouds that the government chooses to close its eyes to. Although many are doing well, not everyone is doing well. New arrivals, long-term unemployed and young people without education are people who want nothing but to contribute but never get the chance. Next year they will be nearly 80 per cent of the unemployed. A new sub-class dependent on benefits is about to become permanent. It splits Sweden. This is something that the Center Party, unlike the government, will not accept. It is for their sake that we want to lower the thresholds. It is for those outside that we want to change the labour market. This is why Sweden needs a new leadership. Mr President, I would like to To prevent the cleavage, jobs are the most important issue. More people need a chance to get their first job. Together with the Alliance, we want to see entry jobs – jobs that combine a lower entry salary and removed employers' contributions with the opportunity to learn at work. You have heard me drum this in before, but in the political reality in which we now live it can stand to be repeated. If we're gonna get the jobs, we're gonna give people a chance to contribute and what they can do, we're gonna have to invest in the companies, the job creators. Then it must be easier and cheaper to hire. We facilitate generational change in companies with fairer taxation and introduce lower taxation on employee options, allowing Sweden to compete on the global, innovative playing field. These are proposals that make a real difference. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is not only split when it comes to jobs. Security is also lacking. Investigations of crimes are being piled up. It is even so bad that children's police reports of rape end up in the anonymous pile of papers. Where people have the economically toughest spread gang crime. The threats of violent extremists are on the increase. There has to be a change. The rule of law shall apply to everyone everywhere. It is time that we seriously provided the resources needed by the police to combat crime and restore the rule of law and respect for it throughout the country. It is about more police officers who receive higher salaries and increased resources so that more crimes can be investigated and lead to convictions. Ordinary people must be given their freedom and security back. Mr President, I would like to Today the queues grow to care. During the Social Democrats' shift, the country is split by unfair regional differences. It affects people when they are at their most vulnerable and vulnerable. It affects them when society should be there and provide security, help and care. It is not reasonable that it takes much longer to get specialist care in Norrbotten than in Halland. It is not worthy of a welfare country like Sweden that children's mental illness is increasing, as are the queues for child and youth psychiatry. It's time for action. It's time for results. Queues must be shortened, and children's vulnerability must be taken more seriously. Families need the help they need. Care needs to get closer. Mr President, I would like to After decreasing during the time of the alliance government, climate emissions in Sweden are now increasing – they are increasing. This happens when the Green Party is in the government and has the political responsibility. The Center Party stands for a different policy. We are committed to effective measures that produce environmental results. We want to see a powerful bonus when buying an environmental car. We are investing heavily in infrastructure. We spend over 1 billion more than the government on securing access to clean and healthy drinking water throughout the country, on clean seas and on stopping the bottom death in the Baltic Sea. Through a powerful green tax shift, we raise environmental taxes significantly more than the government. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a fantastic country. It is a country of enterprising, hardworking and creative people. It is a country where we must ensure that the vibrant sense of confidence and of faith in the future can reach more, even the most vulnerable. We must ensure that Sweden stays together. With a new leadership for Sweden, we can get a stronger, safer and more open Sweden.
i-1989b43a840098c9-64	Mr President, I would like to The other week I listened to my two absolute favorite researchers, Kate Pickett and Richard Wilkinson. They are best known in Sweden for having written the book Equal Opportunities. They have devoted their research life to studying what happens to societies in equality and inequality and to the people living in these societies. The connections are astoundingly clear. Equality gives people better health and longer lives. Equal societies tend to be more successful in fighting crime. Social mobility, the ability to change classes, increases with equality. As the differences increase, as they have done in the Western world and in fact most in Sweden, one can see how more children suffer in society, for example. A clear trend is that the absolutely richest are drawing away. I found it particularly interesting to see a connection between certain psychological conditions and inequality. In unequal societies that focus on competition and material consumption, you get more depression. More people feel that they are not successful and that they are inadequate, and more narcissists glorify themselves. We compare ourselves to each other. We're social beings. When you say this, bourgeois counter-debaters usually say: Yes, but the most important thing is not whether we are unequal or not, but that those who have the worst are reasonably well off. No, the research says otherwise. It says that inequality in itself affects societies even though the lowest level of living is relatively high. People want equality. Throughout the world, people want society to be more equal than what they experience. At the same time, they believe that the society in which they live is more equal than it actually is. One does not realize how much of our wealth is in a small number of people. That is the world in which we live. These insights are important to us when we sit and negotiate with the government or present our proposals. Class differences should be reduced. The inequality that exists between men and women should be levelled out in Swedish society. That's why we negotiate and get a tax reduction for the union fee – we do this not only because it means the most to those who are hotel and restaurant workers or working in commerce, but also because a strong trade union movement has a direct connection with increased economic equality. That's why we invest in health care – we do that because welfare keeps a society together and because it increases equality in society but also because it is investing in women's work, the women who are systematically underpaid. That is why we are increasing the study grant for those who study at the university so that even those who come from a home without study experience should dare to attend higher education studies. That is why we are again raising the standard of living for single parents or ensuring that children can travel free of charge in public transport in the summer. That is what it looks like when the Left Party is involved in negotiating a budget. It's about equality. A political journalist described it as being in the DNA of the Left Party. Yes, it is. Equality has increased slightly with these budgets. The distribution profile is quite clear between men and women and between rich and poor. But there is too little, and it is too slow. And the absolute richest draw from Sweden. A few families often own the value of Sweden's state budget. Here has been our greatest disagreement with the government. They don't want the absolute richest to contribute any more. We think it is more than reasonable for Sweden's billionaires to contribute more. One can look at the bourgeois draft budgets. They're going in the opposite direction. Bourgeois party leaders are beginning to talk about equality in this pulpit. But if you look at the proposals, you can see that it is the opposite. They lower the treasure, and they cut into the welfare. Worst of all are the Liberals. With surgical precision, they lower the taxes of the richest while lowering the wages of those who have the least. It is to actively and consciously increase inequalities in society. No one dislikes the Swedish model as the Center Party, which goes to frontal attacks on the system of free negotiations and strong trade unions that build equality. We want to legislate on lower wages. Somewhere here, my friends, there are elections for Sweden and voters in the 2018 election. It is about equality and welfare with the left or about increased inequality in cooperation with the right. I know what I choose. I know which way I want Sweden to go. There is a difference between left and right in politics.
i-1989b43a840098c9-76	Mr President, I would like to It's a great country we live in. On my travels around Sweden, I meet those who support our welfare, our security and our economic development. It is about the teachers, those who equip our children with knowledge. It's about home care, the ones that made it possible for my mother to live at home for the last few years of her life. It's about nurses, those who go to work to heal, nurture and cure the sick. It is about personal assistants who make everyday life possible for those who live with disabilities. It's about police officers and defense personnel, those who defend our security every day. It is about entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, those who invest and risk contributing to our economic development. But I'm also facing another reality. I see a school where the results are falling again and where the vulnerable children cannot concentrate because of trouble and lack of peace of mind. I see people losing hope in the care queues that are growing. I see those who call 911 for help but who come to a police officer who no longer has the power. It is a lower class that is growing in the midst of the boom, with low-skilled immigrants not being admitted to our country's labour market. In the midst of the boom, the gap between the m who were born here and the m who have fled here is widening. People have so much potential, but the government is unable to make the reforms needed to exploit their capabilities. The high walls around the labour market shut people out. The LO castle is like a barricade in front of the Swedish labour market. It is better, Prime Minister, to get a first job when you come here, even if the job is simple and the remuneration is slightly lower, than to spend your whole life on grants in exclusion. It's about the kids seeing their parents go to work. But for the Social Democrats it is more important that LO has power over the labour market than that people have power over their own lives. Mr President, I would like to This week I urged my eldest son to study properly for an upcoming test. We are many parents who do so, showing both expectations and encouraging children to study. But this is not the case for everyone, and it is for those children who grow up in an environment without a study tradition or in a home where parents do not know Swedish and do not understand the school's codes and languages that it is so extremely important how school policy is designed. I was born in such an environment in a textile worker's home in an industrial society. The Prime Minister was born and raised in such an environment. Like the Prime Minister, I have made the class trip, and I think I know what it takes for the school to encourage class trips in the future. I'm standing here because of my teachers. It is order and order, study discipline and high demands and expectations that create class travel. The children who grow up in our homes out in Bromma, in the suburbs, in a well-educated middle class can manage almost no matter how the school is organized, for parents pushar. It is for the other children that it is so extremely important how the school is organised, and that group is now growing strongly in Sweden, also as a result of the immigration of the low-skilled. Gustav Fridolin wants to say that it is the students themselves who should take responsibility in school and decide in the classroom, that the authoritarian teaching role should be broken down and the students decide for themselves. If our teachers had said that when I went to school, we would have gone to coffee instead of reading books. It is so important that the school has high demands and expectations and that the teaching profession is taken seriously. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is fantastic, but it can get even better – a country where everyone can be in real life. But major liberal reforms are needed to prevent Sweden from slipping apart and to restore the class society that we have left behind. Security will also increase in our suburbs. There's gotta be more cops. People should be lifted out of welfare dependency and given the freedom to support themselves. The education school should lift all children no matter where they come from and where they are going. Freedom will increase, and class trips will increase, not fewer. That is what is social liberalism!
i-1989b43a840098c9-85	Mr President, I would like to We are approaching a choice in which the Swedish people have to choose: Should we have four more years with the red-green's welfare falter, or should we change the government and start establishing the welfare promise? During Stefan Lövven's time in power, welfare has deteriorated in areas by area. Just look at what has happened to Swedish healthcare! When a Christian Democrat was Minister of Social Affairs, nine out of ten had surgery on time. Now we are down to about 75%, and the figure is falling. When the Alliance ruled, the care queues were hijacked. Since Stefan Löfven gained power, the number waiting for care has doubled. When you are in charge today, only three county councils will be able to meet the requirements of the care guarantee regarding places in child and child psychiatry. When the K ristdemocrats were in the government, a majority of the county councils were able to meet this demand. Stefan Löfven says, and he said so only in his introduction, that he is investing in welfare. But reality speaks another language. Some flowers don't lie. The care queues don't lie. Waiting times in the emergency room don't lie, and the number of nurses who quit don't lie. Three years with Stefan Löfven have been three years of deterioration, and this has happened in the midst of a boom. The conditions exist, but the leadership is lacking. It did not have to be like this; it is the result of the policy of the Red-Greens. In our budget, we propose to spend 27 1⁄2 billion more on health care than the government does. We can propose this because we do not offer everything to everyone. It's about prioritising. We are opting out of money from the big boxes, subsidies to the construction companies and subsidised e-bike purchases. In our budget, health care and care must be the priority. We send the money straight to the hospital floor, to the classroom and to the retirement home without passing through the municipal council and without any intermediate trail being able to pick out some for their own favorite project. We know how it works when the Social Democrats are involved and decide in the municipalities: hotel building in Gothenburg, exclusive bathhouse in Linköping and in Jönköping an arena that means that the municipality will not be able to afford investments in retirement homes. Money to go to welfare is wasted when the Social Democrats are in charge. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats prioritise what is at the heart of Swedish welfare, what must only work because it can be about life or death. I am thinking of the woman in Helsingborg who was worried about the birth because the fetus she was carrying no longer seemed to be moving. The business was so strained that they couldn't even accept her. She had to walk along the corridors to another part of the hospital to do an ultrasound. Although the results were not reassuring, she was not admitted and sent home to wait. Once back, after four days of anxiety, the doctors noted that the child was no longer alive. The Health and Care Inspection notes that the organisational conditions for optimal care of the patient did not exist at the time of the event. This is bureaucrat Swedish because Skåne's medical care that day had failed. The staff had alerted the problems and done what they could, but the system did not work. It is a system error and a lack of welfare, Mr President. It is also against all those who get their personal assistance involved in the government's intensive cost-hunting within the LSS. It's more than two people a day. The Christian Democrats want to restore the LSS to the freedom reform it once was, and we devote 3.3 billion more than the government to this in our budget. Mr President, I would like to There is a difference when the Christian Democrats rule and when the Social Democrats rule. It can be seen in priorities, it can be seen in outcomes and it can be seen in what you consider to be the very, very important thing. For the Christian Democrats, a restored promise of welfare is first. That is what we want to do with our comrades, and that is why, Mr President, it is time for a new government!
i-1989b43a840098c9-98	Mr President, I would like to There is no doubt that Sweden has its fair share of challenges. Now we have changed and changed the direction of Swedish politics for three years on point after point. We have prioritised welfare over major tax cuts. We have changed the policy of refugees which was unsustainable and which was founded under the bourgeois government. We are paying off the public debt, which is now the lowest since 1977. More people work, and fewer than in many, many years now depend on our common insurance systems. That's what it looks like. We have reversed the large deficit you left behind, and this year the surplus is SEK 80 billion. These resources are needed, because we have so many challenges ahead of us. In health care, the queues should be shortened, in the care of the elderly more should be employed and in school each student should be given the opportunity to learn more. All of this is a recipe for security. Keeping up with this and making sure that priority is right, then the time of the great steps is also ahead of us. We can seriously rebuild welfare in Sweden. Now do not let the bourgeoisie destroy the economy again. But then you look at their budgets, and they're there again. They have also accounted for their budgets, and they have been audited. The simple questions are: How will SEK 100 billion in tax cuts improve welfare? How will school get better with cuts? How will it be safer for the elderly when municipalities and county councils receive less resources? Everyone knows the answer: it doesn't make sense. That policy was tested not only during your last eight years in government but also for many years. This policy increased inequality, eroded public finances, increased unemployment and impoverished welfare. It's a recipe for insecurity. Save our country from that!
i-1989b43a840098c9-106	Mr President, I would like to Very few people believe in this division of roles in Swedish politics. Sitting government says it's all fantastic and that it's the government's credit. Sitting opposition says it's all misery and it's the government's fault. Sitting government says everything was bad in the past when the others ruled. It's a raspy record, and few people believe it. However, I think that many people are concerned about what is happening in the Swedish economy in the coming years. 中 Löfven plays Swedish roulette– if it doesn't work it's over, you could read in Svenska Dagbladet the other day. The Institute of Economics says: The government's proposed budget for 2018 is heavily underfunded. Public financial savings will be lower than is compatible with the surplus target. Only a small part of the 40 billion measures can be seen as structurally significant. You have to tighten up in 2019. What does the government know that no economists and expert authorities believe in?
i-1989b43a840098c9-110	Mr President, I would like to Using Svenska Dagbladet as a witness to truth in this discussion is perhaps a bit daring.
i-1989b43a840098c9-111	Ulf Kristersson sat in a government that made sure that there were severe deficits. They're the ones we took over. It was not just during those eight years. Reality is your worst enemy, Kristersson. You have had the government power for a total of 17 years in three different periods since the mid-70s. On all these occasions you left the government with a high budget deficit and higher unemployment. If there is something scientifically proven, it is your lack of knowledge to manage public finances. That's why we're not going back there. Now we have turned this situation around a third time. Now we are there again with a large surplus. We say that the surplus should be used so that everyone can take part in it. We pay off our national debt with one half of the surplus, and the other half we invest in welfare. How do you think 100 billion in tax cuts will strengthen welfare?
i-1989b43a840098c9-114	Mr President, I would like to I think the Prime Minister is arguing in an unserious way.
i-1989b43a840098c9-115	All the people who have followed the Swedish economy and politics in recent decades know that we had to deal with the biggest recession since the 1930s. Everyone knows that during such a recession, you are doing everything you can to support the economy. Everyone knows that Sweden managed its economy better than many other countries did. That you can now spend all the money in prosperity is because other governments before you chose not to spend all the money in prosperity but to build up the resources needed.
i-1989b43a840098c9-117	This must not be an economic seminar, but it would have been nice if the Prime Minister could take some basic humility in the face of world economics and the difficulties we have had behind us and which will stand before us again.
i-1989b43a840098c9-118	Mr President, I would like to It is amazing that an economist does not have better control of the figures. I'm a simple welder, and I can read. That was minus 60 billion in your last budget. Ulf Kristersson was in that government, and you chose to lower taxes on borrowed money. You borrowed. There was no recession in 2014. It always sounds like the bourgeoisie is unlucky. You have had the government on three occasions – 17 years. Are you going to go out in the election campaign and say that you had bad luck three times for a total of 17 years? ♪ Vote for us ♪ ..................................................... Consequently, we are lucky each time – three times out of three possible – to sort it out and get a surplus. Go out to the voters and say: Vote for those who are lucky. Now it is not a matter of luck or bad luck, it is a question of a difference between politics. Social democracy stands for order in public finances. We do this because we know that it is the best thing for jobs in the long term and the best for well-being in the long term. That's where we're gonna stand.
i-1989b43a840098c9-122	Mr President, I would like to Some have bad luck when they rule, and others have bad luck when they think. It can be that way sometimes. On 7 April this year something terrible happened in Stockholm. A man, illegal immigrants, steals a truck, plows down and kills and damages a large number of people on Drottninggatan in Stockholm. This illegal immigrant was flagged with Säpo. He was to be expelled, but he had departed and we didn't know where he was. Mr President, I would like to What lessons did the Prime Minister actually learn from the deed on Drottninggatan?
i-1989b43a840098c9-126	Mr President, I would like to The attack on Drottninggatan was, of course, a terrible event. It is a trauma to a country which, unfortunately, also happens to other countries. That is why we must ensure that migration policy is also in order. That is why we changed the refugee policy because it needs to be brought into order. But it is not possible to draw a sign of equality between refugees and terrorism per se, as the Swedish democrats want to do. Yes! In addition, someone – if it is a group member or a party secretary; everyone writes some strange posts on Twitter – has posted a photo of young people who have valid residence permits and equated them with terrorists. That's how you treat them. These issues need to be dealt with in a completely different way. That's why the police should have more resources, that's why Säpo needs more resources, that's why cooperation between the authorities must become stronger and better so that these people can be identified and removed and that's why there must be more detention places for those who are going out of the country.
i-1989b43a840098c9-130	Mr President, I would like to Last year the government said it intends to expel 80 000 people who are not supposed to be here. The latest figure I saw was that about 6,000 have been set aside. It is including those who have departed voluntarily. It's a modest number. Illegal immigrants openly demonstrate on streets and squares in Sweden without authorities doing anything other than watching. It's distressing. Illegal immigrants in Sweden have access to large parts of their welfare systems. I believe that it is an incentive for people to deviate and stay. Can Stefan Löfven answer how many people are in Sweden who are illegal and who have deviated? Can Stefan Löfven answer who they are, where they are and what their purposes are? Mr President, I would like to I don't think he can answer the questions, but I'm gonna give him a chance.
i-1989b43a840098c9-134	Mr President, I would like to I'm surprised that Jimmie Åkesson doesn't ask for social security numbers and collar numbers even when he's up and running. It's an unserious debate. We must ensure that migration policy is in order. Those who come here seeking asylum receive either no or yes. If they don't, they'll leave the country. If they do, they'll have the best possible entry into the country. We have ensured that the number of people who have left Sweden has increased considerably. Yes, it is. Whatever you say, Jimmie Åkesson is always shaking his head. That's it. Nor is it the case that everyone in this country has full access to welfare. That's not true. If you do not have the right to be here, you have the right to treatment that cannot stand. That's reasonable. This must be dealt with both in order and in order in migration policy. Those who are actually here will also come into society. The Swedish democrats are doing exactly the opposite. You remove opportunities for people to be integrated into Swedish society. You don't want that. So what's it gonna be? Well, then it'll be a shadow society with big gaps. The Swedish Democrats talk about one thing and do something completely different.
i-1989b43a840098c9-140	Mr President, I would like to The government is failing those who are currently outside the labour market, those who lack jobs, those who want nothing but to contribute. The real losers in the Social Democrats' budget and politics are those who belong to a vulnerable group in the labour market. They are unemployed, born abroad, the long-term unemployed and people with disabilities. Almost 80 per cent of the unemployed belong to these particularly vulnerable groups. But these are not the ones Stefan Löfven wants to talk about, because he lacks an answer. Despite the booming boom and the fact that we now have to implement reforms in the labour market, it is clinically clear in the government's budget on proposals that open the job door to more and ensure that more people are allowed to move from vulnerability to work. That is why Stefan Lövven's budget splits Sweden.
i-1989b43a840098c9-143	Mr President, I would like to I am among those who do not confuse solidarity with solidity. Job policy is so much more. Job policy is to keep public finances in order. Job policy is investment in housing and infrastructure. Job policy is education. Job policy is that we say: Let self-employed people get a reduced employer's contribution when they hire their first employee. Then we aim to where it actually makes a difference. For example, in the time of the bourgeois government, a young worker's contribution was tested. This would lead to lower youth unemployment. The result was a higher youth unemployment rate. It cost SEK 110 billion. It was a waste of money. We'll focus on those who need it. They shall have access to training. There are jobs that do not require such high qualifications, but you should have a salary that you can live on. You shouldn't have to starve. There's the dividing line.
i-1989b43a840098c9-147	Mr President, I would like to The halved employers' contributions created tens of thousands of jobs for young people. Speaking of inefficient labour market policies, let's talk about trainee jobs. The flag ship of the Social Democrats in the electoral movement has crashed. There are more people who have been in space than have got a trainee job, Stefan Löfven, so don't come and talk to me about effective proposals.
i-1989b43a840098c9-149	If we are to get more of the particularly vulnerable into the labour market, we must lower the thresholds. One of the proposals is about the Alliance's entry job. We would like the parties to come to an agreement. We want them to agree on lower entry wages so that you get a first chance to learn at work. If the parties agree on significantly lower entry wages and the state lowers employers' contributions and taxes on these jobs, can Stefan Löfven consider supporting this? Yes or no.
i-1989b43a840098c9-151	Mr President, I would like to During your reign, we had so high youth unemployment that we received support from the European Union. It doesn't happen often, but it happened during your reign. We said the high school graduates had to get into work, so we created trainee jobs. But during our reign, they've come into work anyway. Then you're pissed off. I'm glad because they got into work. Then we don't need the trainee jobs, so let's do something else. That is how pragmatic policies should be conducted. It is the parties who will handle the wage formation, not Annie Lööf and Jan Björklund and others. If the parties agree on ways to bring these people into the labour market so that they can also adapt to the Swedish labour market, fine, then we will make a deal with the parties how to support this.
i-1989b43a840098c9-154	Mr President, Prime Minister Löfven. Disease protection is a central part of a welfare state. Many sick people sighed with relief when the previous government left and thought that the hunt for the sick should surely be over. Some good things have been done, in cooperation with us among other things. The stemstock is gone, and replacement levels have been raised. But both you and I receive letters from desperate people who testify that, despite illness, they are denied sickness benefit from the Social Insurance Agency. It is people who are in no way healthier by also losing their financial security in the situation they are. One reason for this is probably the instruction to Försäkringskassan to keep the sickness rates down. But they should be kept down by people getting healthier and the working environment better, not by an instruction that puts pressure on failing more people who want sickness benefit. Is the Prime Minister prepared to change the instructions to Försäkringskassan in this part?
i-1989b43a840098c9-158	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Sjöstedt raises an important subject. It's about not falling between the chairs. We will of course work in a structured and consistent manner to reduce sickness rates. No one, not the sick one either, is happy that someone is still in illness for a long time. That's why, of course, we'll find ways back. We work with health care, employers and individuals to see what we can do together to reduce sickness rates. This should not be done in such a way that none of the compensation schemes takes care of the individual. Therefore, the responsible minister is reviewing this order, for that should not be the case. If you are not ill enough to receive sickness benefit, you must have support from another source. You're not supposed to fall between the chairs. We are now looking at this. We will have to come back once we have done this review.
i-1989b43a840098c9-161	Mr President, I would like to A review of how the certificates work and how they are handled by Försäkringskassan is necessary and good but probably insufficient. This review is too narrow, as I judge it anyway. It is also about the mission to Försäkringskassan. Yes, the sickness rates are going down, but they are going down because people are actually getting healthier, not because they get the certificates rejected. I think we are getting clear messages from individuals and from people working in health care that today's system treats many people badly. You experience a great degree of legal uncertainty. I'm a little disappointed in the answer. There must be a clear will to change this for the better, not just say: we are investigating it and seeing where we end up.
i-1989b43a840098c9-164	Mr President, I would like to I say this one more time: we are not supposed to have replacement systems where you fall between the chairs. But we need to see what it depends on and what will then be addressed. Our insurance systems are supposed to work, and you're supposed to be in the right insurance system. At the same time, we must remain focused on the fact that the person who is ill will return faster. What else is needed for rehabilitation measures? What else can Försäkringskassan do? What else can health care do? What else can the parties do? How can the parties' agreements make rehabilitation better and faster so that you get back to work faster and can be a free person again? That's the focus, but we're not going to fall between the insurance systems.
i-1989b43a840098c9-167	Mr President, I would like to Are Sweden's midwives high-income? According to the government, that's the case. Most of Sweden's midwives are now taxed as if they are high-income. The idea of the tax system is that most of us pay 30% tax while high-income people pay 50% tax. However, since the government wants more and more tax money every year to afford all grants and subsidies, it is necessary to count more and more people as high income earners year by year. The majority of Sweden's midwives are now taxed as high income. Specialist nurses are taxed as high income recipients. Principal teachers and secondary teachers are taxed as high-income recipients. These professions have one per thing in common. They are women-dominated academic professions, and they are not at the table when the LO board meets. Stefan Löfven! It must pay to train in Sweden, even in professions where women dominate.
i-1989b43a840098c9-172	Mr President, I would like to It is quite daring by Jan Björklund to talk about gender equality. He has put forward a budget in which almost 80% goes to men and 20% to women, where the four five tenths who have the worst get the worse and the richest tenth gets the most. Jan Björklund talks about gender equality and gender gaps. There are problems with gaps, but then you cannot put forward such a budget. For the bourgeoisie, the most important thing seems to be to reduce taxes. You have 100 billion in tax cuts together. How does Jan Björklund think it helps the maternity care to remove 100 billion in taxes? Of course, it's getting smaller. I think the midwives we're talking about will see that if it's a tax, it'll make it useful in health care. That's what we think.
i-1989b43a840098c9-175	Mr President, I would like to As everyone heard, Stefan Löfven did not touch the answer to the question I asked. Stefan Löfven! We have a shortage of specialist nurses. I heard you said this a moment ago. One of the reasons why we have a shortage of specialist nurses, midwives and high school teachers in Sweden is that they earn too little and are taxed too hard. The main problem is that it does not pay to train in Sweden. This is particularly true of the jobs that exist in the public sector, because it is politicians who set salaries there. During the post-war period, it has mainly been Social Democrats. You never dare raise the salaries of academics, but it is always LO's groups that are rewarded. The dock workers in Gothenburg have 49 000 SEK a month. There are no educational requirements to talk about when it comes to upper secondary school degrees and other things. They strike more than any other group, and the government dares not touch it. At the same time, high school teachers and midwives are taxed at a much lower rate in the same city. Stefan Löfven! It must pay more for women to educate themselves than for men to strike.
i-1989b43a840098c9-179	Mr President, I would like to That's why we're adding money to welfare. There is an end to the large unfunded tax cuts, which both saw to it that government finances were eroded and contributed less money to welfare. That doesn't make any sense. All the problems we are talking about here today, whether policemen, nurses or schools, are not solved by major tax cuts, but by investing together. Now we are training more, not least specialist nurses and midwives. Among other things, we do so in the way that those who are now nurses are allowed to retain their salary in order to train as specialist nurses. It is investment in education and training that is the solution to this issue. There may be different views on marginal taxes here and there, but I note that the Liberals' budget is the most unfair budget that has been presented this year and perhaps for many years. Why should the richest tenth have so much more and those who have the worst less? It's a policy that I'll never stand up for-- I can promise you that. It will have Björklund continue to fight for, because there will be no success here.
i-1989b43a840098c9-182	Mr President, I would like to Cut care queues or create care queues – the difference is a S, Stefan Löfven.
i-1989b43a840098c9-183	You say you want to shorten the care queues, but you don't tell me that it's your government that has surgical precision to ensure that the care queues increase. When you removed the queue billions, the number of county councils that met the demands for the care queues decreased from 16 to 6 county councils directly. Today, care queues have doubled, waiting times in the emergency room skyrocket, and nurses are ending more and more. Swedish healthcare is in crisis, and the government lacks an answer to how this crisis should be reversed. We Christian Democrats have answers. We invest 27 1⁄2 billion more than the government in health care, and we spend our money on structurally important reforms that can reverse developments in Swedish healthcare.
i-1989b43a840098c9-185	Mr President, I would like to The memorial remembers that the care queues began to turn upwards during your reign, Andreas Carlson. I think even the Moderates have said that the cue billion has played its part. It's your friends on the bourgeois edge. The Medical Association has said that the design of the queue billions is wrong. It is not automatically the person who needs care first who receives care, but it is another priority where you put a straight chord. We had to do something about that, and when we do, we had to bring resources to welfare. You have the same problem in the Christian Democrats. When you were in the government, you cut off. If you remove SEK 140 billion in tax revenue, it will be less to welfare. If you're going to try something else, you get big holes in government finances. This is what you left behind. We've taken care of that now. We are now making sure that we have stability and conditions, and we intend to continue to do so.
i-1989b43a840098c9-188	Mr President, I would like to I believe that those who follow this debate are more interested in hearing how to reverse the crisis in Swedish health care and solve the problems in the future. It is tiring to hear the Prime Minister's learned speeches from Sveavägen 68 – that tax cuts and spending on welfare do not go together. Our budget proves otherwise. We lower the tax on families with children, pensioners and those who are far from the labour market, but we invest 27 1⁄2 billion more in health care than the government does. We spend the money on structurally correct reforms. We want the government to take over the main responsibility for healthcare, we want to increase access to health centres, we have a performance-based compensation to get more care places, we invest more in psychiatry and student health and we re-introduce patient-responsible doctors. Stefan Löfven! Now you have one minute to answer. What are you going to do to take responsibility for the welfare you stand for – that you have created care queues?
i-1989b43a840098c9-192	Mr President, I would like to The KD will do that, that and that, and then together with its bourgeois colleagues you will reduce the tax by 100 billion. That equation doesn't add up. We have general grants to the county councils – more than they have received in many years. We have a specific initiative for patients where we will shorten the care queues and strengthen the care guarantee so that they can get faster to care. We want more care close to the patient and a focus on the health centres. We have about 1,000 health centres around the country and perhaps 80 – 90 hospitals – more care near the patient. We have a big effort on the employees so that you can hire more, improve conditions, raise wages or whatever you want to do – perhaps new working methods. We have a specific focus on cancer care so that cancer patients can receive treatment faster. We have a specific focus on maternity care so that women know that childbirth works and that they don't have to be worried when they're giving birth. On point by point, we are making proposals, and we are doing so because we can afford and manage public finances.
i-1989b43a840098c9-195	Mr President, I would like to I think it is with growing concern that more and more people are questioning what Swedes have taken for granted for decades: that the police come when you call and that you get care when you need it. I also believe that no task at the moment is as acute as crushing the criminal syndicates and gangs of gangsters who terrorize suburbs and infiltrate teenage gangs. Unless the core functions of the state are strong, the rest of society will be weak. It does not solve everything with more and well-equipped police officers, with sharp penalties for crimes against ambulances and emergency departments or even with new surveillance cameras, but it is clear that this is precisely what is needed at the moment. The government does not lead this work either. Mr President, I would like to During the year of the Alliance, the care queues were halved. During this government the queues have doubled. This undermines citizens' fundamental confidence in policy's ability to prioritise. But the fate of our time is about integration and exclusion. In spite of the good times, nearly 800 000 people live on benefits rather than on their own jobs, and it takes nine years for even half of the new arrivals to have a job or income. This development must be broken. It should always pay better to work than to live on benefits, and this requires both lower taxes on low incomes and a ceiling that limits benefits that are otherwise higher than wages. Mr President, I would like to The problems are difficult, but the times are good. It is now that Sweden has the resources to solve the problems we have, but then you have to see the problems, admit them and talk plain text about them, not mumble about investments and community building and say You have to prioritise and focus. That's why you rule. If you do not do this, you should simply give it up.
i-1989b43a840098c9-201	Mr President, I would like to Speaking of ruling, after many strange moves from the Moderates to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats, I think there were a lot of voters who might have had some positive expectations of a new leadership of the Moderates. But I think a lot of people have already been disappointed. The former moderate leader talked about cooperation and collaboration with the Swedish Democrats. The new moderate leader says immediately that he wants to take power with the help of the Swedish Democrats. A government that wants to build a Sweden strong cannot take the support of a xenophobic party. How does Ulf Kristersson think that Sweden would be affected by a bourgeois government that depends on the whims of Åkesson and the Swedish Democrats? How would the fight against anti-Semitism be affected by a party with Nazi roots? How is Swedish security policy affected by a party that has such a cloudy view of Russia?
i-1989b43a840098c9-203	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister speaks again against better judgment. I have said incredibly many times that the Moderates talk, cooperate and compromise with valuation friends in the Alliance. We stand for our own policy in full. If others vote for our policy, we have no problem with that. When the Social Democrats put forward proposals that stop foreigners from entering Sweden to work, anyone can vote for that policy if they want to. When the Social Democrats are not seeking support for things that only the Swedish Democrats could vote for, you are free. We are pursuing our policy right into the tile, because we owe it to our constituents. It would shock me if the Prime Minister had a different view of the role of the Social Democrats in Swedish politics. To throw out accusations that he knows do not attach to the values that we have, in fact, I find unworthy.
i-1989b43a840098c9-206	Mr President, I would like to You actually have to make up your mind. What do you want to do? What are you willing to do? I have said that I will never make myself dependent on the Swedish Democrats in the Swedish Parliament. I want to break the harmful block policy and, of course, to cooperate across the block. That is the solution here. But what you are actually proposing here and focusing on, Ulf Kristersson, demands support from a party with Nazi roots, with rogue budgets that risk the Swedish households' interest rates and mortgages and whose party leader – Jimmie Åkesson – does not hesitate to use this Parliament as his own playhouse and send a text message to their representatives and say: Give them hell! You have tested this in Gävle and Hässleholm. In Gävle, the Swedish Democrats have now voted your budget out, so now you are sitting there with an S-budget. In Hässleholm it is pure chaos. Is that how you should have it also in the Swedish parliament, Ulf Kristersson?
i-1989b43a840098c9-209	Mr President, I would like to Allowing the Swedish Democrats to veto a budget in the Swedish Parliament would be as unserious as allowing the Left Party to veto a budget in the Swedish Parliament.
i-1989b43a840098c9-210	I would never let them. I would never accept a policy that makes it impossible to cooperate with cross-blocks. When the Prime Minister speaks of cross-block politics, it means clearly that no matter how small the Social Democrats are, the Social Democrats should always hold the government power. That is not my view of Swedish politics.
i-1989b43a840098c9-212	Mr President, I would like to I'd almost rather take a line on the PM, but I can't. I also welcome Ulf Kristersson, as the black sheep in this context, in the party leader circle. I think it is a welcome addition. I think that Ulf Kristersson's speech is the first to be relatively sober in view of migration policy, not least. Ulf Kristersson says that migration is not black or white. I share that view. He also talks about the need for responsibility in migration policy. How many illegal immigrants we have in Sweden today know no one. There is talk of everything between 20,000 and 100,000. The government that Ulf Kristersson was part of during the last parliamentary term gave illegal immigrants access to welfare. Then my question is: how can we say, on the one hand, that illegal immigrants should leave the country and, on the other hand, give them incentives to remain in the form of welfare services? I can't make this go together.
i-1989b43a840098c9-217	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your welcome. I think there are some fundamental things that one must try to have in mind when discussing Sweden's relationship with the outside world and Sweden's relation to migration. One is that transparency in itself is so valuable that Sweden must realise that we have built our entire prosperity on international cooperation and international competition and openness. I believe that we rarely fully understand this. I think that one must seriously understand the importance of a Sweden that is interested in the outside world and that welcomes the outside world to Sweden and therefore sets up a number of basic rules: Welcome here and support yourself! Welcome here and build our prosperity and your own! You can't suspect people as soon as they come from another country. One cannot always see all the problems in the other and no problems in ourselves. I think this is the fundamental misapprehension that you so often land in, Jimmie Åkesson.
i-1989b43a840098c9-222	Mr President, I would like to I think that Ulf Kristersson, who has promised more maturity in politics, is guilty of exactly what the Prime Minister just did, namely ascribe to me things that I do not support. The reason I raised illegal immigrants is because I know that we agree that illegal immigrants should be expelled, not least after listening to Ulf Kristersson's speech. But what I can't get together is why the Moderates are still in favour of illegal immigrants having incentives to stay in the country in the form of welfare services. I can't make it all go together. It doesn't make any sense. Why is it reasonable, Ulf Kristersson, that the terrorist on Drottninggatan, Rakhmat Akilov, pays SEK 50 for dental care while a Swedish pensioner pays the full price? Why do Ulf Kristersson and the Moderates think that is reasonable?
i-1989b43a840098c9-225	Mr President, I would like to As I said, I think you have to be much more powerful in ensuring that people who have been given a decision on expulsion leave the country. In the same way, we must be much better at ensuring that the people who have been given a decision that they will stay in Sweden for good reason will enter Swedish society, support themselves and become part of our community. These things don't stand against each other. Both are needed. At the same time, when you do this, you should be clear about not sending double signals. The difficult question then comes to the question: How should children be affected by the fact that their adult parents have made decisions that are not in accordance with Swedish law? I am not saying that we have had a good solution to this right now, but I am simply saying that small children may need to be protected even when adults have made bad decisions. I do not think this is a black and white question either. I think that we should be clearer than we are today about the fact that the person who has received a rejection decision must leave the country and that we do not compromise on this in the way we do today.
i-1989b43a840098c9-227	Mr President, I would like to When the railway between Hässleholm and Vittsjö was opened in 1890, the trains were able to drive at 40 kilometres an hour on the new track. But there were those who thought it was too fast. It can't be good to go so fast, you said. So the trains were only allowed to drive at 30 kilometers per hour. When the main course was then planned, Conservative MPs strongly argued against it. It would be too expensive, they said, if what we now know more than anything else laid the foundation for modern Sweden's development and prosperity. Now it's time again. Ulf Kristersson does not want to invest in rail. The Moderates say no to new main courses. You still seem to be afraid of trains driving too fast. There are proposals for some kind of congestion tax for trains. Two years ago, absolutely necessary efforts were postponed to maintain our existing network. Although this is an old conservative tradition, I have to ask: What do the Moderates really have against people travelling by train?
i-1989b43a840098c9-231	Mr President, I would like to Can I first just correct one thing? So we have not proposed congestion taxes on trains. That statement is no less false because it is repeated over and over again. If it were just about the fascinating technology of high-speed trains, I would have been to them. If it were just about the speed of the trains, I'd be for them. Had it only been about how fast you can get between Stockholm and Malmö and between Stockholm and Gothenburg I would have been for them. But this is about one more thing, which you are rarely particularly good at, Gustav Fridolin: a few hundred billion SEK to be financed from the state budget. It is a few hundred billion dollars that can be used for other things that could be even more important right now. It is also about the small detail that all socio-economic calculations show that this is genuinely unprofitable. I know this isn't your home branch, Gustav Fridolin, and I have respect that you can't be the best at everything. But you have to think about what the money is going to be used for if we don't use it for investments we know are unprofitable.
i-1989b43a840098c9-234	Mr President, I would like to It is a bit bleak to start talking about home branches when you just left a government with a budget that was out of balance and debating with a minister in a government that actually puts budgets in balance. It's the way you show what's a home branch and not.
i-1989b43a840098c9-235	Then I think that anyone who wants to go and look in the parliamentary records, because what we just heard was probably almost literally how conservative MPs argued against the main courses that were built a hundred years ago. They said it would be too expensive. It was missed to see that labour market regions are growing when people can travel quickly. Then we will have the opportunity to develop, and then people will have the opportunity to take a job also a bit away from where they live. Companies are given the opportunity to compete in a different way. The rest of the world builds fast trains, but in Sweden the Moderates want to tie us to new tracks to be built with old technology. They want to put a ban on driving the trains too fast. This is exactly how Vittsjö- and Hässleholmsbor reasoned over a hundred years ago, and it was old-fashioned already then.
i-1989b43a840098c9-237	Mr President, I would like to It is not the case that every country with 10 million inhabitants is building fast trains for a few hundred billion dollars. It's not like that. There are cities that do – Shanghai and Beijing, for example. There are some small differences between Shanghai and Beijing on the one hand and Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö on the other. You shouldn't exaggerate them, but they're there. It is clear that these investments are possible in cities with as many people as Sweden has inhabitants in total, because they have different conditions. I want us to use the resources to improve commuting opportunities for the people who are waiting daily for trains that are not on time. Customer meetings that don't happen and staff who come late to their patients – that's where the investments do the most good.
i-1989b43a840098c9-239	Mr President, I would like to Moderate welfare policy is dominated by privatisations, market solutions and the pursuit of profits. If you want to look at what would happen to Swedish healthcare if the Moderates gained power in Sweden, you should make a study visit to Stockholm. Here you can see your politics in practice, Ulf Kristersson. There are many health centres in neighborhoods where health is good and few where it is really needed. The new Karolinska Flagship is beginning to resemble the Vasa regal ship with great concern in terms of economic development. BB Sophia, the first large private delivery department, chose to close because it did not make a profit. Stockholm's maternity care is still suffering from the consequences of this closure. At Ultragyn the doctors cut into women's bodies and got the bonus the more they operated. Do you, Ulf Kristersson, promise to continue with this failed policy throughout Sweden if the accident is there and you win the election?
i-1989b43a840098c9-242	Mr President, I would like to Why can we not have a debate which is, instead, about what everyone really knows we like differently? It is that we want different options in welfare, where public and private performers are allowed to do different things in slightly different ways and where the individual, with public funding, can decide for himself. Without misinterpreting you, Jonas Sjöstedt, you basically think that the public should account for how it works, who does it and exactly how it is done. That's where we really differ. Neither you nor I want public or private money to be wasted unnecessarily. Neither you nor I want anyone to get hurt in medical care. You don't have to pretend that's the case. You want public monopolies and you stand for it, and I want freedom of choice in welfare and I stand for it. I'm gonna ask you a question back. Do you want to close privately owned and operated Saint Göran's Hospital in Stockholm, Jonas Sjöstedt?
i-1989b43a840098c9-244	Mr President, I would like to There is a clear reason why Ulf Kristersson argues as he does. I am not against choosing which health centre you go to; I think it is good. The same goes for hospitals. It is in the Swedish patient law, and there is complete agreement on that. The disagreement is about something else, namely the question: should money for health care go to private profits rather than to welfare? Should it be the case that maternity wards close down when they are not profitable? Should it be so that the health centre can shut down overnight and on Facebook notify the patients: ♪ ♪ That's exactly where the disagreement is, Ulf Kristersson. That is what you do not want to talk about, because even your own voters do not think it is reasonable. One of the few good sides of the right that I can see is that you tend to be economical with taxpayers' money. Here, however, is your blind spot. The billions are running out here to Skanska and healthcare companies, and it does not seem to concern you that money that would go to sick people and better salaries for healthcare professionals goes somewhere else entirely. What about the responsibility for taxpayers' money with the right-wing leaders these days?
i-1989b43a840098c9-247	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party is therefore not against freedom of choice as long as freedom of choice takes place within the framework of the public monopoly. It's deeply impressive, really. What has happened in modern times in Sweden is the realization that we combine a unique welfare model with the thought of each and every one as needed, of each and every one according to his ability, but you have the right to decide for yourself. "Empowerment" called progressive SSUs this when I was young, and we have always called it a freedom of choice. Let people make their own, adult decisions within the framework of an idea where we jointly stand for the welfare that is needed! If someone misuses this – if any municipal politician or hospital manager in the public sector spends money badly – it should be stopped. If a privately run hospital wastes money in a bad way, it should also be stopped. That's why we want quality to be in the high seat. With Reepalu, which you are now forcing on this poor government, you are doing everything you can to stop quality and choice.
i-1989b43a840098c9-250	Mr President, I would like to I feel compelled to take some of these two minutes to respond to Stefan Lövven's hateful, bizarre outcome in a replica shift with Ulf Kristersson earlier. It is certainly so – I do not question it – that there was someone or some with Nazi background, and certainly Nazi views, in my party at the beginning of its creation. I've never questioned that. I don't know, because I wasn't there, but I've read that it probably was. However, the Swedish Democrats have never set up a racial biology institute and devoted ourselves to state racial research. We have never been guilty of forced sterilization of inferior racial elements. We have never been guilty of stamping the word a Jew in Jewish refugees' passports. On the other hand, the party that Stefan Löfven represents has been guilty of.
i-1989b43a840098c9-253	I therefore think that it is a bit meagre to use this rhetoric against me in every debate. Does Stefan Löfven have nothing else to offer? Does Stefan Löfven have any factual arguments? Are you so afraid to meet me and my party in an objective debate that you must constantly resort to these extremely low and directly ugly attacks on us, Stefan Löfven? I think it's so low. It is not a prime minister of our country to engage in this kind of debate. It is terribly low, and it is embarrassing, Mr President.
i-1989b43a840098c9-254	I was going to go into Stefan Lövven's bragging about what he is now doing for Swedish healthcare, but we will have to get back to that. I'm sure there's a reason to do it eventually.
i-1989b43a840098c9-255	Mr President, I would like to This was a sore toe. In addition, the Swedish Democrats have clearly highlighted their right-wing politics. These are reduced taxes, reduced working conditions and welfare gains. The Swedish Democrats would like to appear as the party to ordinary people, but in question after question they are on the side of the establishment. The latest betrayal is directed at Swedish employees. Recently the bourgeois presented a joint wage reduction proposal, which was hailed by the Swedish Democrats. According to Hotell and Restaurang, this would pay a minimum wage of 12 000 – 13 000 SEK a month. Is it not better, Jimmie Åkesson, that those who come here to Sweden adapt to the Swedish labour market than that they do the opposite? Why do you want to lower wages for ordinary people just because we accept refugees in Sweden, Jimmie Åkesson?
i-1989b43a840098c9-258	Mr President, I would like to I don't want to cut wages. I have no other opinion than that of Stefan Löfven. Wages are not put by us here in the Swedish parliament, but it takes care of the parties in the labour market. I think this is a perfectly reasonable order that we should safeguard. The Prime Minister claims that we want to reduce taxes. That's quite a statement. I want to lower taxes. I want to reduce taxes on pensioners. I want to lower taxes for those who earn the least. I want to reduce taxes on small and medium-sized enterprises, so that they can grow and so that they can hire more. Why is it wrong, Stefan Löfven, to make such tax cuts? These are the real tax cuts for the ordinary people and for the important creators of jobs in our country. Stefan Löfven also claims that we want to reduce working conditions, but it is the opposite. We are making tremendous efforts, not least in health care and care, to improve working conditions, so that more people want to work in these incredibly important professions in the future too.
i-1989b43a840098c9-261	Mr President, I would like to The fact is that the Swedish Democrats want to reduce taxes most, which will affect Swedish welfare. The fact is that the Swedish Democrats in this House have voted against a reduction in tax on pensioners. It's your pensioner's allowance, Jimmie Åkesson. You have spoken very positively about the bourgeois wage reduction proposals, and the fact is that you wanted to lower wages for even more people. When your fiscal spokesperson spoke about this proposal, he said exactly that – he wanted even more groups to be covered by these cuts in wages. Here's the thing about the Swedish Democrats. You say that you should invest in welfare, but in the budget you take 13 billion crowns from welfare. You want to appear as a party to ordinary people, but you take, in comparison with our budget, from a single nurse with two children in order to lower the tax for millionaires. It is as usual with the Swedish Democrats: you say one thing, but you do another thing.
i-1989b43a840098c9-265	Mr President, I would like to I'll send you the distributional policy profile of our budget, Stefan Löfven, and you'll read it. I think that's enough. Every year we've been in Parliament – it's seven years now – we've proposed that the tax on pensioners be reduced. Stefan Lövven's party has voted against this proposal every time. Every time you have voted against it! It's strange. It's very strange. I think it is reasonable for us to ensure a fair tax system in this country in the long term. I believe that what makes people want to work more and creates incentives for work is that you get more left in your own wallet when you work. That is why we are doing tax cuts for those who earn the least, for pensioners and for small and medium-sized enterprises that create jobs. I think these priorities are reasonable. That the Prime Minister doesn't think it's surprising.
i-1989b43a840098c9-269	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats want to abolish the father months, cut support for women's organisation, reintroduce co-taxation, stop preschools from working against children being restricted by narrow gender roles, reintroduce the custody allowance and restrict abortion rights. Right now, a global battle for abortion is raging. One of Donald Trumps's first decisions was to strangle assistance to organisations that work for women's rights if they simultaneously inform about abortions. More women in poor countries will be forced into dangerous, unsafe abortions. Marie Stopes estimates that more than 21,000 more women are expected to die if the decision only stops their necessary information and help. Sweden prioritises the work for women's health and rights in our assistance. Isabella Lövin has gathered the world to gather the funds that Trumps's decisions threaten. My question is, which side is SD on here? Is SD for Swedish aid to strengthen women's health and rights, including the right to safe abortion, or does Jimmie Åkesson join up behind Trump even here?
i-1989b43a840098c9-273	Mr President, I would like to As far as I know, I'm not closing up behind Trump in any respect. I've never made such a statement and I don't think I'll ever do it either. We don't want to abolish the father months. We want the father months to be able to be as many as possible, if the fathers and mothers are left to decide for themselves. Why does Gustav Fridolin think he is better at deciding that than the mothers and fathers themselves? I think the mothers and fathers can decide for themselves how many father months, mother months or other months it should be. They can do that perfectly well without Gustav Fridolin's help – that's my conviction. I'm in favour of free abortion. On the other hand, I note that we already have a restriction on the right to abortion. Abortion is not allowed until the moment of birth. If this is what Gustav Fridolin said, then you are most woman-friendly if you allow abortion until the moment of birth. How unkind is Gustav Fridolin himself?
i-1989b43a840098c9-276	Mr President, I would like to We write in 2017, and women still earn less than men. If this is to be tackled, two things must be tackled. There is a need to have more equal management in Sweden, also in private companies, and to have a more equal take-up of parental insurance. Every such step goes against the Swedish Democrats. Jimmie Åkesson didn't answer my question. You often say as you do now, that the Swedish Democrats only want to adjust a little in Swedish abortion law and only have a few suggestions for changes. Here, however, you show what you really stand for. Trumps's decision violates women's right to information and information even in countries where abortion is extremely limited. It stops organizations from working at all for the right to safe abortion in countries where this is completely forbidden, whatever the reason and reason for the abortion. Therefore, I ask: When we gather the world to add the funds that Trumps's decisions threaten, do the Swedish democrats put up with that priority, or do you agree on this issue behind Trumps's limitations and threats to women's health and rights?
i-1989b43a840098c9-280	Mr President, I would like to I am not familiar with what Gustav Fridolin himself represents. I am also not familiar with the detail of what Trump represents in this regard. Are there only the two options? Couldn't there be other options? Do you have to think either as Gustav Fridolin or as Donald Trump? I don't know if I want to live in that world, honestly.
i-1989b43a840098c9-281	Speaking of women's conditions: How do we create gender equality, and how do we get a more even take-out of parental insurance? I believe that an important factor is that we are making investments in women-dominated professions, such as health and care. That is why we are investing billions in enabling full-time rights for more people. If everyone in the public sector who wants to work full-time would have the opportunity to do so, it would be about 20 000 years of work. This means an enormous number of more hands in healthcare. I think this is a sensible gender equality and welfare priority. That is our policy.
i-1989b43a840098c9-283	Mr President, I would like to Racism is disgusting. This was the start of the Swedish Democrats' campaign film for the 2014 elections. I agree. In the Sweden that I want to see – a Sweden that is more open, safer and stronger – we stand up against racism and xenophobia. There we mark stone hard against hate and threats, no matter where it comes from. Jimmie Åkesson claims that he has introduced zero tolerance to racism in the Swedish Democrats. This is, of course, welcome and, given the rate of exclusion, much needed, but if you are to have zero tolerance to racism, the concept needs to mean something. My question to Jimmie Åkesson is therefore: How do you define racism?
i-1989b43a840098c9-287	Mr President, I would like to How do I define racism? I do not define racism in any other way than the usual definition. The problem with the racist concept is that it has been eroded. It has been devalued for so many years, because once criticism of immigration policy has been made public, it has been called racist or worse. I don't share that definition. Racist is one if one considers that there are different races within humanity and that the races have different values. It's a definition of racism. A broader definition could also be that the more worthy races have the right to oppress the inferiors. I am not behind this, and I agree with Annie Lööf that it is a basis for evaluation that must be fought with all the means at its disposal.
i-1989b43a840098c9-290	Mr President, I would like to Yet there are statements from high-ranking Swedish democrats, even in the party leadership, who categorize and define people according to their skin colour, culture or religion. Last week SD's group leader posted a picture on Facebook where young people were supposed to be here in Sweden illegally and be potential terrorists. It is difficult to make any interpretation other than that Mattias Karlsson made that assessment solely on the basis of his perception of the ethnicity of young people. The same Karlsson has stated in the News that refugees are up to tens of thousands of potential sex offenders and terrorists without ID documents. SD's party secretary, Åkesson's closest hand, compares religion Islam with a Trojan horse in war against the West. Your representative in the College of Presidents doubts that Jews and Sami can be Swedes. Are they listed examples of statements by Jimmie Åkesson's ultimate party leadership racism?
i-1989b43a840098c9-293	Mr President, I would like to No, it's not racism. There's nothing in what Annie Lööf now listed, with some modified truth to be said – you get to put things in context – that has something to do with racism. Annie Lööf should know that. However, one must not think that Jews in Sweden have the right to their own identity or that Sami in Sweden have the right to their own identity. You don't have to like it if you don't want to. I think it's important and I think it's important, but maybe Annie Lööf doesn't think so. You don't have to think that illegal immigrants should be expelled. Maybe Annie Lööf doesn't think so. I think so. Annie Lööf may think it's good that the authorities, the police and others, stand and watch illegal immigrants show up on streets and squares in Sweden. I think it's bad. That is why I want to do something about it, and that is exactly what this discussion is about. Stop calling all criticism of immigration policy racism! You've been doing that way way too long. It only creates breeding ground for segregation and extremism.
i-1989b43a840098c9-297	Mr President and Jimmie Åkesson! In the budget presented by us and the government, 3.7 million wage earners receive reduced tax. We reintroduce the right to deduct trade union fees. It is particularly beneficial for those with low incomes. It is the nurses and those who work in shops and restaurants who get the most severe tax reduction. Moreover, the budget benefits all those who can now afford to join a trade union. In the long term, this will provide them with better wages and better working conditions. But then the Swedish Democrats say no. The nurses are not worth this tax cut, and we should not make it easier for people to join a trade union. Why do the Swedish Democrats not want to reduce the tax so that it benefits the low-paid? And why are the Swedish Democrats in favour of a system in which employers today have the same right of deduction as the one denied to workers? Why do you want to unilaterally favour the business side at the expense of employees?
i-1989b43a840098c9-300	Mr President, I would like to When you read a draft budget, it is good to read more than one page. I do not know exactly how many pages our budget consists of, but it is in all more than one. There are more than that page that Jonas Sjöstedt has read. We lower the tax more than Jonas Sjöstedt and the government for those who earn the least. Jonas Sjöstedt would have known if he had read more than one page of our budget. Furthermore, Jonas Sjöstedt forgets to tell us that he is raising taxes for ordinary employees, because he thinks they are high-income earners. You give with one hand and bring the other, Jonas Sjöstedt. And why on earth, Mr President, should the tax reduction apply only to those who are members of a trade union? Why is that? Why do you follow the line that LO forces you to take, Jonas Sjöstedt? I don't understand that. I represent the interests of the employees. That is my starting point in this policy.
i-1989b43a840098c9-304	Mr President, I would like to Jimmie Åkesson's tracking inaccuracies. In fact, I have looked at the Swedish Democrats' budget. It's not the funniest thing to read, but you're forced to read it when you're a party leader. You're giving the big tax cuts to the richest, Jimmie Åkesson. You are spending twice as much as our tax cut is worth reducing the tax for the 30% richest. They're the winners of your budget. It then goes out to the welfare. You're cutting billions of dollars in subsidies to the municipalities. It's a classic right-wing politics, Jimmie Åkesson. Yes, we think it is reasonable to have the right to deduct the trade union fee. We find it unfair that employers have the right to deduct while employees do not. It is an anti-employee policy. This is how parties act that want to weaken the trade union movement and thereby weaken employees' conditions in the long term. If you cannot answer why you say no to the reduction in the tax burden on employees that we have received, focus on the second question: where is the right to grant a right of deduction to companies' organisations and to what companies pay but not to an ordinary person?
i-1989b43a840098c9-308	Mr President, I would like to I note that you, Jonas Sjöstedt, are lying. You can't have read our budget, because if you did, you wouldn't be telling me what you're doing right now. I promised Stefan Löfven I'd send him the distributional profile of our budget. I'll send it to you, too, and you'll read it. As far as our tax proposals are concerned, it is the two in income decile that benefit most in percentage terms. So it is they who earn the second least, the tenth with the second lowest income. It's a fact. When it comes to age, it is the elderly who benefit most from our policies. Then you can stand here and make up whatever you want. But that's a lie; that's not true. To be honest, Mr President, wage earners in Sweden benefit from lower taxes. It creates incentives to work. But I believe that a prerequisite for reducing taxes cannot be to be a member of a trade union. I think that is the wrong priority.
i-1989b43a840098c9-312	Mr President, I would like to I think Annie Lööf raised an important issue here about why the Swedish Democrats are not a party like others. Group leader Mattias Karlsson's statement has already been touched on here. There are many statements of this kind of leading Swedish democrats. Oscar Sjöstedt is watching a film with German Nazis kicking sheep and calling them die Jew, and Sjöstedt is laughing. Jomshof says in an interview in Expressen 2015 that it would be a problem if more Jews lived in Sweden. A wide range of such statements have been made. Åkesson understands that this is not really good for his party, so he said a few years ago: We shall have zero tolerance. And you have excluded some members, Jimmie Åkesson. It's just that it's members of the grass-roots level that you're ruling out—also a Member of Parliament who a while ago said something that was completely crazy about Jews. But those who sit in the party leadership and who say things like this, they defend Åkesson. What does zero tolerance mean in this case, Jimmie Åkesson?
i-1989b43a840098c9-316	Mr President, I would like to We have a parliamentary situation that will probably not be easier after the next elections, but this country will probably be more difficult to govern given the parliamentary situation. That's my guess; I can't know. Then I think we need to introduce more maturity and intellectual integrity into the debate. Like Annie Lööf, Mr President, Jan Björklund here chooses to extract a few quotes from her context. Some of them are not even quotes, but interpretations of what might have been said in an interview. Then you pull big gears on it. It is deeply dishonest to do that. If you stand here and claim that my party secretary is racist, Jan Björklund, explain why! He's not a racist. I'm not a racist. We have zero tolerance to racism in our party, and if people with racist views appear, they are excluded from our party. It's a fact.
i-1989b43a840098c9-319	Mr President, I would like to The definitions are not so important because we probably define racism a little differently. It is not the definition that becomes the important thing, but: What is it that you say? What does that mean? What does it stand for? What is the human view when, as your party secretary says, it would be problematic if more Jews lived in Sweden, Jimmie Åkesson? Didn't he tell you? Let's check with Expressen. It says. Then maybe Expressen is lying. What Jimmie Åkesson says is a rather important statement, and it should be checked out. That's what he says. If Mattias Karlsson hasn't written it on Facebook, someone else has written it. It's true what he wrote, isn't it? Do you deny it? Haven't Oscar Sjöstedt been laughing at that movie? Is that a lie, too? Is everything a lie? What does zero tolerance mean, Jimmie Åkesson? When it comes to common grass roots, you kick them out, but your closest circle protects you when they make these kind of statements. In every other party, leaders who make such statements had been removed from their assignments. But this is not happening in the Swedish Democrats. There they are defended by the party leader. You're not a party like others.
i-1989b43a840098c9-323	Mr President, I would like to We're not a party like others. I agree with that. I'm happy about that. It has never been my ambition to create a party that is like Jan Björklund's party or like the other parties here. Then we wouldn't have to. The very reason we exist is because you other parties are bad. We needed a better one. We have no ambition to become like Jan Björklund. Frankly, Jan Björklund : Go back to your sources. I don't know who helped you dig this out. Speaking of separating people from their missions, I think I'd cut that researcher off from his missions. You're slipping on the truth something tremendous in this. Check out what it is you're standing here saying before you call people ugly things. That's what you do, even if it's indirect. You're standing here saying people are racists or anti-Semites. They're not. Check your sources! You do it. Don't put any official on it. Look at it, and then come to me and tell me it was honest. I don't think you will.
i-1989b43a840098c9-326	Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats believe that the government is spending far too much money in its budget this year in the midst of a boom. We agree with that view in the Alliance, and many expert authorities share that view. It sounded at Jimmie Åkesson at the beginning of his speech like he also agrees. But in your budget you want to spend almost as much as the government, Jimmie Åkesson. You want to do this despite the fact that you want to make significant savings in the labour market of EUR 45 billion net without offering people alternatives. You want to close down the well-functioning new start jobs but do not offer an alternative. What are all those who are in a new job today going to do? Does Jimmie Åkesson even know how many people currently have a new start job? Do you know how much of those who have a new start job go to a real job afterwards?
i-1989b43a840098c9-328	Mr President, I would like to We are making about the same assessment as I think we should do as the opposition party. This government is on fire. It's whale freckles. It is not necessarily responsible in any sense. If you listen to how other institutions assess the economic situation, we do not have 40 billion in the space of reform, but it is considerably lower. The Alliance wants to bet $30 billion. It is a rather modest reduction towards the government's budget, and we are somewhere in between. It's always a matter of judgment. It is also a question of how to use the money you spend. I think we agree that the government is investing a great deal in grants and other things. We are investing in things that are job creation, small and medium-sized enterprises, tax cuts for ordinary people and so on. In my view, this is an investment which, unlike, for example, large increases in subsidies, can still be costed in this kind of economic situation.
i-1989b43a840098c9-331	Mr President, I would like to The question was about the fresh start jobs. We Christian Democrats want to clean up the labour market programmes. We invest in other things in our budget. What you are doing is you are cutting off 45 billion net and have no answer as to where the 40 000 who today have new start jobs will go tomorrow if your budget should go through, Jimmie Åkesson. Did you count on the effect of that? I don't think so. I do not think the Swedish Democrats are counting on any negative effects at all. You're cutting 45 billion net. Over the years in this House we have heard about preparedness jobs, trainee services, new start jobs and so on. What the Swedish Democrats seem to suggest would perhaps be called magical jobs. It takes a wand to get them. It is a pity, Mr President, that the Nobel Prize in Economics has already been announced this year. If this were to work in practice, Jimmie Åkesson would be a candidate.
i-1989b43a840098c9-334	Mr President, I would like to It would have been hard, because I can't go to the party!
i-1989b43a840098c9-335	With all due respect, Andreas Carlson : Andreas Carlson always pulls out some single thing in our budget, and then he makes a big issue of it. We want to do a lot of things to create jobs, real jobs. New start jobs, just like all the other different jobs – stand-by jobs, trainee jobs, cheer-hop jobs and a lot of different types of pretend jobs – are designed because immigration policy has failed. One must somehow hide all those people in the statistics, and then you come up with new names for old reforms that have never worked. I don't believe in that policy. That is why we want to abolish it. It hasn't worked. Those who have fresh start jobs don't come out in real jobs. That is why we want to invest heavily in job creation instead. They can read about Andreas Carlson and everyone else here in our draft budget, which is available on the Internet, for example.
i-1989b43a840098c9-338	Mr President, I would like to When Trump tries to pull the US out of the Paris Agreement, Sweden's voice is more important than ever. The world looks at us for inspiration, pressure and leadership. Then it's sad when politicians stick their heads in the sand. How we face the climate threat is the yardstick our children will judge us from. In the opening round, my colleagues did not even devote 1 in 40 minutes to the environment. Five parties, from the Left Party to the far right, did not have a word to say about the environment. One species dies an hour. But there are worryingly many ostriches in a Swedish party leader debate. We have a choice between aircraft having to pay their environmental costs or making it more expensive to commute trains, between increasing our organic farming or Sweden becoming more dependent on buying food from other countries. The bourgeois and SD want to stop targets on ecofood. We have a choice between connecting Sweden with fast trains or more lanes on the highway, between cleaning up the debris in the oceans or just watching when there is more plastic than fish in our seas. Several bourgeois want to cut into the government's efforts in the clean sea. We have a choice between living up to the promises and paying our environmental debt to poor countries or cutting the aid that the Moderates demand, between building new green neighborhoods or just housing rights for those with the thickest wallets. The bourgeois and SD want to completely abolish the investment in cheap rental and student housing. We have a choice between investing in building the world's first fossil-free welfare country or cutting the environmental budget as proposed by the Center, the other bourgeois and the Swedish Democrats. There's a choice. The environmental policy that now inspires the world has been fought for in the Green Party. We've got time to wait. Climate change is happening now. This is where we have to act. It's the planet first.
i-1989b43a840098c9-343	Mr President, I would like to Last week SCB presented figures showing that climate emissions are increasing in Sweden by 830 000 tonnes. This is much more than the emissions from the whole of domestic aviation. I think it created some life and movement within the Green Party. What those figures show in black and white is that their policies are not working. During the Alliance's time, emissions decreased steadily, but these developments have now reversed. The environment cares about results. The environmental party's mistake is that they have the wrong focus. They engage in symbolic politics and hunt travelers and rural people instead of pursuing emissions. The Environmental Party's election manifesto states that they want to reduce the Swedish climate emissions to sustainable levels and take responsibility for what we hand over to our children and grandchildren. I would therefore like to ask Gustav Fridolin: Does he think that that electoral promise is fulfilled?
i-1989b43a840098c9-346	Mr President, I would like to I'm glad Annie Lööf reads our election manifesto. That's what I fight every day. The latest figures show a reduction in emissions. But as everyone who follows climate policy knows, it is impossible to break out a quarter or a year to understand where we are going. No matter how you count, it's going too slow. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is now assessing that, with the policy being pursued, we are about to reach the closest climate target – that for 2020. But when you do what SCB does and count your flight, the numbers get worse. That is precisely why we must dare to put a tax on flying. When you take the car from Gothenburg to Stockholm you pay 200 SEK in different taxes, but so far it is completely tax-free to take the flight – the most environmentally friendly way of travel and the way that is mainly used by those with the highest income. How can you continue to tax-exempt flights, Annie Lööf?
i-1989b43a840098c9-350	Mr President, I would like to Emissions are now increasing, and it is Gustav Fridolin's party that has the Ministry of the Environment. But what I hear is mainly declarations of intent and attacks on other parties. Gustav Fridolin seems to be more occupied with the policy of the Center Party than his own. He should spend a little more time on it. Even counting off aviation does not reduce emissions. They did so from 1990 to 2014. Now they are increasing in Environmental Party Sweden. I know it's troubling, Gustav Fridolin. The Center Party does not support ineffective proposals. The airline tax would reduce emissions by 3 per mille. It's not effective. We have other proposals to change the flight. Among other things, we want to replace fossil fuels in aviation with biofuels. Again: No matter how you count, climate emissions have stopped reducing in Environmental Party Sweden. Why is emissions not reduced when the Green Party rules?
i-1989b43a840098c9-354	Mr President, I would like to Let us take this one more time: the most recent figures point to a reduction. The Environmental Protection Agency, the expert authority that monitors whether we meet our environmental targets or not, says that when you handed over, we were about to completely miss the emissions targets by 2020. Now it looks like we have plugged this emission gap and will be able to reach our 2020 emission targets. But that's not enough. We have to do more. Then we will not escape the fact that environmental policy is about concrete, real decisions – yes and no. It's about choices. One such choice is whether or not air transport should pay environmental taxes like other modes of transport. Of course we should involve biofuels in the tank. But every scientist who has looked at this says that it takes time, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, it is not enough. It must also be about tying Sweden together with fast trains and allowing flights to pay their costs, as other modes of transport do. Ulf Kristersson has promised that the first thing he does if he becomes Prime Minister is to make domestic flights cheaper again. It would be a major environmental weakness.
i-1989b43a840098c9-357	Mr President and Gustav Fridolin! I must say that I agree with you in the debate with the bourgeois; it is a little remarkable that parties with such low levels of ambition in climate policy make a point of increasing emissions as they rise due to the boom. That's what it's all about, isn't it? At the same time, it is worrying that emissions are so high and do not decrease faster. The planet requires more of us. It's just like that. We have put forward a number of proposals for the election on our election platform. It's about green investment bank, changing the pension system and other things. We have also put forward a proposal that from 2025 all new passenger cars sold in Sweden will be powered by renewable fuels. We believe that it is necessary to take proper action to change Sweden so that emissions are reduced and fossil dependence is broken. How does the Green Party view it? Is there something that we could agree on – that from 2025 those who need the car should drive with renewable fuel?
i-1989b43a840098c9-361	Mr President, I would like to What really happened, Jonas Sjöstedt? When you were elected, we were many, not least in your own party, who expected us to have a vote in the Swedish environmental debate. Now it's been two hours and 15 minutes of the debate, and the first time you have reason to raise the environmental issue is when you get to meet an environmental party. One can imagine what would happen if Jonas didn't meet environmental parties from time to time. In Almedalen you had half an hour to present your most important questions and those of the Left Party. You happened to mention the environment a little bit in passing. This is the biggest issue we face. This must then be important for the Left Party and for all other parties, not just when debating against environmentalists. I shall now turn to your specific question. Yes, in the future, all cars will go on 100 percent renewable or electricity.
i-1989b43a840098c9-364	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say that there are two parties in the Swedish Parliament that have a climate policy that takes this issue seriously. It's the Green Party, and it's the Left Party. Which is sharpest, we can argue about in the upcoming election debates. The problem is not that we are too many, but that we are too few to have this insight. But I think that we too sometimes have problems in finding policies that are moving towards zero emissions quickly enough. We have a number of concrete proposals that would go far beyond what the government is doing today. It is about changing the economy, the social structure, state enterprises, investments and other things, and also phasing out fossil fuels. My question was somewhat more concrete than your answer, Gustav Fridolin. The question is about 2025. Isn't it time to set a year? If so, what year does the Green Party want to say? Talking a lot is not the only way to weigh up what climate policy you have. It could also be about what actual proposals are being made.
i-1989b43a840098c9-367	Mr President, I would like to We would like to guarantee that the cars sold within the EU can go on 100% renewable already during the next term of office. We see that this development must be achieved. We have carried out the change of fuel, which means that we are gradually getting more and more renewable into the tank so that all cars are constantly getting a little greener regardless of when they are bought. That's exactly what we have to do. We must reduce emissions through concrete measures. We will also introduce environmental zones in Swedish cities. That is what Ulf Kristersson did not know what it was in the party leader debate last Sunday. It is again an argument for why the environmental issue should come up harder. Environmental zones mean shutting out the cars that emit such emissions that children get sick from breathing air from certain zones in our cities. In Stockholm, a completely united municipal board wants to introduce these, and we will give the opportunity to do so. We must make this transition. I answered your question, Jonas Sjöstedt. But I'd like to argue more about which is the greenest party. I therefore hope that you and all the other colleagues can promise that you will not continue to forget the environmental issue. You've had seven minutes and several lines before you met me, and not once did you mention the environmental issue.
i-1989b43a840098c9-370	Mr President, I would like to It has been two hours and 15 minutes of the debate, and the country's Education Minister has hardly mentioned the word education.
i-1989b43a840098c9-371	A lot of people understand why. Fridolin had an enormous profile in opposition. Everything the Alliance government did was wrong. Everything was wrong. He barked, and he voted against everything. When PISA, the evaluation of the students' results, came a few months after the turn of the government, it turned out that Sweden rose in the results for the first time in several decades due to the Alliance's reforms – those that Fridolin had barked out. Fridolin was met with high expectations. Nowadays it's mostly a smile when Fridolin's name comes up in the learning rooms. Sweden now has more than 17 percent failed students in grade 9. It's all-time-high. There have never been as many failed students in grade 9 as this year, Gustav Fridolin. You have eleven months left as Minister of Education. What are you gonna do?
i-1989b43a840098c9-373	Mr President, I would like to I note that in the ratings that came we can see that in the largest group we have better results now than we had in 2014, when Jan Björklund handed over. But the figures show that inequality is increasing. Inequality is increasing depending on where you were born, and inequality is increasing depending on the parents' educational background. Where we used to be the best in Sweden and where we only had in the early 2000s one of the world's best school systems is where we have fallen. That's where we have to come back. In our draft budget, we are spending EUR 6 billion on precisely those schools that are in the toughest position. When I read the bourgeois draft budget, Jan Björklund's draft budget, I see that he is cutting it off. If your budget were to go through in this House, it would mean that schools in some of Sweden's toughest areas would start next semester by firing new staff, Jan Björklund. Students who really need it would have less time with their teachers. How could it improve results and equality, Jan Björklund?
i-1989b43a840098c9-377	Mr President, I would like to To put it on record, I would just like to say that the Liberals' school budget is the most ambitious one that any party of the eight that exists in this House has in terms of primary and secondary school. Fridolin says the gaps are increasing in school. That's right, that's what I'm saying. After all, when 17% is failing instead of 13%, the gap has increased, and this has happened under the Ministry of Education of Fridolin. This is what you were supposed to do in 100 days, but everything is going the wrong way, Gustav Fridolin. You don't even talk about school. I think it's great that you're involved in climate issues, and you might have become an even better climate minister. But where you are now, you're responsible for the school's performance, and they're sinking. There have never been more failed than now, Gustav Fridolin. You went to elections in 2014 on a announcement that was quite popular in the teaching staff, because you said: Look, Björklund and the government have done so much reform – we are going to have a reform stop. That's what you said, and that's the only promise you've kept, because there's absolutely nothing happening.
i-1989b43a840098c9-380	Mr President, I would like to When I took office, 10 000 fewer worked in Swedish schools than when Jan Björklund became Minister of Education eight years earlier. In recent years 20 000 more have been hired. The teacher density is moving in the right direction in a situation where we have a serious shortage of teachers. Children's groups in preschool are the smallest in 25 years. It lays the foundation for better results and for breaking inequality. When students don't get enough time with their teachers, when teachers are forced to rush from one lesson to another without having that opportunity for a conversation with a student who needs it, and when there is no special teacher who can help someone who has difficulty learning to read, write or count—that's when inequality grows. And no matter how you turn it, you left a school where you had cut it down. Instead, we have invested and hired. It lays the foundation, but we must continue. That is why our draft budget contains EUR 6 billion. That is exactly what the School Commission, the profession and research have been calling for, and that money cuts the Liberals away. You can't get away from that.
i-1989b43a840098c9-383	Mr President, I would like to It can be seen that Gustav Fridolin is proud of the environmental efforts in the government's budget – at last for the Green Party, one may say, because it took a while for MP to get paid. We had to swallow a rapprochement with NATO and the sale of coal – I do not know, by the way, whether the coal bit that we saw in this House went on sale or where it went, but it was at least a few years ago that it was here – and now comes the environmental effort. When Gustav Fridolin mentions the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency as an expert authority to the government, he forgets to mention the Institute of Economics, which is also an expert authority to the government and which saw the government's environmental efforts: They are hesitant, ill-considered, costly, ineffective and also counterproductive. It's devastating criticism. You deliver project money that will not lead to reduced emissions. It is an unserious climate policy. We Christian Democrats stand for a strong green tax shift that will reduce emissions.
i-1989b43a840098c9-386	Mr President, I would like to In fact, it looks like that piece of coal is allowed to stay in the ground, after all. That's very good, because that's what ultimately counts. We can't get all the way. We've taken fights, but we haven't won them all, but we took them when it came to Vattenfall's coal mines. That's when we got back to work. In the EU, Isabella Lövin pushed through a very ambitious increase in the emissions trading system, which has actually raised the price of emissions so much that it looks like those coal mines that we wanted to stop are not going to happen. That's really good, because that's what ultimately decides. We are implementing climate change: climate investments across the country that reduce emissions by 20 million tonnes. We are introducing air tax which reduces emissions by the equivalent of 100 000 passenger cars. That is an effective policy. One might ask how effective it is with the Christian Democrats model. You're cutting out of the environmental budget. You are not saying that you should spend the money on some other environmental investment that you think is more effective, but you cut it off, you reduce the money. It is clear that with less money there will be less climate work. How effective is it?
i-1989b43a840098c9-390	Mr President, I would like to I note that Gustav Fridolin does not care to mention the stinging criticism that the government's efforts receive. It is not more effective to spend more money on inefficient climate investments, is it? It is not a question of spending as much tax money as possible on as many inefficient climate investments as possible. Subsidies to electric bicycles, for example, are a completely meaningless bet. Sales are already record-breaking every year. The industry is growing. From one year to another, sales of electric bicycles increase by 50 percent. This is where the Green Party wants to go with more tax money. We say 'no' to that priority; we have other priorities. Politics is precisely about prioritising. When we say no to the Green Party's and the government's inefficient climate initiatives, we have a green tax shift and use the space to prioritise what we think is most important right now: the crisis in health care and care where we spend 27.5 billion more than the government to turn the welfare weak that also Gustav Fridolin is responsible for.
i-1989b43a840098c9-393	Mr President, I would like to So if you spend more money on care for the elderly, it makes a difference, but if you spend less money on environmental policy, nothing happens? If you had had the same reasoning on effectiveness in all other policy areas, you would have put a budget in which you also cut down on the police to make it more effective, cut down on the defence so that we would have a better defence and cut down on the elderly so that it became as good as Christian Democrats are passionate about. Of course something happens when you cut away. All the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats cut the environmental budget. There will be fewer environmental measures in a situation when everyone knows that we would have to do more and not the other way around. Climate change means that emissions are reduced by more than 20 million tonnes of carbon dioxide. Aviation tax means that we reduce emissions by the equivalent of 100 000 passenger cars. I think everyone understands that for everyone who has the opportunity to get out of the car queue and instead take an e-bike just the distance that you need to commute yourself, there will be a little less emissions than it would otherwise be. That is not the solution for everyone. We must also invest in public transport, not least in rural areas, but for those for whom it is a solution, it plays a role in emissions.
i-1989b43a840098c9-396	Mr President, I would like to We have now heard the government representatives one by one – Stefan Löfven, Gustav Fridolin and Jonas Sjöstedt – beating their chests. Having heard the praises of the donors of all good gifts, I can only say that the problem with the policies of the Social Democrats is that one day they will put an end to other people's money. On that day, the Swedish economy is in trouble. Right now, Sweden is on top of a boom. Sweden is highlighted by strong international growth. Jobs have increased, and this has happened despite, not thanks to, government policy. When the economy goes well and when growth increases, it should be every responsible politician's reflex to want to save for when times get worse. A reading tip to the government is the Conjunkturinstitutet's massive criticism that came yesterday. But the government is turning a deaf ear. The government does not build Sweden stronger through radical changes that open up the labour market and give companies increased opportunities to hire and that would give more people living in vulnerable conditions a job. The government does not take the integration challenge seriously. Here the budget is empty of measures. Mr President, I would like to Let me also respond to the Social Democrats' own history of their own excellence. In 1976, the Center Party and Thorbjörn Fälldin had to clean up after the Social Democrats' increased taxes on companies that caused businesses to close down and unemployment to rise. Throughout the 1980s it was only in one year that the state budget went in surplus. In 1991, when the bourgeoisie took over, the economy was in free fall. The reason that bourgeois governments have had to start by turning deficits into surpluses is that we must constantly clean up after sossars who cannot hold the money. Finally, the Alliance reduced the tax on ordinary wage earners in 2006 – 2014, but we invested 100 billion more in the core of welfare education, health care and care.
i-1989b43a840098c9-401	Mr President, I would like to On 19 January this year Anna Kinberg Batra announced that the Moderates would leave their previous position not to approach the Swedish Democrats. Since then, the Moderates have been in free fall in opinion, and chaos prevails in the former Alliance. Annie Lööf has, however, said, like us Social Democrats, that she excludes all kinds of collaboration with the Swedish Democrats or that she intends to make herself dependent on the support of the Swedish Democrats to form a government. That seems to me to be a decent line, and it also seems to have given a boost to the voter-opinion. Now I would like to ask Annie Lööf: Is your decision not to form a government with the support of the Swedish Democrats still valid, and will it also apply after next year's elections?
i-1989b43a840098c9-404	Mr President, I would like to That question is constantly asked by Stefan Löfven. It's true that I'm a person who keeps what I say. I don't do what Stefan Löfven does. He proposes one day to the Swedish Democrats to get their support to get their policies through and stands in the speaker's seat here in the Chamber on the second day and calls them completely useless. That line is dishonest. I want to replace Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister and make Ulf Kristersson the next Prime Minister in Sweden and form an alliance government. If there is a party that is in free fall, not only in polls but also on election days, it is the Social Democrats. This has been the case in every European country that has had elections in the last year. It would be more dressy with humility in the face of this difficult question, Stefan Löfven.
i-1989b43a840098c9-407	Mr President, I would like to It's the election in Sweden next autumn we're talking about now, Annie Lööf. I would like to believe that you do not want to make yourself dependent on the Swedish Democrats. At the same time, however, it does not stand up hard for block politics. In fact, here you must choose your strategy. It is an important prerequisite for what the work in this House should be like. Much suggests that the parliamentary situation after next year's elections will not be very different from now. Let's see. The voters will have their say. But if that's the way it is, you'll actually have to choose. Either you break block politics or stand up for block politics. And if so, you must expect the support of the Swedish Democrats. My question to Annie Lööf is: What is your choice? Should we break the block policy and make sure to settle cross-border, or should you seek support from the Swedish Democrats?
i-1989b43a840098c9-411	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party will not negotiate, cooperate or sit in a government that requires the support of the Swedish Democrats. I've said that time and time again. But in Swedish political debate it always sounds like the Social Democrats and Stefan Löfven are the sun that everything should revolve around. Stefan Lövven's ambitions for power are clear. Block-cross-border cooperation only applies when he himself is allowed to sit as Prime Minister, regardless of the progress of the Social Democrats in an election. I would like to see cross-block cooperation and Stefan Löfven supporting an alliance government after the next elections, should an alliance government need more support. I want to replace Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister. I want to form a strong alliance government. If that alliance government needs more support in order to be able to rule and get its budget through, I say no to picking that support from the Swedish Democrats. Then the co-worker Stefan Löfven will be happy to support an alliance government.
i-1989b43a840098c9-414	Mr President, I would like to Folkfest i Värnamo which now becomes the world's first city where the entire bus network goes on electricity through charging hybrid buses – you wrote that, Annie Lööf, when you were home in Värnamo and celebrated the modernisation of the home town. We've talked about this before. But there's still one thing that hurts. What Värnamo did and does is investment for the future, which we pay together. Värnamo has applied for and received government money from the Climate Centre and the urban environment agreements. But when you went up to Stockholm you presented a budget motion in which you suggest that the very investments that Värnamo has used should be stopped. That's what the Center's cutbacks on the environment are all about. With less money, there will be less climate work. You can't get away from it. I have to ask, just so I understand correctly: You thought it was good that Värnamo got government money to rebuild and modernise. Why don't you and the Center want other cities to be able to do the same?
i-1989b43a840098c9-417	Mr President, I would like to I almost hoped that question would come. Those who follow the debate know that I come from Värnamo and have quite clear links with those who rule in Värnamo. It is a centre-controlled municipality in a centre- and alliance-led region. I know them well and know that the initiative was already financed by municipal and regional tax money. The new bus services would be introduced, even without the Climate Tree. But then came the opportunity to seek money from the Climate Tree. And they did it. This is a clear example of what the Institute of Economic Affairs says is the inefficient use of tax funds. The Institute of Economics says that Climate change risks being a costly blow in the air and shows serious shortcomings in the design of the aid. The electric buses had become a reality in Värnamo and Jönköping County even without the Climate Klivet. We're not too inefficient. We are too good, result-oriented efforts that reduce emissions and lead to more renewable energy.
i-1989b43a840098c9-422	Mr President, I would like to There we are again, Annie Lööf. So it is not in the way that in the Center's budget motion you move environmental investments that you dislike to other environmental initiatives that you think are better. You're cutting back on environmental efforts. There will be less money for the environment with the Center's budget exercise. And with less money, of course, there will be fewer investments. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency estimates that the climate life in total – calculated on what would happen even without the Climate Centre – produces emission reductions of over 20 million tonnes of carbon dioxide. Värnamo Municipality has received SEK 60 million through Climate Change and urban environment agreements. It's a lot more than just the electric buses. Of course the buses were planned. But what you have managed to do then is really take leadership, set an example, rebuild the whole center and make much bigger investments than was planned from the beginning. That's good. That's wise thought by Värnamo's councillor. It's something Värnamo should be proud of. But that would not have happened without state resources.
i-1989b43a840098c9-424	Mr President, I would like to The councillor is my father, and I think my father is wiser than you are, Gustav Fridolin. Värnamo Municipality has been centre-controlled since the 1970s. We are at the forefront in terms of sustainability and environmentally sound investments. We know that order in the economy and a good local economy make it possible to invest in school and care, but also in the environment and sustainability. It's important. Some parts of the climate range are good, such as charging poles and biogas. The Center Party is also included in the budget. But the inefficient efforts are not included, precisely because of what the Institute of Economic Development says about lack of cost-effectiveness and that there is a risk of support being given to investments that would still have taken place, as in Värnamo, for example.
i-1989b43a840098c9-427	Mr President, I would like to Annie Lööf! First of all, I want to thank you for appointing me government representative. It's more than Stefan Löfven's been able to do. I think it was a bit daring to quote Margaret Thatcher. That's what I thought you'd avoid. But you didn't this time. I do not think your policy should be confused too much. But your proposal to lower wages is a direct attack on people's chances of living good lives. If the lowest wages are reduced, you can't make a living. If the salary is reduced for some, it will lower the salary for all. There's a kind of market logic in it. Say that you lower the salary for redheads in Sweden, to 70 percent of other people's salary. Is it not the case, then, that we, who are a bit grey-haired, have to go down in wages to compete for jobs? As a result, wage cuts are spreading. Your proposal on wage cuts risks putting pressure on the wages of those who are already in the toughest position today.
i-1989b43a840098c9-431	Mr President, I would like to It is always the most pity for the white gray-haired men in Jonas Sjöstedt's world. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, This is a very serious issue raised by Jonas Sjöstedt. It is about how we will ensure that the vulnerable, those who today live on low subsidies and who are soon a permanent underclass dependent on subsidies in Sweden, will get up on the track. How will they get their own salary, be able to pay the bills and feel part of Swedish society? Well, I think we need to work more on the apprenticeship model. I think you have to have a combination of education and pay and learn the job at work. That's why the Alliance has proposed admission. I know that the parties are discussing this. That's good. The best thing would be for the parties themselves to agree on a lower starting salary and for you to learn at work, in order to give those who today are outside a chance to get in and feel secure. Would Jonas Sjöstedt support such a model if the parties came up with a slightly lower starting salary for those who currently live on low subsidies to have a higher income of their own?
i-1989b43a840098c9-436	Mr President, I would like to If it is a combination of work and education, I think those jobs are needed in different ways. The parties are, of course, free to negotiate on this. It may be good to find solutions. However, in your proposal, Annie Lööf, there is no requirement for education. It's just a cut in pay. There is no programme for people to acquire qualifications and then move on, but it is a mere poverty trap. There is also another important thing. I think it is good that trade unions and employers should settle their salaries. I think it is bad if the state takes over and starts to decide the salaries of people around Sweden. This is not just a departure but an attack on the fact that we have trade unions and employers negotiating wages and conditions. Annie Lööf! Why are you better at putting wages than unions and employers are in negotiations?
i-1989b43a840098c9-440	Mr President, I would like to I'm not. This is done by the parties by putting their pay into various collective agreements. What we say about the entry jobs is that it should be a slightly lower salary – 70% of the agreed entry salary. It is one way of giving those who currently live in extreme vulnerability, with low benefits, opportunities and opportunities to enter the labour market. I get so tired when you have this debate over people's heads. You guys on the left are talking about this cutting everyone's wages. It's not someone who gets reduced pay. Anyone who receives a salary receives a significantly higher income than it has had years in and years out in Left Party Sweden. I think this is a reform of justice. It's about solidarity. It's about these people getting into and feeling part of Swedish society and being involved in working for a more successful Sweden. I'm not gonna close the door for them. Then we must turn and turn the stones and let the parties take that responsibility. If they don't, we're ready to get to work. We can't have it like this, people living in vulnerability.
i-1989b43a840098c9-444	Mr President, I would like to Swedish alliance freedom is a model of success and something that has enabled our country to remain outside wars and conflicts and, above all, to have an independent foreign policy. We have been a vote for disarmament for peace. Swedish foreign policy has during the post-war period been able to criticise abuses both in the East and the West and in other countries. It is a tried and tested success which, unfortunately, is now being dismantled. We are already seeing how adaptation to NATO affects Swedish policy. The host country agreement and the extensive exercises with NATO troops on Swedish soil mean that the outside world increasingly perceives us as a NATO country, and it takes the liberty to begin dictating our foreign policy. The United States is now firmly saying that Sweden should not support a ban on nuclear weapons in the UN. It would have been unthinkable if, for a few decades, a Socialist government were told not to support a ban on nuclear weapons. However, I believe that such a government had, in any case, moved on to such a ban. Now the issue is buried in an investigation because it is moving towards NATO adaptation. We can also see this on the bourgeois side, where the freer foreign policy has rarely been represented. The rhetoric is being adapted to NATO membership. The abuse and violation of international law by the Putin regime are rightly criticised – there is no doubt that this criticism should be clear and clear on the part of Sweden – but in Erdo 中 ans Turkey the same thing happens. Then the bourgeois parties are silent because it is a NATO country. That's where you lay low. Then you don't want to offend and not have conflicts. Here we are already seeing how NATO adaptation threatens much of the best and finest in Swedish foreign policy tradition.
i-1989b43a840098c9-447	Mr President, I would like to I was going to return to Reepalu and to the issue of threats to freedom of choice in welfare. I know that there are many wise Social Democrats – both nationally and locally – who are fundamentally sceptical about the whole idea of stopping private welfare companies. I also know that one must ultimately take responsibility for the company that one seeks. The government has deliberately put itself in a situation where it stands for what it stands for and receives criticism for this. But it is the Left Party that has pushed this forward, as everyone knows, and not least you yourselves. It is you who drive this hard. You have pushed forward a bill that we will only finally reject in order to keep this matter clean. The question that I think many people are asking themselves, not least Social Democrats but also us, is: what question will you next make conditional upon supporting a Social Democratic minority government?
i-1989b43a840098c9-450	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ulf Kristersson, for a really interesting question! First of all, I would like to say that I agree with you that it is thanks to the Left Party that this model is now being developed. We should not be the only country in the world where it is free to pick out money that would have gone students and teachers to put them in their own pocket. We're not supposed to have maternity wards or health centers that go bankrupt. I am proud of the fact that we in the Left Party have put forward a concrete proposal to make a well-being depend on and for tax money to be spent in concrete and correct ways. Then Ulf Kristersson asks what we will say next time that we want to have implemented to negotiate, for example, a budget or whether we are in a government. Yes, we will present that in due course, you will be sure of that. That time has passed – and it will never come back – when we supported a social democratic budget without having influenced and steered politics. Ulf Kristersson can be absolutely sure of that. When the list comes, you too will see it.
i-1989b43a840098c9-454	Mr President, I would like to I'm sure it'll shock us all, including supposed government partners. But the issue certainly has a general interest. A party of your kind gains influence by subjecting itself to a small Social Democratic government. Then it becomes an interest that goes far beyond the demands of the Left Party itself. That is why you can look at the proposals that you usually make. Is it a six-hour working day and simply reduce the amount of work in the Swedish economy? Is it violent increases in public spending that make it harder for us to face the next recession? Is this about traditional left-wing economic policy? Is it the tax policy of the Left Party with further increases in marginal taxes for people who train and work? It has a general interest for you to ease your excuses and describe roughly what a Social Democratic government leader has to expect when trying to form a majority even though one lacks one.
i-1989b43a840098c9-457	Mr President, I would like to What does Harmagedon look like waiting for us after the next election? In fact, one can look at our policy and see what it is too terrible that awaits us. It could be free glasses for children. It can be free medicines for those who are 85 years of age or older. It could be an extra billion to the maternity care so that it can finally be trusted. It may be that children who do not have such rich parents may go on the bus for free and be able to swim in the summer. It could be lowering taxes for low-income earners. There is quite a lot to choose from if you look at what we get through in the budget negotiations. But what I think Ulf Kristersson should think about is: If we demand this, what will Jimmie Åkesson demand if he lets you out, if he does what you want, if he can be kingmaker? He'll be knocking on your door the next day. Then it will probably not be free glasses for children, better delivery or free medications for the oldest. There is someone else you want to make yourself dependent on, Kristersson. I think you should think about that.
i-1989b43a840098c9-459	Mr President, I would like to In addition to the Left Party's hostility towards entrepreneurship, there is an area where you are very creative, and it is about taxes. Now the government is raising taxes for small savers. With the policy of the Left Party, the assistant nurse will pay more in taxes on the money he saves from his salary and on the buffer he tries to build up. That is the exact consequence of the government's now increasing tax on investment savings accounts. Then 1.8 million savers will be taxed. It is about the assistant nurse, about the nurse who takes responsibility and saves up for the pension, about the student who puts away money from the extra job, about the pensioner who puts away money every month for the grandchild. These are the ones who are affected.
i-1989b43a840098c9-461	Mr President, I would like to This debate concerns the so-called ISK accounts, i.e. capital income. The average ISK saver has less than SEK 50,000 in his account. What, then, is the amount of tax that happens to them? Well, hold on now. 37 kroner a year. It is the terrible thing that affects those who are above average. That's about as much as you want to reduce the salary by an hour for the low-paid, every hour, every day, every week, every month. It's about proportions, Annie Lööf. That's if you're going to pay a few tens more in capital tax than you want to lower your salary equally for a poor person an hour. I think it says a lot about you. In addition, the higher the income, the larger the wealth, the fatter the ISK account. This is a tax aimed at capital income, especially for those who have a good economy.
i-1989b43a840098c9-464	Mr President, I would like to It is usually said that Jonas Sjöstedt is a skilled rhetoricalist, but remember: We do not want to reduce wages. Those who receive an apprentice's salary go from a low allowance to a higher own income. This is about the savings of ordinary small savers. It usually increases taxes on what you want less of, such as environmental pollution. But you're raising the tax on savings. What is so morally wrong with saving for your pension or for your grandchildren? It's not about an elite, it's about ordinary people with regular incomes. There may be a few tens in Left Party Sweden, but the principle of taxing savings higher is remarkable. People fight every month. Then you will charge additional taxes from the nurse's savings. Left parties claim to be a party for solidarity and justice. I therefore ask Jonas Sjöstedt again: in what way does Sweden become more fair and solidarity-based so that the savings of the nurse and 2 million people are taxed more heavily?
i-1989b43a840098c9-467	Mr President, I would like to Yes, the assistant nurse who has 50,000 in an ISK account – there are not so many nurses who do, I'll say – will then have to pay 37 SEK more in tax per year. But she gets over a thousand in reduced tax when we reintroduce the right to deduct the trade union fee. That's our distribution profile. I think it is reasonable, what we are doing – that we are taxing income from capital more. It is reasonable to tax income that is not based on work more. But we are reducing taxes on labour by reintroducing the right to deduct, and we are reducing taxes on pensions, i.e. deferred work. We are removing the tax gap for pensioners created by the bourgeoisie. It is a fair tax policy; I am 100% responsible for it. And yes, Annie Lööf, you're cutting wages. You are prepared to make state intervention to reduce wages, and it will not only affect those who receive lower wages. It will affect many low-paid people in the Swedish labour market. You have made a major, decisive mistake by going so far to the right.
i-1989b43a840098c9-470	Mr President, I would like to I listened to the previous line between Jonas Sjöstedt and Gustav Fridolin about who wants to call himself greenest or what it was. The measures you have debated are interesting to me. It is interesting, this more stringent regulation of exhaust gases presented by Jonas Sjöstedt. I suppose we all have reason to think about that. But the truth is that the really big emissions in our part of the world, they do not come from Sweden. They come from many other countries in Europe, not least the obsolete industrial park of old Eastern Europe. Now, after all these years, there is finally a proposal on the table for a European carbon tax. Finally! And it is not from anyone, but from the President of France, with the support of the Chancellor of Germany. If this proposal were implemented, it would have a greater impact on our climate than any of the other proposals we are discussing in this House. But then the Left Party says no. Why?
i-1989b43a840098c9-473	Mr President, I would like to After all, I have spent eleven years in the European Parliament negotiating much of the EU's environmental legislation in conciliations with the Council of Ministers. I was also present when we voted on the proposal on emissions trading, which I was rather sceptical about because I thought it would be insufficient. Unfortunately, it has proved to be. Instead, we proposed that the Member States agree on a minimum tax on carbon dioxide. Not to give the EU the right to tax, because I do not want to, but there can be an intergovernmental agreement to lay a floor. I think we should do that, and we should not be content with Europe. We will invite other European countries. We are also going to extend this across the world, because CO2 taxation is effective. It's something that actually works. So I am in favour of such taxation, and I have been in favour of it for a long time. I also think that consideration should be given to how to find other international forms of taxation, for example for aviation, by changing the outdated conventions that exist in order to be able to charge environmental taxation on aircraft as well. On the other hand, I am not in favour of giving the EU tax rights. It is a step on the road to turning Europe into a federation, and I do not want that.
i-1989b43a840098c9-476	Mr President, I would like to Now there is something I do not quite understand, Jonas Sjöstedt. Maybe it's not so surprising to you that I don't, but still. That sounded good, what you said. You want a European carbon tax. There is only one organisation in Europe that can introduce it, and that is Europe. We can call it intergovernmental; it doesn't matter what we call it. It is within the European system that it must happen. But Jonas Sjöstedt wants Sweden to leave the EU. How are we supposed to influence that? How can we contribute to the introduction of a European carbon tax if we implement Jonas Sjöstedt's policy of leaving the EU? How are we gonna do that?
i-1989b43a840098c9-479	Mr President, I would like to Now I'll tell Jan Björklund something amazing: There are countries that cooperate with each other that are not in the EU. Actually, that's the way it is, around the world. Before Sweden joined the EU, we cooperated with the Nordic countries in a way that was in many ways more far-reaching than EU cooperation. I think that such intergovernmental cooperation between democracies – for the environment, for human rights and too much else – is absolutely necessary. What I dislike about the EU system – I do not dislike everything about it, because it is a rather complex issue – is the lack of democracy. It is the ambition to form a federal state, and that is to put companies' rights above those such as the environment and social rights.
i-1989b43a840098c9-481	Mr President, I would like to The Left takes credit for much of the government's budget. But when Jonas Sjöstedt takes credit for all-on-all policies, he must also take responsibility for all those who get caught. Around the country, support is now being hijacked within the LSS. In Kalmar, a mentally ill woman's assistance is shortened from 231 hours per week to one hour and 13 minutes. Autistic Niclas in Mullsjö has previously had 165 hours of assistance a week. Now it's going to be two and a half hours. Monika in Sandviken has had LSS support for over 20 years. Now it can be pulled in completely. Every day, the assistance is hijacked for just over two people despite an alleged reform space of 40 billion. It is too many people to go from full-time to zero time. The fact that this may continue to happen is supported by Jonas Sjöstedt because there is no effort in the budget to increase the support within LSS. We invest 3.3 billion, Jonas Sjöstedt zero.
i-1989b43a840098c9-484	Mr President, I would like to First of all, let me say that I agree with you, Andreas Carlson, that we have made many good reforms – about eighty we have counted as we have got through. I essentially agree with you in your description of the LSS. This is an unacceptable situation. We've got a minor recapitulative of the LSS compensation in the budget. It's there. We were involved in negotiating it. We have previously, together with bourgeois parties, called for changes to be made to the regulation letter containing a kind of reduction mandate. We could work together well there. We are prepared to do so again, because this situation is unsustainable. The legislation needs to be amended. We have a number of precedents which, in practice, mean that people who really need assistance do not get it. I can reach out to you here. We can sit down for lunch. The Left Party can talk to the Christian Democrats about how we can change the legislation so that the right to assistance is there again, because there I am deeply critical of how the government acts.
i-1989b43a840098c9-488	Mr President, I would like to We will take each other in hand after the line shift; we usually do that in the Riksdag. But it is easy to say that something is wrong but then do no more about it, which the Left Party has the opportunity to negotiate with the government on the budget. After all, you are behind that budget – albeit with a small list – while we Christian Democrats are spending EUR 3.3 billion more to ensure that people do not have their assistance withdrawn in this way. We want to see an amendment to the legislation so that the cost-hunting in the LSS cannot continue. But more money is also needed. Today, there are people in need of help who do not dare to apply for more help out of fear of getting less when they submit their application. This is an issue that throws the lives of many individuals. A change of law is required, but more money is also needed. We invest 3.3 billion more than the government does with the budget that Jonas Sjöstedt is behind. I think that's bad.
i-1989b43a840098c9-491	Mr President, I would like to I essentially agree with you, Andreas Carlson of the Christian Democrats. I want you to note that we were the driving force to list the compensation. We were there to see to it that the letter of regulation was amended. But I think the main problem is the practice that comes from the judges. It requires a change of law. That is the main problem. That is why people are getting their assistance withdrawn today. Yes, we fully support such a change of law, and it is urgent. We don't have time to wait month after month for this to happen, because people get hurt every day. I'd be happy to sit down more at any time. I also invite the other bourgeois parties to participate if they look up from their phones and Ipadar for a moment. We can sit down and put pressure on the government to resolve this, because this is a group that is worth so much better than what is happening today.
i-1989b43a840098c9-494	Mr President, I would like to Despite the fact that we are currently in a boom that is sweeping all over the Western world, there is a lot going in the wrong direction in Sweden. Outsiders are growing. Care queues are growing. School scores are dropping. Cops stop working as cops. The worst of this is that the gaps are growing, because now the lower class in Sweden is growing by keeping low-skilled immigrants out of the labour market. It prunes their freedom, but it also risks causing the whole of Sweden to drift apart. The Social Democrats sit with their arms crossed, and it is all the time more contributions and more AMS measures that are the solution – not to let them into the labour market. I'm saddened when I hear the red-greens. Stefan Löfven beats his chest as if it is Stefan Löfven who has created the international boom in the Western world that we are now all benefiting from. At the same time, he has no responsibility for the alienation that is emerging. Those who come to Sweden must get a job even if they have a low level of education. The Prime Minister loves the formula. Everyone who can work will work. But it is only rhetoric from the Prime Minister, because in reality many are kept out of it by the policies you are pursuing. Europe's lowest unemployment in 2020 – I hear the Prime Minister say it less and less. We were probably in twelfth place when we shifted government in 2014; now we are in sixteenth place. I do not know how far Sweden is going to sink in order for the Prime Minister to realise that politics must be changed. You Social Democrats in the past, like us liberals, were driven by the dismantling of the old class society, and we succeeded to a large extent. But now it is you who are reinventing the class society by creating a permanent subclass of low-skilled immigrants in our suburbs. Sweden risks slipping apart.
i-1989b43a840098c9-500	Mr President, I would like to Here's the lucky guy. I think we should go out in the election campaign and say: Vote for those who are lucky! Stefan Löfven is lucky. We're talking about divides. That's interesting. In fact, during the previous bourgeois government, Sweden was the country in the West where the divides increased fastest. This is, of course, due to the fact that the main focus was on tax cuts for those who already earn a lot, and so lower compensation for vulnerable people and also cuts in welfare. After this summer I hear Jan Björklund talk a little more about the problems that arise precisely with gaps – that is correct. But what do you think happens to the gaps if the Liberals get what they want and will lower wages while making decisions that actually mean increased rents? What about the divides then, Björklund?
i-1989b43a840098c9-503	Mr President, I would like to If you are going to have an intellectual discussion about this, you have to problematize a little about what divides are. The Social Democrats, probably because of their roots in the trade union movement, constantly define gaps as income differences between different groups that have jobs. But I think it's even more important to think about those who don't have a job and how to get a job. The big gap is between those who have a job and those who do not. The problem now, Stefan Löfven, is – you do not come from – that unemployment in the low-skilled immigrant group is growing, even though we have a raging boom throughout the Western world. It has basically never happened before in Sweden that there are groups where unemployment is growing when there is a boom. But now it's happening, and it's happening during your prime minister's term. That this happens has its explanation in how the Swedish labour market is built, but we must dare to learn from it. If they are to enter the labour market, we must lower the thresholds. You don't want to do that, and that's how the new lower class grows up.
i-1989b43a840098c9-506	Mr President, I would like to Every employee knows that it is extremely important that everyone is in work. That is exactly why I say that everyone who can work should work. Otherwise, we cannot afford welfare, and freedom is restricted. Do not come and talk to a worker about the need for everyone to be at work! I understand that very well. Today, Sweden has the highest employment rate ever measured in an EU country. 200 000 more are in work. We are reducing unemployment – in fact, it is also decreasing among foreign born, and that is a good thing. But it needs to be reduced more. It does not decrease if you kill the Swedish model and as politicians go in and lower wages. Then you also lower for a much larger part of the Swedish labour market than those that you say you want to meet. Wage cuts are not the model, and that is not where the choice is: between not having a job or reducing wages. The choice is between not having a job or ensuring that everyone can enter the labour market, but with decent wages. One should be able to live on one's salary as well.
i-1989b43a840098c9-509	Mr President, I would like to But why does unemployment among exclusion increase if you have the answers to this? Our authorities have found that it will continue to grow sharply in the coming years. This is because your policy does not work for this group, Stefan Löfven. Thorwaldsson takes the initiative and says that we must negotiate these in particular. Then he has solutions that will not solve the problem, but Stefan Löfven must surely be the only person in Sweden with a little social responsibility who does not see the problem: that we are building a great alienation in our suburbs, with all the social problems that it leads to, crime and other things. When you see the problems, what are you going to do about them? Stefan Löfven says: Raise contributions and raise taxes! But that's not where the problem is. Young men need a job to go to instead of forming gangs in the suburbs and engaging in crime.
i-1989b43a840098c9-512	Mr President, I would like to American Westinghouse is under bankruptcy protection in the United States. French Areva has been rescued by the State. It's nothing strange. Areva and Westinghouse operate in a dying market; they produce nuclear power. Over the last ten years, more reactors have been shut down in the world than have been built new, despite the increased need for energy. Instead, renewables grow. In 2016, wind power increased by 16 per cent and solar energy by 30 per cent. The reason is simple: Renewable is more profitable. In Finland, we can see that the late reactor has become so expensive that it would have been cheaper to build wind power to get the same amount of energy. In Sweden, five parties now join the target with 100 percent renewable electricity by 2040. The Liberals stood aside, and you said you were worried that the renewable investments we agreed on threaten nuclear power. This may be the case – it's usually called technology development. Given the developments now, what would be required for Jan Björklund to give up on the belief that nuclear power is the future?
i-1989b43a840098c9-516	Mr President, I would like to I believe that for the foreseeable future we will have a mix in our electricity production, which is good. It consists of a lot of hydropower – we have had that historically. It consists of the heavy nuclear reactors that remain. The small, early ones are now being phased out for age reasons, but the heavy ones will remain for the foreseeable future. And we have a growing share of renewables, probably not so much more wind power. But it is exciting if we can use solar energy to a greater extent in the future. There are huge subsidies being pumped in. When Fridolin was going to have offshore wind power, the subsidies Nuon business made it look like a joy to us. It will never be profitable to build offshore wind, even with the subsidies you imagine. We now have an energy mix that works pretty well. But the new subsidies you are going to pump in to squeeze out functioning nuclear power plants are socially unprofitable and, of course, provide no climate benefit – nuclear power does not emit any carbon dioxide.
i-1989b43a840098c9-519	Mr President, I would like to It took a while, but now I was surprised! I never thought I'd hear a minister from Maud Olofsson's government take the word Nuon in his mouth. We have with quite a lot of recognised pain had to clean up after the shops that Vattenfall had to do when gas, coal and other fossil energy were purchased on the continent to switch Vattenfall towards more renewable energy. When we last met, on Sunday, Jan Björklund promised that he would be the next environmental party, but I do not make such great demands. For me it would be good enough for Jan Björklund to become liberal. If we look at the battle between nuclear power and renewables around the world, it is clear that renewables are winning. All the European governments that have been thinking about nuclear power have found that the cost is about SEK 1 per kilowatt. In Sweden, we build wind power for half the price without aid. Only the production cost of wind power means that we get electricity for 50 øre kilowatts. Why, then, should we choose nuclear power over wind power?
i-1989b43a840098c9-522	Mr President, I would like to I guess nobody's saying it needs to be built right now. We've got a surplus of electricity. The major challenge will come in the future, when the current reactors are phased out for age reasons. What happens then? It is a long way to go and is not a matter for the day at the moment. We will have six high-production nuclear reactors for a long time in Sweden. You've had to accept that they're still here. What happens then we'll see. I simply note that the expansion of wind power that is far from being based on liberal principles. We have a subsidized system. It does not help that it is called certificates; it is huge subsidies that are pumped in to get it profitable. If you pump in enough subsidies, everything will of course be profitable, but it is not on market terms.
i-1989b43a840098c9-524	Mr President and Jan Björklund! Bourgeois parties often try to tell us that their tax cuts benefit those with low incomes. Therefore, it can sometimes be a little liberating with the Liberals, who do not hymns. You lower the taxes for those who earn the most. 90% of your tax cuts go to the 20% that have the highest income. At the same time, you want to lower the salary of the low-income earners. Okay, Jan Björklund, you stand for it. I stand for another policy. But have you thought about the division between men and women? You tend to point out that you are a party that cares about equality. After all, men tend to earn the most, and the majority of the low-income earners are women. I saw a figure from the Ministry of Finance that 80% of your tax reductions go to men and only 20% to women. It is to actively increase the economic gap between men and women and drive gender equality backwards. This can't be right, can it, Jan Björklund? You must have counted on this.
i-1989b43a840098c9-527	Mr President, I would like to As soon as you lower the tax in Sweden, more men get reduced tax, simply because men together earn more than women. There are more men who have higher wages and more women who work part-time and so on. That's it. As soon as you raise the tax, it's the same. Even if you raise the tax to 100% and take in every penny – that would be the most equal taxation, where no one can keep anything – this is an inevitable effect. What we are doing is lowering taxes, above all, in the income groups where the large women-dominated academic groups are located. Those above those levels of income also receive reduced tax. It's an inevitable effect. For us, it has been important to raise the so-called breakpoint to the benefit of specialist nurses, midwives, secondary school teachers and primary teachers. They have been five years at the university and have large student debt. There you strike hard and tax the income they have. Most of Sweden's midwives pay government income tax. That's more than the LO groups do. And that doesn't make sense.
i-1989b43a840098c9-531	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Jan Björklund! However, I would still like to know if you have counted on this. For us, it's obvious. When we make a budget we see how it hits men and women, against rich and poor and how the distribution in Sweden is affected. If you care about feminism and equality, you must have calculated how your tax policy affects gender equality in Sweden. Then I ask you again, Jan Björklund: Is it true that 80% of your tax cuts go to men? Even though you say you stand for equality, you are increasing the economic gap between men and women in Sweden. Could it really be, Jan Björklund?
i-1989b43a840098c9-534	Mr President, I would like to No, if you look at our entire budget, that is not true. We're stepping down the interest deduction. There's more men on high loan. We want to raise salaries in the women-dominated academic groups precisely because it will pay off for education. Jonas Sjöstedt, who trains as a civil engineer and works in business today receives a market salary. After all, in the business sector, the wages needed to hire civil engineers are set. In the public sector, however, it is politicians who set salaries, and politicians hardly dare to take responsibility for increasing wage differentials. I mean, we have to do it. It must be the case that specialist nurses with five years of university education should have a higher salary than the dock workers in Gothenburg. Although they are communists and strike at a higher salary, we must have a wage formation in Sweden that promotes gender equality. Training must pay off, including for women.
i-1989b43a840098c9-536	Mr President, I would like to Several times in this debate we have heard how well-being is being put against tax cuts. We have also heard the Prime Minister say four or five times that the alliance parties cut taxes by 100 billion. He gets that figure by adding together our tax cuts, which are in four separate budgets. It's an unserious way of counting. These two things, I think, mean a dumbing-down of the political debate. If we reduce tax, we increase the drive for more people to work, and the cost of hiring companies is reduced. More people go from unemployment to work increases the state's tax revenue. So was the outcome of the Alliance's policy 2006 – 2014, and I want to be involved in ensuring that the result is the same of the Alliance's policy after 2018 as well. The Prime Minister boasts that he has turned a deficit into surplus but forgets to say that the deficit came during the biggest financial crisis since the 1930s and that the surplus was recreated through a budget that the alliance parties pushed through in 2014. The Christian Democrats are a party that prioritises care, care and security. We want to invest EUR 27.5 billion more in health care than the government does, and unlike the government, we have proposals for structurally correct reforms that can reverse developments in Swedish healthcare. We say no to expensive building subsidies, inefficient environmental investments and subsidies for the big unions. We give priority to tax cuts for pensioners, families with children and those who are far removed from the labour market. The Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party stand together for a lack of welfare, while bragging blue about how much money they can spend on just everything. Sweden needs a new government – a government that replaces the welfare of the red-greens with a welfare promise.
