i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-0	Madam President, I would like At lunchtime last Friday, we concluded the European Council which had lasted two days. This time, migration, digitalisation, security and defence, some foreign affairs, Brexit and future work were on the agenda. Madam President, I would like We started the meeting on Thursday by again discussing migration issues. This time we focused on the international aspects, especially the financing of development projects run in several African countries. Sweden is making great efforts here, both through extensive own aid and through support for EU action, such as the so-called Valletta Fund. But more have to contribute and more. As you know, Sweden has lived up to the UN's objective of providing 0.7 per cent of GDP in development aid for many years. Besides, we're way over there. I pointed out that if more countries had become involved, the situation in many economically weak countries would have been significantly different, and it would have affected migration to the EU. Indeed, today only five Member States are living up to the UN's aid objectives. Some countries have even reduced their support. In any case, we can see that many of the efforts made by the EU in cooperation with African countries have already produced results. Fewer are now coming to Europe, but much remains to be done. The root causes of migration, such as conflict and poverty, remain. They require broad and long-term solutions. I mentioned once again that we need to break the deadlock in the common asylum system and in terms of fairer distribution. Europe must become more ambitious. Together with President Macron and Chancellor Merkel, I pointed out that a solution had to be in place at the beginning of next year. It requires everyone to be prepared to compromise. The European Council will come back to this issue in the future, and we have now agreed on the objective of reaching agreement in the first half of next year. As the Riksdag knows, I am also prepared to take decisions by qualified majority if necessary. But the best thing is, of course, if we can reach agreement, and we shall strive for that. With the start of the discussions that we held at the Digital Summit in Tallinn on 29 September, we also discussed the work on the Digital Single Market and how the EU can take advantage of the opportunities offered by digitalisation. We all agreed on a high level of ambition in this area. It is important for our jobs, for growth and for our ability to be at the forefront of innovation and new technologies. I am particularly pleased that, in this regard, we have heard about the inclusion of free data flows in international trade relations, and about cooperation in the development of the next generation of mobile telecommunications technologies – 5G. The issue of taxation in a digitised economy was also raised. It is not acceptable for companies to avoid paying taxes through aggressive tax planning. At the same time, however, it is a complex issue that needs to be addressed at global level and not through a separate solution for the EU. There were therefore several of us who considered this to be something that should be done on the basis of the OECD's work on this work. We could agree on that as well. An entirely different area in which the discussions were largely also consensual was the EU's external security and defence. Here we all agreed on the importance of now moving forward with agreed measures. Madam President, I would like During dinner on Thursday, a number of foreign policy issues were also discussed. As regards the worrying developments in Turkey, we agreed that the situation is deeply problematic and that developments in Turkey are going in the wrong direction. It is therefore natural that Turkey's action now also has consequences for its relationship with the EU. We agreed that pre-accession aid therefore needs to be reviewed. It's reasonable to lower it. We also had a brief discussion on Iran and North Korea. I note that we in the European Union are united behind the line of sticking to the nuclear agreement with Iran. It contributes to stability and reduced risk of war. The same clear consensus applies to the view of developments in North Korea. North Korea must stop its nuclear and missile programme. Its actions are unacceptable and threaten global security, and North Korea must immediately meet the demands of Security Council sanctions. Madam President, I would like The theme of Friday's breakfast was the follow-up to the discussion on the future of the European Union that we had at the meeting in Tallinn. The President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, had sent out a work programme for the summit. The programme constitutes Tusk's planning for the work of the European Council until the summer of 2019 and was not up for negotiation but only discussion. We need to make our work more efficient, and it is good that the programme is clearly anchored in the process laid down in Bratislava just over a year ago and in Rome about six months ago. The focus must now be on implementing the decisions that we have taken jointly within the European Union, and I am pleased that Mr Donald has listened to us who have pointed this out. The Gothenburg Summit on Fair Jobs and Growth, to which I invite together with Commission President Jean-Claude, is also included in the work programme. It is good that it is now so clear that the social dimension is part of the future discussion, and I am proud that Sweden has contributed to this. I will come back to the European Council to provide more information before the Gothenburg Summit. Madam President, I would like We concluded the meeting by meeting in EU-27 format to review the outcome of the last round of negotiations on Brexit. We all agreed that the British must do more before the process can enter the next phase. There has not been enough progress on the key negotiating issues of citizens, borders and, above all, financial commitments. It is regrettable, but I hope that we will be far enough when we meet again in December. I feel that there is a new energy, and there are several who feel that there is a new momentum now following Prime Minister Theresa Mays's recent speech in Florence. My British colleague briefly informed us the previous evening about Britain's view of the situation in the Brexit negotiations. She expressed a clear ambition to come to an agreement and also a hope of finding a solution that could take us further. Finally, in the context of the discussion on Brexit, my Estonian colleague Jüri Ratas informed me about the situation regarding the relocation of the EU authorities currently located in the UK. The focus is still on being able to take a decision at the General Council in November. Madam President, I would like This was the report back from the European Council.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-19	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his report. Before I go into the conclusions of the summit itself, I would like to commend the government's European policy. It's not every day I do it, I'll tell you, but today it happens. The Ö Agreement on the Posting of Workers Directive the other day was a significant step forward. I do not believe that it should be underestimated how important it is for the EU not to be used to put wage earners against wage earners; that is an important lesson, not least, from Brexit. Not all problems are solved, but it is a step forward – no doubt about it. So to the summit and the conclusions. Reading the conclusions gives a fairly clear snapshot of where the EU stands. Migration policy is exclusively about keeping refugees away from Europe. There are no references to international conventions, to the rights of refugees or, for that matter, to legal routes to Europe. It is only to be regretted that this has got that list. Turkey has a key role to play in the EU's migration policy – the agreement with Turkey acts as a sort of payment for their role as border guard. At the same time, we are seeing Turkey gradually abolishing democracy and introducing a kind of authoritarian rule. There is no criticism of Turkey in the conclusions, even though it took a perfectly reasonable decision to reduce pre-accession aid. I think it is also a sign in time, that is to say that we are no longer prepared to express criticism. Nevertheless, I would like to raise this particular issue with Prime Minister Löfven. We see how leading opposition politicians such as Selahattin Demirta ş, Figen Yüksekda 中 and thousands of others are imprisoned in Turkey. Now the EU marks a little by reducing pre-accession aid. What does Sweden want the EU to do in the future to press for Turkey to reintroduce something that can be likened to a well-functioning democracy? It is the case that the power over these developments lies largely in Brussels and the European Council. It would be interesting to hear the Prime Minister's views on this and on what Sweden wants the EU to do in the future.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-25	Madam President, I would like Migration policy rests on several legs. It's familiar. This is not least about cooperation with the African countries and Turkey, as well as the agreement with Turkey and so on. However, it is also internally. That is what we are doing and which unfortunately takes too long. The seven pieces of legislation discussed there take far too long – not least, as I said, the redistribution. We have always said – and I have mentioned it several times – that this is, of course, based on international conventions. That's it. It is also a collaboration that is run together with UNHCR and IOM in order for us to comply with the rules and requirements that are made. So there is no doubt about it, but it has been from the beginning. It is based on international conventions. As far as Turkey is concerned, it cannot be much clearer. First of all, there are several bilateral contacts; no matter which of the EU leaders meets Turkey's leaders, how we view the situation is presented. The membership negotiations are de facto still, and we say that we want to cut back on the support received as a candidate for accession to the European Union. We intend to reduce this and also see how it can be more clearly targeted at civil society. In the various ways we can therefore express the criticism we have and the concerns we see with regard to Turkey. However, we also know that there are many forces inside Turkey that do not want the EU to close the door to that country. They're very clear about that. They want the contact to exist because it offers the best opportunities, and therefore we have said – as I said here before – that we do not want a dramatic and irreversible decision where we close the door yet. Instead, we need to work together, not least with the democratic forces that exist in Turkey.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-29	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. As far as Turkey is concerned, Mr Erdo is a very powerful politician, and I think he has the advantage of the European Union on the issue of refugees. I think it is incredibly important that, in this situation, the European Union speaks clearly – that it mentions political prisoners in the conclusions and that it mentions media freedom and freedom for trade unions. This is being carefully read in Ankara, of course, and it is noted that no criticism is being made. That's why I think you can keep doing the same thing. I therefore believe that it is really an important task for Sweden, as a country known to stand up for human rights, to ensure that the wording is included in the conclusions. I am absolutely no friend of closing the door between Turkey and the European Union forever; I think that would be unwise. It is reasonable to freeze the negotiations as long as Turkey is not a democracy. But I believe that what is missing from the EU now is a little firmness and clarity in the criticism.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-32	Madam President, I would like We agree with the substance of the criticism of Turkey. The membership negotiations have actually stopped, we are cutting back on pre-accession aid and so on. The fact that not everything is in the conclusions does not mean that there is no criticism. The criticism that Jonas Sjöstedt mentions is perfectly justified, and it is also brought to Turkey on various occasions and in different forums.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-33	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the report, Prime Minister. When we had a meeting of the EU Board before this meeting, I was very pleased that the Swedish position of protecting the right to asylum, legal certainty and human rights was so clearly highlighted by the Prime Minister. What I mentioned at the time and which still remains as a concern to me is that even in our own country, which stands up for these values, there are those who want to replace the general right of asylum with a quota refugee system. It is thought that people should go to gigantic refugee camps in some places on earth and only from there be able to get asylum and be redistributed in the country. That is something I consider completely opposed to the general right of asylum. There are also reports of the camps that already exist that there are problems with human rights. Many people live there for a very long time and do not get access to education or the opportunity to take advantage of their talents and develop as people. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore this: when we discuss these issues in the Council of Europe and know that we in Europe have a few countries that have refused to follow majority decisions on redistributions and do not at all share the values we have here in Sweden, how are the discussions going when the Prime Minister highlights the issue of the right of asylum, human rights and the protection of the general and general right of asylum?
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-37	Madam President, I would like First of all, we have been talking here all along on the basis of the international rules that actually apply, not least the right to asylum. We in Sweden have agreed to increase the number of quota refugees. I think that is very good, but it does not say that we do not stand up for the right of asylum. I find it difficult to see that the discussions now taking place within the framework of the UN, which will be decided next year, on migration policy and refugee policy more limited, will end in the absence of the right of asylum. I cannot see that it does not exist, and as long as that is the case, we stand up for the right of asylum. I think it's important. Thus, even if the number of quota refugees is increased, it will not remove an opportunity for people who still have to flee. We stand up for that. It is the bottom of all politics that we stand up for it. It has not been discussed in such a way as to call into question the right of asylum. I know that such political forces exist, but there has certainly not been anyone who has said on this occasion that we should remove the right of asylum and not stand up for it. I can't hear you.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-40	Madam President, I would like I'm glad. I want to make it clear that I also think it is important that we increase the reception of quota refugees. It is one of the groups that is perhaps most vulnerable, and there are a number of quota refugees who still lack places to come to. It is therefore a good thing that the government is increasing the number and will continue to do so. I thank the Prime Minister for his reply.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-41	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his statement from the European Council. Migration is always on the agenda, and it is necessary. I think it is good to also highlight the causes of migration and talk about how to avoid people having to flee. It is about security but also about aid, and there is more to be done for many countries. We will certainly come back to the issue of the distribution of refugees at several such summits. It is important that we maintain this, because, just as it should be reasonable for all municipalities in Sweden to assume their responsibilities, this should also be the case in the European Union. What has been very positive recently and partly dealt with at this summit are social issues. It is not a question of suddenly having the right to decide at European level on the various social issues, but of highlighting this dimension. I believe that this is extremely important in the Europe and in the world that we see today, when many people feel left behind. Then you have to dare talk about fair rules. Equal pay for equal work shall apply regardless of nationality. That is why I am delighted that there is now, after urgent work, a common vision among several countries with regard to the Posting of Workers Directive. I find it a little surprising, although I think it is a good thing, that so many countries are joining the social pillar. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: what happened? Is it the case that we have begun to realise that, if we are in favour of free trade and free movement, we must also have fair rules and a social dimension?
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-46	Madam President, I would like A number of years back in time – when I was not yet a party chairman but well engaged internationally – it was often heard from the IMF, from the World Bank and from others that equality is a problem if you are to have growth. Today, just the opposite is said: equality is a prerequisite for sustainable growth. More and more people see how the desperation that many people feel becomes a restraint in development, just as Marie Granlund described. In this transformation and development, it is important to ensure that people are involved. The simple truth is that development is driven by people. We do it for people. Europe is there for people to get better, not worse. I think this is at the bottom. I am also pleased that this applies almost regardless of the political colour of the government, as Marie Granlund said. It is said that this is important. We are not going to move decisions to Brussels, but we are going to ensure, for example, through the social pillar that we gradually develop the social dimension, so that more people get to work and that the right conditions apply in the workplace. Not least, people should be given the opportunity to change in an economy that will look different – our labour market will look different. I lead the ILO Commission The Future of Work with the President of Mauritius. There is the same kind of discussion: How do we ensure that people are in a transition and a change whose development nobody can say anything about with determination? The discussion is exactly the same. I see a clear trend, which – thankfully – can enable us to show people that there is a clear social ambition in this.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-51	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. The political work is not always so glamorous. This is a very tangled issue here and there – this is not least striking in the EU, where many countries are going to make decisions on things. I have to say that it is fantastic – I hardly believe it is true – that such a large majority of EU countries say that equal pay for equal work should apply regardless of nationality. All of a sudden, we are regaining the opportunity to have the Swedish model, and we are regaining the right to decide on our labour market. I would like to say that this bodes very well for the social summit that will take place in Gothenburg. Now we have laid the foundations for the social pillar and for posting, so the discussions can be very good.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-55	Madam President, I would like This decision means that the parties to the Swedish labour market can stand up for the Swedish model and for their agreements, contrary to the criticism that we sometimes hear that this would mean moving more decisions to Brussels. Once this is implemented – which unfortunately will take a few years, but this is the compromise – the rules in the EU become such that the Swedish model can not only be saved but also be developed and strengthened. I am very pleased.
i-SXVKsKVdHDyY1j4qHPHC37	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report of the European Council of 19 and 20 October! In a statement after this Council meeting, Mr Tusk, the President-in-Office of the Council, on the agenda for the future, said that he was satisfied with the discussions between him and the Heads of Government and with the findings there, namely the need for more informal discussions on politically sensitive and difficult issues to resolve. I have to say that this statement makes me really worried. I therefore put the question to the Prime Minister of our country: Is it also the Prime Minister's view that discussions should be taken to a greater extent in circles without transparency and without democratic control and transparency? Instead, I and my party want to strengthen transparency within the European Union in order to strengthen both the legitimacy of the European Union and democratic control. Democracy must never be rounded. Democracy requires transparency and transparency. I would very much like to hear the Prime Minister's opinion on this part. In addition, I would like answers to what we discussed very much during the consultation before the European Council, namely the question of human rights and asylum. In this question, did the Prime Minister propose to improve the wording of the conclusions, or did the Prime Minister not make such a proposal? I understood that we had a consensus in this part and would like to hear how the Prime Minister acted.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-60	Madam President, I would like With regard to the future agenda and possible informal discussions, the European Councils will continue to be held. That transparency exists and must exist. When we go to decisions, there will be transparency, as in the past. What Donald Tusk wants to achieve has to do with the fact that there are a number of very complex issues that sometimes require you to go in to see how you can dissolve them – not for the purpose of making decisions. I think it is good to find ways of doing this, but that does not mean making decisions. Everything to be decided shall be for formal meetings of the European Council. Of course, the parliaments of all countries have an interest in following this. I do not see this as a problem but as an opportunity to find new forms to discuss things that are very complex. The issue of refugees is of this nature – we have been doing it for far too long – and there will be more such questions in the future. This is just a working method from Tusk's side. We have, of course, had human rights and asylum policy on the table, and we stand up for these things. We also note that this is not the first time that we have written about this subject in our conclusions, but it has been there on a number of occasions. That is not something that changes – it does not mean that this does not apply if we do not rewrite it in the conclusions, but it applies for a long time. We stand up for human rights, and we stand up for the right of asylum. The whole migration policy is based on this. It is clear that I am presenting it, but it is not the most important battle in a conclusion if we already have it in place. We already stand for it.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-65	Madam President, I would like In the latter part on human rights and the right to seek asylum, I hope and assume that at the forthcoming European Councils, the Prime Minister will present the Swedish view, on which I am absolutely convinced that we agree, and that it will be better described in the conclusions of the Council meetings, so that we will never forget the obligation we have towards our fellow citizens, namely to give them the right to seek asylum in our democratic system. In the first part, I would really like to emphasise and emphasise that it is important that the Prime Minister should continue to present the Swedish view in this part too, namely that legitimacy and democracy require transparency and transparency. I believe that both the Prime Minister and I are keen that the EU continues to develop. Then one must have the Swedish view on openness and transparency, that decisions are not made in closed spaces.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-67	Madam President, I would like We're in complete agreement. There's no difference of opinion there. Sweden is not alone in having the order to go to Parliament, for example, both before and after the European Councils, that it has support for its policies in the European Union. There, all heads of government and state sit exclusively with the same needs. I do not feel that President Donald wants to close the possibility of having transparency in which decisions are made. That is not the issue. He wants to find more forums and other opportunities to solve very difficult political situations or issues. Transparency, yes. There's no doubt about it.
i-siDbsPP4DNHJF3u2ud1X9	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the European Council report. I am going to ask a question about the future of Europe, a discussion that I have identified as the most important one here and now. Both the Commission and many of the Prime Minister's colleagues throughout Europe have, of course, invested great energy in discussing new reforms of European cooperation and the new future EU. There are a number of ideas, proposals or ideas on our table ranging from a European Finance Minister, a separate euro budget, transnational lists in the European elections, the super candidate for the Presidents of the Council and the Commission, European taxes, the social pillar and more. A common theme is that more power should be transferred from national parliaments and states to the EU. This is a development that we Moderates doubt. We want to work on the core tasks of the European Union, on their functioning and on solving cross-border problems. When we discussed the future of the EU during the consultation here in Parliament before the European Council, the Prime Minister said that there are some proposals out there that we in Sweden have no reason to exult, but the Prime Minister did not make it more concrete. I would therefore like to offer the Prime Minister a new opportunity to put into practice what proposals he refers to when he says that there are proposals that Sweden has no reason to exult.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-74	Madam President, I would like As I also mentioned in my introduction, the debate on the future will be marked by what we decided on in Bratislava, simply after the Brexit referendum. When United Kingdom had decided to leave the EU, we said in Bratislava: how do we deal with this situation? We then identified a number of priorities, namely the issue of jobs, security and so on. We followed it up in Rome when we celebrated the memory of the Treaty of Rome 1 and wrote a number 2, a much thinner one. But there, too, we were clear about the priorities we should make, and these are the ones we have driven from the Swedish side. We shall now see to it that what we have decided is implemented. Now is not the time for major discussions on institutional change and whatever it may be. We have also said that there is no line up in Sweden to have a super candidate and other things that you want. That is not what people are asking in Sweden, and I have expressed that. I can concretise the proposals. A single Minister of Finance applies to the euro area. But for my part, I think we have the world's best finance minister, Magdalena Andersson. I do not want any other finance minister, at least no one sitting in Brussels. Now this is particularly the case for the euro area, but it is probably so important that we are also involved in this discussion. Euro-cooperation may well need to be developed for various reasons, but it must not mean weakening the EU-27. Decisions affecting the whole group shall be taken by the whole group. We present this daily and at once, so there Sweden is very clear.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-78	Madam President, I would like We probably share the negative view, if I am going to interpret it that way, or at least a few questions about several of the proposals. I would like to return to the question that Mr Erlandsson asked earlier about deciding on these issues in terms of transparency and transparency. Now there is an agenda laid down for when decisions should be taken. For example, on 6 December we will discuss the single monetary fund, that is, financial resources for the EU-27 and the euro zone, and we will discuss an EU finance minister. It is also an informal meeting in February to raise the issue of the super candidate. How should the process actually take place when the issues are addressed at informal meetings and not in transparency and transparency, when such important issues are on the agenda? How should we in Sweden work for more openness and transparency?
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-81	Madam President, I would like As I also said to Mr Erlandsson, it is not the case that formal meetings of the European Council disappear. That's where decisions are made. As before, we will consult and seek consensus or, at least, support for our EU policy here in the Swedish Parliament, which I believe most Heads of Government and Government need to do at home. There's no change. What Donald Tusk wants to do is to open up more opportunities to resolve difficult and complex issues. They may need an informal discussion, where one does not start from the usual positions but simply tries to find new threads to resolve issues. We don't see a problem with that. But as soon as it comes to a decision, we have the usual procedure, and we will continue to have it.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-83	Madam President, I would like I'm going to start where we agree, Prime Minister and I. This is the case with the digital age and it is important to ensure a level playing field in taxation at global level. There I really agree with the Prime Minister that it is important that it cannot only be done at European level. I also support the freezing of accession negotiations between the EU and Turkey. It is good that, in the current situation in Turkey, they are kept a little on cooling. On other issues, I have some concerns about increased supranationality. The first is defence cooperation. We think it is good and important for us to work together, but we are moving a little towards a common European defence. It says about the first projects for the defence fund. My question to the Prime Minister is: Is Sweden there with concrete projects, or how long should it take for Sweden to present projects that you want funds for from the Swedish Defence Fund? My second question concerns the social agenda. The Prime Minister and the Social Democrats are very pleased that more social issues will be decided at European level. It is said that this should not be the case, but issues of unemployment insurance, health insurance and parental insurance are, of course, what we are negotiating in committees. Is it not a question of increasing the EU's power over social security? In Greece, the EU Minister wants pan-European unemployment insurance. We will go in that direction if the Prime Minister does not look up. How does the Prime Minister see us debating the various social security schemes together with the EU and that this is increasing?
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-90	Madam President, I would like As far as defence cooperation is concerned, we are in favour of it. We have expressed this both in terms of what is more research-oriented and in terms of the defence industry. Therefore, we are also preparing what efforts Sweden would like to make in this cooperation. This work is ongoing. The whole process has been somewhat delayed, but it will take place this autumn. As far as social issues are concerned, decision-making skills in the EU do not change. It looks the same. If a Greek minister has an idea of a European unemployment insurance scheme, he or she may have it. However, this does not change the order of decision-making in the EU. What the social pillar says is that we should follow a number of indicators together, but it is the national level that decides how to do this. If you need to strengthen your unemployment insurance or other things, you do so at national level. For the Swedish part, it will mean nothing else. I have been clear about this from the outset when I first raised it with Mr Jean-Claude: the intention is not to give Brussels greater decision-making powers. We stand up for the Swedish model and want to develop it, and then we make the best decision. However, all countries need to consider what is needed to reduce, not least, youth unemployment and the necessary transition opportunities. Many unemployed people in the EU are looking for jobs but are not receiving education. So people are expected to get new jobs with old knowledge. It won't hold. Then countries must reasonably begin to think about how to make it easier, for example, to make it easier for people to get to work. However, we do so on the basis of national decision-making competence. Nothing else is proposed.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-97	Madam President, I would like But then it is strange that we are still discussing concrete issues such as, for example, that everyone should be entitled to four months of quota parental insurance. This is a concrete issue which we are now discussing in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and which then come to the European Council and then to the Council. Is it not supranationality about something when we come up with such details about our parental insurance? The Prime Minister must be able to answer that. The Christian Democrats think it is important for Europe to develop. It has been the basis for keeping peace and creating a sense of belonging. But economic development is what gives social development, not writing down all rights on paper. These must be linked to economic development. How does the Prime Minister view it?
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-100	Madam President, I would like Yes, economic development and social development are interrelated. I am therefore pleased that more and more people see that good social development is a basis for economic development. It is clear that economic development in turn provides opportunities for well-being. However, I am absolutely convinced that the best economic development takes place in an environment where people feel secure, have development opportunities, are in work, receive education and even if they cannot work can survive and manage their livelihoods. Then we create opportunities for people to say: The future will change, but I will also be part of that change in some way. I am absolutely convinced that this is a much better basis for economic development, so I share the view that these two are interrelated and interdependent.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-104	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his report. Most of us who choose politics to change society do so because we want to move forward. We want to change the future. That is why I will focus on Europe and the future perspective. The Prime Minister said that it is now time for the implementation of decisions taken in the past. Well, we have to do that. We have been stammering long enough on the same point with regard to, for example, a common asylum programme. I and parts of the EU Board visited the country holding the Presidency yesterday. It was sad for a liberal and passionate EU friend to hear that Sweden is no longer considered to be one of the couple horses that is moving the EU forward. Instead, we are considered to be retrograde. I can't help but agree. Let me remind the Prime Minister of the Joint Prosecutor's Office, which Sweden chose to stand outside, just like the Joint Banking Union. Not to mention a single monetary union, Sweden is putting its heels on the ground. It is sad to hear that Sweden, which stands up for all the principles and values that the EU should stand up for, is no longer regarded as a progressive EU country. What is the Prime Minister's opinion, and what does the Prime Minister intend to do to change the image of Sweden?
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-111	Madam President, I would like I have a completely different picture. Just the other day I read that in addition to the six major countries, it is the Netherlands, which is one of the founding countries, and Sweden that counts as the most influential. A think tank, which I always forget the name of, considered Sweden to be the second most influential country in the EU, i.e. after Germany. There may be differences of opinion about this. But the fact is that on 17 November, EU leaders, parties, civil organisations and other actors will meet in Sweden to discuss how to clarify the social dimension of our EU project. This is happening in Gothenburg, and I am proud of it. We continue to pursue the issue of jobs, especially for young people. We cannot have so many young people out of work. It's a time bomb. We must make Europe more secure and combat terrorism and crime, we must take greater responsibility for our defence and so on. These are the issues we are about to deliver on, and they are expressed in documents from both Bratislava and Rome. As far as the euro is concerned, we have had a referendum, and the people said so and did not want to be part of that cooperation. This is the case then, and I cannot see that the opinion of the Swedish population has changed. As far as the Banking Union is concerned, we are investigating whether Sweden should be involved or not. As far as a public prosecutor is concerned, we believe that there is already cooperation between the prosecutors and that we do not need to red tape it further. That is our view, and we support it. The progress of EU cooperation is very important to us, and Sweden has a clear voice in this.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-117	Madam President, I would like The fact that we are influential does not mean that we are Europe-positive. It's not the same. Had we been EU-positive and pushed the issue of a common prosecutor's office, a common banking union and other future issues, it would have been great that we are influential, but at the moment we are only joining the hesitant crowd. It is sad to hear in this House that most parties are now competing in Euroscepticism rather than anything else. On the social agenda, the Prime Minister knows that the Liberals also support it. It is important that we have social cohesion. Europe is not just money transactions; it is also a security system for all people. Let me just briefly mention what Mr Erlandsson was talking about. I believe that the Prime Minister underestimates the importance of what is stated in the Council conclusions. I would like the Prime Minister to continue to meet the demand that I understood that the European Council made: it should be clear that it is human rights that apply when it comes to migration.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-121	Madam President, I would like Human rights apply. It is the very basis of migration policy, and it is set out in a number of conclusions. We would not have had much influence if we had not been European-positive. If we had not been seen to be in favour of European cooperation, we would not have had such a great influence. There may be a need to change structures and authorities, but for me the social dimension is more important than a public prosecutor. I think people wait more for it than for a new authority. Just because you have differences of opinion on some issues does not mean that you are more or less positive. EU cooperation is important for Sweden. We stand up for it, and we are 100% there. I believe that Sweden's contribution to the cooperation is appreciated.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-125	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to ask a question about migration policy. The European Council underlines once again that further efforts are needed to move forward in the EU's migration policy. In some parts, the reform process has basically been stalled. There are still countries that do not want to accept refugees. There are countries that do not want refugees distributed to them. With these conditions, it is important that the government is a strong and constructive partner in the negotiations. My question is this: can the Prime Minister clarify how he is trying, in concrete terms, to convince some of the EU colleges to take their share of the responsibility for the reception of refugees?
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-129	Madam President, I would like With regard to the seven pieces of legislation under discussion, progress is being made, but it is quite correct that there are still some, not least on the issue of redistribution. There is very strong opposition, as is well known, especially from Poland and Hungary, but there are others who are also very hesitant. It's still there. We have been on this issue from the moment it appeared. We have numerous meetings, with the whole European Council or parts of it. We meet the Nordic countries as well as the Baltics before each meeting of the European Council, in bilateral meetings. I have called a number of Heads of State or Government and so on to pursue this issue. That is why I have again mentioned that we must set a date for this to be done. We would prefer agreement – that would be the absolute best thing – but we have made it clear that we are prepared to take decisions by qualified majority rather than by agreement in the European Council. As it is now, we run the risk that the countries with the lowest ambitions will be allowed to govern this all the time and that there will be no decision. We are therefore prepared to do so. We have also expressed the view that if we do not follow joint decisions, we should not have the same financial and financial support as we do now. These are two of the issues that we want to put on the agenda then, in order to put more pressure on those who do not want to do so much.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-133	Madam President, I would like I can understand why it is not easy to convince other countries of this. I have another question on the same theme. In Ekot's Saturday interview with the Minister for Migration this weekend, she said that Sweden's negotiating line is to try to convince the rest of the EU that refugees who receive asylum will be granted a permanent residence permit. This is an order that we do not have in Sweden today. Does the Prime Minister think that the requirement for the rest of the EU to grant permanent residence permits will attract more Member States to open up to refugee reception?
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-135	Madam President, I would like The nature of the various provisions, such as permanent or temporary residence permits, is a discussion that takes place in negotiations. We'll take that thing there, and we'll see how it ends. I do not think that this is the question on which agreement will be most difficult to reach, but it is the possible redistribution, on which some are still very much opposed. There is the difficult discussion, but let the work and negotiations continue. However, we are clear that there will be no partial solution – that we resolve all the issues and, in the end, only have the last, about redistribution. Everything has to be done in one package. These negotiations may continue.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-137	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your report. In the run-up to the EU summit, we discussed the issue of Pesco, permanent defence cooperation. During the consultation, I asked the Prime Minister if he could promise that there will never be a Defence Union, as it is now claimed that there will be cooperation. The Prime Minister did not answer my question. I am not going to repeat it, because it is quite clear where the Prime Minister is. I wonder, however, whether it was a representative of any other country who spoke at the summit that under no circumstances would it be desirable to see it as a permanent defence union, not a cooperation agreement on defence issues? It would be interesting to have an answer to that question so that I get a hum of where we are going in European cooperation, as they call it. There have been some criticisms, particularly – or perhaps only – from the Liberals, that we are not developing the Union in the process of integration that is being talked about from Europe, that is, federalising Europe. I think that the opposite is the case, that we are constantly doing just that. You start by talking about cooperation, and then you develop it into something else. I would also like to ask a question about this with the Eurominister and that the Prime Minister does not want to see any finance minister other than his own. If Sweden chooses to join EMU at a later stage, what is the Prime Minister's view of a possible Minister of Finance at EU level?
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-142	Madam President, I would like As far as EMU is concerned, I am here to report back to the European Council. I am not here to answer questions about EMU in the future and what might possibly happen. We have had a referendum on EMU, and it has given a clear verdict. That's what's going on. If in the future the Swedish people would make a different choice, that is what applies. I will have no impact on this. I don't know what's gonna happen in 10 or 15 years. As far as Pesco is concerned, it is not a defence union for the simple reason that this is what the Treaty looks like. You choose which cooperation you want to enter into. If we think it is good and right that the EU should take greater responsibility for its defence, cooperation is good. But it is not a Union, and it should not be a defence union either. We have no commitment of the type of Article 5 of the NATO Treaty. There is no such thing, but we go into the cooperation we want. We believe that it is good for our defence capabilities, and we believe that it is good for the Swedish defence industry to be part of the cooperation. That is why we want to take part in it, but on our terms. We're the ones who make the decisions. It is the same answer that applies, quite simply.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-145	Madam President, I would like I still do not see it as the Prime Minister's promise that we will not join a defence union. He says that we should not join any such, but it may change in the future. The issue of EMU is obviously a rather delicate one. The Swedish people will decide – absolutely – but the Swedish people have not been allowed to decide on a number of different issues. We have had three major Treaty changes in which the Swedish people have not been allowed to speak. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that, at the next treaty change, the Swedish people will be able to decide? I know that this is not a question for the summit, but since it is a question for future summits, it would be interesting to have an answer to it. I would also like answers from the Prime Minister on pre-accession aid to Turkey. Why can't you drag it down to zero? What is required if the Prime Minister, on the part of the government, is to be prepared to go down to a summit and demand that Turkey not receive any support at all in view of the developments it has there and the situation in that country?
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-148	Madam President, I would like Once again, we can stand here as much as possible and speculate on future treaties, but that is in no way conducive to what we are doing today. There is no question of amending the Treaty. Nobody wants it. As far as what is going on in the future is concerned, I cannot stand here and tell you what will happen in ten or fifteen years' time. It's impossible, and Johnny Skalin and I can't. It's pretty unproductive. One can amuse oneself with that, but I do not find it relevant in this debate at all. As far as pre-accession aid is concerned, we are prepared to cut it. We will have to come back with a proposal on how to do it – how to do it, with how much and possibly also focus. Then, of course, we follow developments in Turkey and will have to consider how the relationship with Turkey might change further. We will have to take a stand on this from time to time, but now we agree on this first. Reducing pre-accession aid is a clear signal to Turkey that it is heading in the wrong direction.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-152	Madam President, I would like Thank you for reporting back, Prime Minister. In preparing for the summit last week, the Prime Minister stressed that it is not time for new projects and more supranationality. This is a view that we Moderates share with the Prime Minister. Europe should not be concerned with issues that we can resolve nationally. The principle that decisions should be taken as closely as possible should, of course, be upheld. It is a basic principle. There are others who are running new projects, and we would like to know whether, when the Prime Minister meets his European colleagues in informal talks, which of course should occur, we can be sure that the issues involved in the informal talks also come up during the formal talks.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-154	Madam President, I would like I cannot know exactly what the agendas will look like, but it is clear that the decisions that come up at the European Council in the form of conclusions or other decisions will be dealt with in the normal order. No one has any other ambition. It is not only the Prime Minister of Sweden who has an obligation to his Parliament, but others too. There is no ambition whatsoever for something to be darkened, but this is a new forum to see if difficult, complex issues can be resolved. As far as supranationality is concerned, I am clear in that part that we are pushing very hard that it is Bratislava and Rome that apply now to us. That is where we will deliver: in terms of jobs, educational opportunities, defence, anti-terrorism and so on – and the social issues that we will return to in November. That's where we're gonna deliver. That is what people expect, not new institutions or what it might be. That is not what people want to see now, but they want results. We have more to deliver, simply.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-156	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. Should it be interpreted as meaning that the Prime Minister strives for us to have openness and transparency in the transfer of what is discussed at the informal meetings over to the formal meetings so that it becomes apparent from the reporting back to the Riksdag in the future that the discussion that has taken place at the informal meetings is also presented at the formal meetings?
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-157	Madam President, I would like As today, these are the conclusions that will also be consulted with the EU Board. There's no difference, so yes, that's it.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-165	Madam President, congratulations on the mission! Thank you, honourable Member, for the interpellation. Jenny Petersson has asked me how it is that I and the government do not respect the Riksdag's announcement that a general permit requirement should be introduced for all activities in social services. Jenny Petersson also wonders whether I think it is appropriate for users and employees in municipal-run operations to risk having worse conditions than the requirements imposed by regulatory authorities on corresponding private-sector operators. The Swedish Parliament decided in March 2017 to announce that the government should return to the Riksdag with proposals that the same requirements for permits that apply to individuals for professional activities in the field of social services should also apply to public activities. The Government finalised the announcement in the budget bill, which sets out the reasons for the government's assessment of non-compliance with the announcement. They are as follows: Municipalities and private actors in social services have different roles and responsibilities. Municipalities have a statutory responsibility to provide social services to citizens. In addition, private operators can apply for a permit to be active in social services. The purpose of the licensing process is, in particular, to prevent misleading operators and to ensure that essential requirements are met, such as the training and experience of managers and supervisors. The responsibility of municipalities also means that they are heads of social services that are handed over to private operators. Responsibility means that municipalities must always exercise some form of control in order to fulfil their obligations. The authorisation requirement acts as a complement to this control in order to ensure the suitability of owners and management and the conditions for the operation to be of a certain quality. As regards the start-up of municipal social services, the Government considers that the same need for authorisation testing does not exist as for individual activities. One important reason for this is the legal obligation and ultimate responsibility to provide welfare services. It also brings knowledge and competence in social services, which private actors who apply to the industry do not always have. In addition, the Government considers that a permit requirement would restrict municipal self-government beyond what is necessary for the purpose. A permit requirement for municipal social services activities would therefore not be compatible with the constitutional principle of proportionality of Chapter 14 of the Government Act. 3 §. A licence review would entail a detailed management of an already legal responsibility. It would also risk making it more difficult for municipalities to respond quickly and effectively to changing local needs, for example in the event of an emergency. The quality of care and care is a central issue for the government. It is a matter of compliance with legislation and the support they need for women, men, girls and boys who are in contact with social services. There are different requirements in laws, regulations and government regulations that the activities should relate to, and the quality requirements that by constitution govern social services are comprehensive. The fact that municipalities do not need to apply for permission for self-service activities does not mean that the requirements are lower in terms of quality of service. Regardless of whether a permit requirement is a requirement or not, the Inspection for Health and Care supervises both public and individual activities. State supervision means a review of the compliance of activities with the requirements and objectives set out in laws and other regulations. The quality requirements are the same regardless of direction. At the initiative of the Government, extensive work is under way to strengthen the quality of the various areas of social services. Since 2015, several different agencies have been working together to support knowledge development in the social services. Strengthened resources and increased regulation to ensure adequate staffing are other initiatives. The purpose of the permit requirement is not to focus on municipally driven activities, which have a completely different function and organisation from a private operator. Municipalities have a statutory responsibility and an obligation towards citizens, including the provision of a social service. It is part of municipal competence. The government has no reason to question this ultimate responsibility, but we have confidence in local self-government.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-173	Madam President, I would like We Moderates have been clear that we want to see a general permit requirement. It should therefore apply to everyone, regardless of the performers. We want Swedish welfare to be built so that diversity can be combined with careful control of our common resources. Quality must always be in focus. And we have to set tough quality standards, no matter who the performer is. Just as Åsa Regnér says, the permit requirement was introduced in April for private care providers who run retirement homes and housing for disabled people within the Social Services Act. This does not apply, however, to housing run by municipalities. It is sad that the requirements do not apply to everyone. In the 2018 draft budget, which was presented in September, the Government rejects the Riksdag's announcement that a permit requirement should be introduced for all activities in social services. It is therefore felt that the Parliament's announcement has been finalised. As I said, it is sad and regrettable that we do not ensure the quality of all activities providing welfare services, both private and public. It must be good quality and safety. If you do not meet the quality requirements, whether you are a private or a public operator, you should not be allowed to do this. We have made it clear that we want a general authorisation requirement. The government refers to the fact that it would be contrary to local self-government. I don't agree with that. The municipalities are, of course, the principals of social services and can hand this over to private operators. But I'm saying we're the ones who make laws in this area. Then it is the municipalities that are the principals and can hand over this. I do not see that the general requirement of authorisation would be contrary to local self-government. For example, if the government had wanted to meet with the Riksdag in connection with the announcement, it would have been possible to look at general permit requirements, investigate whether this would be contrary to municipal self-government and make a proposal. Now the argument that it is contrary to local self-government is being casually dismissed. It is regrettable that the government is abrogating the announcement. I will come back to this question. As I said, I do not agree that this would be contrary to local self-government.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-182	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and also thank the interpellant for an important interpellation, in my view. This is a new law that has taken many, municipalities and not least the private downhills, on the bed. So 800 accommodations are to be reviewed. According to the healthcare companies, almost half of the residents are at risk of not meeting the requirements, because the properties are poor or older. It's weird. The permits are apparently also quite difficult and bureaucratic. And this was introduced in a rather strange way right from the start. In fact, it concerned HVB homes and their activities. We, too, felt that there should be permits to carry out such activities. Then it was snuck in that it would apply to all care activities. It came a little strange, and many were taken as I said on the bed by this. Furthermore, the interpretation of the licensing rules seems somewhat unclear. At least that has come to light in the criticism. Should the condition of the properties affect the business, so that it can get rid of or not get its permission? IVO also has an intensive period now, due to all these applications. Reportedly, there are nine months' waiting time. This means that planned migrations can be postponed, and existing housing can actually be operated illegally during the waiting period. Has the government considered whether municipalities should be forced to take over or take back operations? How this is to be done is not mentioned in the answer. But it can happen, as many times it can be that you do not have time to get your permits on time. And no one wants you to break the law. How are the premises? Are they to be counted or not? Many times it is a matter of municipal premises where the business has moved to private direction. Then one might wonder whether it is reasonable for municipalities to be able to operate in premises that are not considered acceptable for private activities? It's the same older people who are going to live in and be taken care of in these premises. I would like to hear how the Minister views the consequences of the decisions.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-190	Madam President, I would like The aim of the government – I believe this also applies to the interpeller and the honourable Member – is that it should be as good a quality as possible in the services of social services. Those who need support and support through social services are often people who are not always able to make their voices heard, but they are completely dependent on getting the best service and support. We believe that the resources of social services should be used to ensure this quality. It is very important that IVO, which is a government authority, has the task of controlling quality and that the activities that social services provide comply with laws and regulations, whether public or private. I also think it is important that there are both municipal and private alternatives and that there is so much diversity that both the municipality and the individual can choose; that depends on what it is about. However, today IVO is working very much on these permits, and we have also contributed funds to IVO. Today, some 2 500 decisions per year have to be taken on licensing. If public-sector activities were also to be covered by this, it would involve licensing for at least 8 000 activities. Since there are no clear differences between the quality of private and public operators, I certainly do not see the value of using the means and time of this administration in relation to the work of IVO. If you think there is too much administration with the authorisation obligation that has already been introduced, I find it difficult to understand why you want to extend the licensing obligation for the activities that are legally obliged to provide these services. Moreover, in my world, it is strange to introduce authorisation testing for municipalities that have a statutory responsibility and obligation to provide social services to citizens, and this obligation, unlike private operators, has been imposed on them. In this case, the ultimate responsibility for the activities of social services is removed from the responsibility of municipalities. I just don't see the value of this. I believe that the time and resources of social services and IVO should be used to ensure quality.
i-3U1twuV5pvpvMU2yu9gkZC	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Åsa Regnér! If we back up the band, the Alliance government carried out various reforms to strengthen the protection of children and young people cared for outside their own home. We wanted to continue with that, and that is why we welcomed the bill. But through our announcement, we want to go even further. We were clear that there should be requirements for quality and safety in welfare activities. This applies both privately and publicly. Whether you are a private or a public performer, it should be possible to show what our money is spent on, because we want the best quality and the best welfare. I find it sad that a general permit requirement is not imposed on publicly-driven welfare activities in the same way as it is imposed on private activities. That meant our announcement. When I read between the lines in the answer or hear Åsa Regnér in this House, it is clear that you are not interested in putting pressure on the publicly operated activities to deliver high quality. Reepalus's study on welfare gains clearly states that you cannot measure quality and that you should not even try to do so. We think that is completely wrong. Quality can be measured regardless of who performs the service. It is essential to measure the quality and continuous evaluation of welfare activities. Quality is what should always be in focus. The announcement made by the Alliance here in the Riksdag was central to pushing for order in welfare. Requirements must be made, results must be followed up and there must be a thorough review before starting an operation. There, the general permit requirement is important for testing suitability regardless of who wants to carry out activities in the welfare sector. This is central and, as I said, I find it regrettable. I did not get an answer to one of my questions as to why you dismissed this in the budget proposal. I do not agree that this is contrary to local self-government. What does Åsa Regnér build it on? Is it based on an investigation or just on that paragraph? We make laws here in Parliament. Local government is outside the Riksdag, but municipalities must comply with the laws and regulations that we decide on. Outside the laws passed by the Swedish Parliament, municipalities can do what they want according to municipal self-government. So I'm just wondering, why wasn't there an investigation of this? What is the basis for this?
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-203	Madam President, I would like I did not get an answer to my questions about the consequences of this decision. I can agree with the Minister that high quality should be maintained, that this should be evaluated in the best way and that we want the best for these people. But it does not seem that the government carried out an impact assessment before its introduction. It came as a flash from the clear sky. One might wonder what happens if the activity goes back to municipal direction because the requirements cannot be met. How, then, can you think it's okay to run the business in the same premises in public, if it wasn't okay to run them privately? What's the difference? This has also caused great concern among both residents and private operators, but also among the municipalities, which are horrified if they need to take over these activities. We have said that we want general permits for everyone. But then you have to give enough money to IVO to do this, given that the waiting period is nine months. The consequence of this waiting period may be that activities become illegal and that some activities do not even get started. It is clear that we should look at the quality, but it does not seem that the government did so before making this decision to understand what this means for the accommodations conducted in private. If they don't make the assessment, what happens? And above all: Is it the same quality in one case or another if the activity turns into a municipal direction when it looks the same?
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-208	Madam President, I would like I did not intend to go up in the speaker's chair, but I think that the bourgeois side has thought completely wrong when making the announcement. The answer states that municipalities have a statutory responsibility to provide social services to citizens. In addition, private operators can apply for a permit to be active in social services. ..................................................... If the municipalities were to be required to request permission to carry out an activity that they are obliged to provide, then it will be very tricky in my ears. If you don't get a permit, what happens? Who, then, will perform these services that the municipalities are required to perform? It would be exciting to hear how the interpellier has planned such a scenario. That's what I was thinking about. I hope I can get this investigated.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-211	Madam President, I would like This is a little confusing. The interpeller wants more permits and even more permits to be required. The moderate Member of Parliament questions the introduction of permits at all. This seems difficult to reconcile. I was criticised for not answering the question of what happens if you do not have permission for private activities. I agree with Lennart Axelsson's question: If you do not get a permit in the municipal activities that municipalities have a statutory obligation to provide, what happens then? Then we really are in a vacuum. Municipal activities must be of high quality. Unlike many private actors who apply to this industry, they have extensive experience in municipal social services. You get training when you work there, you also have colleagues in an activity that has been run for many years and there is a legal obligation to provide these services. I agree that it was a good thing when, during the time of the Alliance, different rules were introduced for the protection of children in social services. I think that the purpose of those changes was very good. However, we know that the administration was very high, and it is still taking an enormous amount of time from those who work in this sector. Unfortunately, the Alliance did not provide sufficient funds for the activities and work of social services in order to maintain quality and also to be able to work with clients, such as children. We have measured this and know that if you have a day's work on a child-related matter, you spend an average of ten minutes on the child. The rest of the time goes to documentation and paperwork. Again, much of this documentation is extremely important for the rule of law, but it has become a strong list here. It was made worse by the fact that funds were not provided so that staff could engage in quality work towards the child and towards the providers of these services. We have therefore made a great deal of money available during the time we have been responsible, and we will continue to do so. When you compare quality, and what we know about quality, in the various services of social services, there is little difference between private and public actors. There is something different in different respects, but it is certainly not possible to say that one or the other has a much better quality. It can be said, however, that municipal social services have a completely different background and a completely different mission, which I defend, than the private ones have. That is why I think this system is a good one. And I simply do not want to add additional administrative requirements, because I do not see why we should use the funds for this rather than for more time for the children or other clients that the decisions are about.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-219	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Åsa Regnér, for the answer! Let me just repeat why we want this general authorisation requirement. We want authorisation that is neutral in competition, which is also the answer to the Socialist Member's question as to why we want this. It would be interesting to hear whether it will continue if it does not work in municipal direction. If so, this goes out on the user and on the relatives. It is another argument for a general authorisation requirement for both private and public operators. All welfare, regardless of the performer, shall deliver high quality at a high level. Competitive neutrality and high quality, regardless of the performer, is therefore the reason. A general authorisation obligation with clear consequences is the right way to go, I think. You have to have a general permit requirement regardless of the executioner. When a performancer does not have a high quality, does not meet the standards, in welfare services there must be clear consequences. We can certainly talk about the freedom of choice that needs to be developed and made more accessible and transparent. And we can talk about how social services can make it easier for employees and what they can do to give them more time with the children they work with. I agree that there is a great deal to be done here today. This was, however, a matter of general authorisation. And in my opinion, this is being dismissed too lightly.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-224	Madam President, I would like I did not really receive an answer to the main question as to what would happen if the municipality were to be denied a permit examination. Someone must carry out these tasks which the municipalities are required to perform. In my world, as municipal citizens, we have given politicians a responsibility to ensure that municipal activities are managed in a good way. We request this permission from the population every four years. And this applies to all municipal activities that have political governance. Of course, the municipality has a responsibility to manage the business properly. One answer to the first question remains: who do you intend to take care of this if it is concluded that the municipality's activities are not well managed? It feels a bit like this is another part of the debate on profits in welfare and private versus public. You are more concerned about private activities than about the whole, that is to say that there is a good business overall.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-227	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jenny Petersson, for the interpellation! I think we share the concern for social services. We share the concern for children and the elderly who receive services. We also share the requirements of quality. I am glad for this, because these are important things in a society. I believe that the means at our disposal should be used to increase the quality of the child or person who needs these services on the ground. We know there's a lot to do here. IVO has equal supervision of private and public activities in the field of social services. I think this is very important. Unfortunately, for example, we have a sad history of neglecting children who come to social services. It is incredibly important to constantly work on this. The government has not only provided funds, but has made a lot of efforts to increase the opportunities for social child and youth care, in particular, to be able to work in the best way in terms of quality. Since we do not see clear differences between municipal and private activities, I therefore find it very difficult to defend why we should use the resources for authorisation in this area too. I do not see sufficient reasons for this. Thank you for the debate, which will continue.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-231	Madam President, I would like Penilla Gunther has given me three questions about the forthcoming space strategy: One question is whether it will set clear priorities for Swedish space research, such as measuring data from the atmosphere as a social benefit and a contribution to climate research, which in turn forms the basis for the necessary political priorities. Another question is whether the government will specify an investment in a successor to Odin through strengthened funding for space research. A third issue concerns the prioritisation of developed research in the space field and collaboration with industry to make research applicable will be made clear through both funding levels and a clear instruction to the Swedish National Board of Space to prioritise national development projects. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Gunther for the questions. I am pleased that there is a great deal of commitment to space research and activities. The Government's space strategy will be submitted to the Riksdag around the turn of the year. There, the government will indicate a direction for state-funded space activities, so that it contributes to the development of Swedish space research and activities. The Government's research policy proposal identifies a number of societal challenges where research will play a crucial role. Climate, digitalisation and the health challenge are the global challenges we face. Climate and digitalisation are clearly linked to space activities and research. Sweden has been running its own national satellite projects since the mid-1980s. The construction of a new satellite is now under way and is scheduled to be launched in 2019. Other projects are also being discussed. The government's view is that, together with the efforts made through the European Space Agency (Esa), it is also important to run your own national projects, preferably in cooperation with other countries. The Government's research policy proposal is called Knowledge in collaboration – for society's challenges and strengthened competitiveness. I and the government agree with Penilla Gunther that universities and colleges should interact more with their surroundings. Therefore, collaboration is also a common thread in the research policy bill. This applies, of course, both in the space field and in other areas. We know that major challenges are best met with common forces. The Swedish space industry has successful suppliers of instruments, satellites and launcher parts to Esa, and these deliveries are a prerequisite for research from space. The assignments from Esa contribute to the technological development of the space industry in other areas as well and are thus important for their competitiveness. The importance of space research and activities was underlined in the 2018 Budget Bill, which proposes an increased allocation to the Swedish National Space Agency for 2018 and an estimated further increase for 2019. The funds are intended to meet the priorities that will be set in the space strategy.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-237	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for her answer, in which she says that the climate is one of three important societal challenges where research has a leading role. Sweden has continuously worked on this through the launch of the climate satellite Odin – already in 2001 – and also its successor, which was named Steam. On this I wrote in 2012 in a motion to the Riksdag about the research bill that was under way then. It was clear at an early stage that Odin was a success, both scientifically and in terms of the level of innovation, and it still is. Initially, the satellite is designed for only two years of measurement. Given that it has held for so long, for almost 16 years, and delivered useful measurement data, which, for example, has taught us about the recovery of the ozone layer, processes in the atmosphere that control climate development and so on, it is clear to me and many others who are interested in space research and climate issues is an important issue if you are not to work to replace Odin. I understand that there is somehow work going on to find something to replace Odin when it no longer works. Now it is stated from the Swedish side that we are increasing our investments in space, but I can see it as nothing more than that climate research in Swedish space activities is actually downprioritised instead. Instead, what should we have if we do nothing now and do not continue the work we have begun? The Government mentions that the funding for the Swedish National Space Board is increasing in the budget and that a further increase is expected to take place in 2019. But from what I understand, it has been decided no longer to index the funds to the Space Board. This means that the increase in appropriations will be eroded in the long term. The increase in appropriations is therefore not quite as great as the Government claims. The 2012 research bill meant 75 new million to the Swedish National Space Board, if I remember correctly. Then there was also direct investment in climate research in space. According to the National Board of Space itself, it has a restraining effect that a large part of the space budget is paid to Esa in euros; there is no compensation when there is a lower exchange rate against the euro. Unfortunately, my questions to the Government remain. This applies both to work on the replacement of Odin, i.e. monitoring and development, and the size of the grant. This important work on climate research in space must be able to continue in a sustainable way.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-244	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Gunther for this very initial discussion. It is quite right that we have been running these national satellite projects for a long time. They have been very important for space research and also climate research, as Penilla Gunther mentions. New projects are now under way. In future, we will also want to support national projects. They are best developed in collaboration, which can be done with other countries or by being run by our universities in collaboration with industry. The advantage of these slightly smaller projects, which are usually national projects, is that they are not only aimed at large companies in the space industry, but also at small and medium-sized enterprises. What has now been chosen to develop is the satellite called Mats after an abbreviation. It is a smaller system developed by universities and colleges. This is a choice that our expert authority Space Board has made. I think it is important that these individual projects are evaluated by the expert authority and that we do not make political decisions. On the other hand, in the forthcoming space strategy, we will probably point out the need to participate both in the major international projects, not least the European ones provided by Esa, and to have our own, because it builds know-how and capacity and provides opportunities for more companies, including small and medium-sized ones, to participate in this technological development work. As far as the appropriations are concerned, it is right and proper that we are now increasing the budget through the research bill. In total, there will be new funding of SEK 40 million from 2019. The aim is to support, in particular, space research and the development of new technologies that can be used not least for climate research. However, I would like to say that in our budget and in the research bill we also increase the basic grant, that is, the money that goes directly to universities and colleges, by 1.3 billion. They too can be used for this type of research project, which targets climate or space research. So, depending on how successful you are, there is much more money available for this work. We also have money set aside for, for example, Vinnova's collaborative programme, where space technology will be able to be used in digitalization and for smart cities and smart transport. As I said, space technology is essential to meet the major societal challenges we have and to develop society. Climate research is part of that, digitalisation is another.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-248	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. My question continues on how the government can secure in the forthcoming space strategy what the Government describes as a letter. For me it is not the same to have a letter. It is in some way an opinion from the government. A strategy shows a way forward: what process do we have to achieve a certain goal? I am afraid that the letter will somehow just talk about: roughly this is what we have in mind, but we have no way of going there. I'm very concerned about that. It is not the same thing to say that it is a big grant to the academic world in general. In that case, the government may not have to point out with all its hand, but half in the letter, or hopefully in a better word, the strategy, to know that the funding goes to some extent to space research and also to the important climate research. Otherwise, that money can be used for a lot of other things that can also be considered important. This is truly cutting-edge expertise and research that Sweden has many talented companies within. It is precisely the collaboration between academia and companies that must continue to work. We know, as I mentioned in my interpellation to the Government, what it's like in my own area. There we have GKN Aerospace in Trollhättan and a number of space research companies in Gothenburg. It's a whole cluster. There is even a network for this, as we in Parliament have a space network in which we try to improve in different ways on these issues. It is precisely this that sometimes we have to show the political will in the written documents too, so that the industry can know. I say this because I am a business politician in the first place. It must be demonstrated that it is profitable to continue to carry out cutting-edge research and development also for companies. It is otherwise a rather expensive business that one could easily move elsewhere. I work a lot with life science. They often equate space research and life science, which sometimes also belong together. It takes about as long in development to develop a thing into space as a new drug or something else. This is where it costs money. For life science you have a very clear strategy, a national coordinator and so on. But space shrinks from a strategy to just a letter. Nevertheless, I must remain curious and wonder how the funding is intended to go to further research for the climate.
i-Q2rwwLg1SzF9KMBD4Ny7v	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Penilla Gunther, for the follow-up questions! As I see it, we have laid a solid foundation through the research and innovation bill. It states precisely both the focus and that collaboration needs to be increased in all areas between our universities and the surrounding society. This applies not least to business. There we also set out the global and also national societal challenges that we see. It is clearly stated how we see that space research will be an important element in this. In addition, we have the budget proposal, which provides for the increase in appropriations presented in the plan for the next four years. There we make an effort at the Swedish Space Board to meet what was in the investigation that was presented about two years ago about the need to strengthen our expert authority. At the same time, we have made a number of parallel investigations. Among other things, we have looked at the future of Esrange and the possibility of transmitting small satellites in orbit there. We have now moved on to give a mission to the Swedish Space Agency and the Swedish Space Agency for the development of a business plan for it to see if the operation of such an operation can carry out itself on a commercial basis. I do not see, therefore, that we need another bill for this. This is the very basis for a letter that will be a space strategy that very clearly sets out the direction that we have for space activities in the future. I see that this is increasingly part of the daily infrastructure that we need. It is not only linked to research but also very much linked to how we improve our societies here at home on earth. That is what I have tried to pronounce several times. We need to think about space technology and not just being good at the so-called upstream services, i.e. launchers, instruments and satellite buildings. We also need to be better at using the data we get down from space. I mentioned digitalisation as part of it. It is clear that the major navigation programs are part of it. But we also have Earth observation opportunities that can be used for both societal benefit and perhaps business benefit. We must continue to build on the very strong space industry that we have in the country with the technology development that exists there that brings innovation effects to many larger industries than just the space industry and the space sector. In addition, we need to have a forward-looking approach to how we can use the data we receive from space to both address societal challenges and also create innovation and new services.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-264	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for your answer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I am convinced that the stronger we are at national level in having the good collaborations between academia and companies that are researching and developing in this amazingly exciting area together, the more we will have more trust and desire from other countries to cooperate with us. It is about us not only being suppliers to Esa's various projects but also being able to show that we ourselves have such a strength in what we find to be exciting as partners in some way. This requires the existence of conditions and economics in order to develop and refine products and services in this area. I am convinced, as the Government said, that it is a matter of developing the ability to use what we come up with. The results of research must somehow become more accessible in everyday life. Perhaps that is something I can add to the wish list for the Government regarding the strategy. I am convinced that it is really the research of the future that we need to develop further and strengthen Sweden through. We have many interested in technology and many knowledgeable people in Sweden. They need a clear signal from the government on this issue.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-270	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for a good and initiated discussion and debate! I believe that in many ways we agree, and it is my absolute will that we should give a clear signal. I believe that, as Penilla Gunther says, there is a need for collaboration and cooperation between researchers and industry, but also together with our authorities. It is necessary for the development of the services that we can see to be important if we are to be able to tackle this and achieve more efficient agriculture or forestry. It also applies to how we are to combat climate change and, above all, to follow it. Even in the case of different types of natural disasters, it would be valuable to be able to use space data much more. I believe that there is enormous potential for a country like Sweden, which has such a strong foundation to stand on. We have a strong space industry, we have fantastic research in the field and we have an innovative capacity. We're second best in the world when it comes to that. It is now just a matter of getting a clear will direction in order for these forces to be able to cooperate. It is my absolute ambition that we should be able to give it. This also provides for good international cooperation and good international reputation. There is great potential there if we could enable the development of Esrange so that smaller satellites can also be launched in orbit. Then Sweden would be one of a dozen countries in the world that have this ability and only on the European continent to have this opportunity. It is clear that it would send a clear signal that Sweden intends to continue to be a leading space nation.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-273	Madam President, I would like Peter Helander has asked me when Sweden will use the same requirements for the procurement of unprofitable routes as the EU has. As Peter Helander writes in his interpellation, Sweden is the second most sparsely populated country in the EU. It is important for people to have good access to interregional public transport throughout the country. The Government is working towards the transport policy objective of ensuring a socially efficient and sustainable transport supply for citizens and businesses throughout the country. The Finnish Transport Administration's proposal for a national transport plan for the period 2018-2029 proposes a series of measures that contribute to a modern, efficient and sustainable transport system. The financial framework is SEK 622.5 billion, which is just over 100 billion more than the current plan. The Government decided in January 2017 on a national aviation strategy. In the strategy, accessibility is one of seven focus areas. Within the EU, a recent process has ensured that it will be possible to provide operating aid to smaller airports to cover potential losses. At present, some airports can receive operating aid from the State under the regulation(2006:1577) on State aid for non-State airports and the regulation(1997:263) on regional transport infrastructure plans. At the same time, aviation's steadily increasing emissions pose a major challenge to the government's high ambitions for the environment, especially taking into account that the climate issue is one of the government's three main priorities. The EU Air Transport Regulation (No 1008/2008) allows the competent authorities of the Member States to impose public service obligations and to procure services under certain conditions in the absence of the conditions for commercial operation of the route. The introduction of public service obligations is an option but not an obligation for the Member State. According to Article 16(3)(b) of the Air Transport Regulation, when assessing whether a planned public service obligation is necessary and adequate, it shall be taken into account, inter alia, whether the journey time with the existing train connection for the planned route exceeds or is less than three hours. This Article does not imply that, as soon as the journey time exceeds three hours, public service obligations must be imposed. In order to decide whether a route should be procured in Sweden, Trafikverket conducts a so-called accessibility analysis. In the accessibility analysis, the distance to the nearest switching point is one of eight factors. According to EU rules, one authority in each Member State will be responsible for the procurement of public service obligations. As I have mentioned in previous replies regarding public service obligations, the Finnish Transport Agency has the task of concluding and being responsible for the state's agreement on transport policy-driven interregional public transport, including air traffic in Sweden. The Swedish Transport Administration has presented a new aviation investigation with proposals for the procurement of air traffic during the period 2019 – 2023. The study proposes a number of changes in the design of public service obligations and the procurement process. These include design, incentives for increased travel, quality requirements and follow-up. In addition, there are suggestions for a new line between Kramfors and Arlanda. The investigation is now under consultation until 30 November. I and the Government believe that the task of analysing which interregional public transport service should be covered by public service obligations in order to reduce the gaps in accessibility is also to be carried out by the Finnish Transport Agency.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-279	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Eneroth, for your answer. I would like to inform those who, by any chance, are watching this on television or are seeing us in some other way that we have debated these issues in the past with regard to public service obligations on the Mora – Arlanda route. But that was before Trafikverket handed over the flight investigation report to the government a few weeks ago. In the report Aviation Investigation 2019 – 2023, Trafikverket proposes that the Mora – Arlanda route should not be subject to public service obligations, just as I feared when we debated last time. This is because Trafikverket believes that a travel time by train of 3 hours and 45 minutes from Mora to Stockholm means good accessibility. The Government's response states that the Government is working towards sustainable transport supply for citizens and businesses throughout the country. I think it is a good ambition, and I share it. However, ambitions must be followed up with action to make them a reality. The Government also mentions the Government's aviation strategy in its response. Of course, I have read it, and I intend to return to it shortly. I am pleasantly surprised that the Government is addressing Article 16(3)(b) of the Air Transport Regulation, which allows the introduction of a public service obligation for the route if it takes more than three hours to travel by train, for example to Stockholm. Nowhere in the Trafikverket report is mentioned the three-hour rule, but instead they have used a four-hour line. One might wonder why that is. An annex to the flight report describes the previous story. The flight strategy also describes some of which one can draw a conclusion as to why it will be four hours instead of three hours. That was part of my question. Both texts directly state that there is a budgetary framework. There was a financial framework of SEK 100 million last term of office, and this term of office is SEK 95 million. I have a suspicion, and this is not just a suspicion: the four-hour time frame has not been added on the basis of availability by definition, but it has been created because the financial framework is not sufficient if the time frame is set at three hours. I find it unfortunate that the Finnish Transport Administration is restricting itself in this way. It is probably the government that will decide on the financial perspective. As I said, we live in the second most sparsely populated country in the European Union, and we end up in four hours instead of three hours, as the European Union proposes in its regulatory framework. In the Government's aviation strategy, the following is written about the support for the air traffic procured by the Finnish Transport Agency: The various subsidies are sometimes given on the basis of different conditions, which can lead to deficiencies based on a holistic approach. Since Trafikverket does not analyse the impact of their decisions on jobs, entrepreneurship, regional development, defence, ambulance flights, organ transportation, ambulance helicopters and the question of how the whole country can live, I agree with the government that a holistic view is lacking. The time limit, which I think is completely wrong, is calculated on the basis that you live at the travel centre and have your business there. I can tell the Government that it takes two and a half hours by car to get from the northern part of the county to the travel centre. Then you go on a train for four hours. It's a six-and-a-half-hour trip. This calls Trafikverket good accessibility. It's not a local airport we live at. It's a regional airport. Does the Government think that Trafikverket has a good overall view in its report?
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-289	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Peter Helander, for the commitment! We had a very good interpellation debate last time on this. I appreciate Peter Helander's commitment to these issues. So am I. In fact, I believe that we have the same will for us to have good opportunities for transport throughout the country. We will reduce regional disparities. The government's clear ambition throughout this term of office has been to reduce the sharply increasing regional disparities in the country. That is one of the reasons why we are now effectively delocalising government works, ensuring that state service agencies exist throughout the country and ensuring that we have educational opportunities throughout the country. We are pursuing a regional policy on a completely different scale than, for example, the previous alliance government was capable of doing. I am proud of this. The country needs to be tied together, and infrastructure is one of the tools. I can assure Peter Helander that I am working hard on this, whether we are talking about air, rail, road or even shipping. As far as procurement and public service obligations are concerned, I have clarified the basic conditions for this. It is important to remember that the three-hour rule is not a guideline governing the Member States. It is, of course, the case that the Member States can relate to the evidence provided by the European Union. Finland, for example, is a country that applies the rule in a slightly different way. This is also not a new invention during the Social Democratic-led government period, but is an application that the previous government used, or rather: the Transport Agency did so in its way of acting. However, something has happened that is important and that I think both Peter Helander and I appreciate. We have achieved success in terms of European regulation. It is now new rules that create an opportunity for the public to cover losses for all airports with less than 200 000 passengers. It is fully in line with the aviation strategy adopted by the government. It also means increased opportunities for states to act. Then, of course, it is important what resources you have at your disposal, whether we are talking about the Finnish Transport Administration or about the government. The government has 100 billion more to spend on infrastructure in the national plan's if we are to decide on in March April. That is 100 billion more than was in the previous national plan, which existed during the time of the alliance government. This means that we have the opportunity to do more in the different modes of transport. Such work is currently under way. I travel all over the country to talk to regional and local actors, with the business community and with many others. The fact is that tomorrow we will have a major hearing with all county planners to make comments on this. Then I'm sure the flight will also be updated. But the reason why I mention the resource issue itself is that it is crucial to what opportunities exist. Now the opposition has presented its budgetary options. In the Center Party's budget options, there are fewer resources available to the Finnish Transport Administration. You can say that it is about 8 million SEK less, which is exactly what the Hagfors – Arlanda route costs to procure or, for that matter, the Torsby– Arlanda section. If you think this is important, you need to have funds for it and not give priority to other things in your own budget options. The question back to Peter Helander – I know that we have the same starting point – is: Does the Center really have sufficient resources to meet the commitments and wills expressed by the interpeller in this discussion?
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-297	Madam President, I would like Perhaps it was no coincidence that we had Annie Lööf in Mora last week when the problems were described. It is good that there has been support for regional airports. Now it may be that Mora doesn't need it because we don't have a flight. You don't need an airport if you don't have a flight. One might wonder, ‘ Is city and country treated differently? ' I brought it up last time. Are there different standards? The Swedish hearing used a time limit of two hours and thirty minutes, when people should choose trains instead of flights. The Finnish Transport Agency spends four hours. Why do you have a different yardstick between Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö than in the country? I wouldn't have fought for the plane if it had taken two hours and thirty minutes. It is actually possible to get by train from Mora to Stockholm in two hours and thirty minutes. There's only 4 billion missing for Dalabanan. There are no major investments in Dalabanan in the large budget that the government has put forward. These aren't safe bets. Now the Swedish Transport Administration will take the plane off us too. It is clear that there is some disappointment and perhaps a slight annoyance among all parties in Dalarna. We would like to have a better railway, but as long as we do not, we must at least keep the flight. There are many roots to this. It's not easy. I'll quote what's in the Trafikverket report. It's a long sentence. It is therefore the decision on public service obligations which governs what kind of service is to be/ can be achieved i.e. scheduled air services cannot be procured without a public service decision and regular air services cannot be purchased beyond the scope of the public service obligation. ..................................................... A little further down, it says: and as long as nothing else is determined, no one can buy regular air traffic except the Finnish Transport Agency. ..................................................... That is their interpretation of EU law. What does that mean? Yes, it means a moment 22. We've paid money from the municipality. I used to be a councillor. The municipality has paid money for aircraft from Sveg to Stockholm to stop in Mora. In the agreement with Trafikverket it says that they can make a stopover. It could say ska. But now it says they get to make a stopover. Then the Finnish Transport Administration has come to the conclusion in all its wisdom that only the Swedish Transport Administration is allowed to procure, and there must be a public service obligation. Then we have an element 22. I'm really scared that tomorrow the Transport Administration will tell the operator you can't land. You're breaking our deal. Then we're out of traffic, and we're not allowed to procure traffic. The government does not want to impose public service obligations on us. Then we'll be standing with an airport that can't be used except maybe for an ambulance and some other stuff. It's going to be an expensive airport. Above all, it will affect business, jobs and entrepreneurship in the country. I know that the Government shares my view that the whole country should live and that more needs to be done in regional policy. For me, this is suddenly not a question of traffic policy. It becomes a matter of business policy – it is something that the Swedish Transport Administration does not address. I wonder what we should do when it comes to the companies in northern Dalarna that are internationally owned. I wonder what we're gonna do when they sit at their headquarters in Paris and say, "You can't fly." It is not possible to get to Mora or Dalarna in one day. We're putting our business in some other country. This will be the result: moving business. We get unemployment, and rural areas cannot survive in the long term. It is a larger dimension than just the public service obligations. I wonder if the Government thinks that this is a reasonable position that the Swedish Transport Administration is pursuing. They're running this. We've been really scared for over a year to throw in the towel so we can shut down the business.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-308	Madam President, I would like It is true that there is sometimes reason to consider whether everyone is pulling in the same direction when it comes to the whole country's life. I think that, through my political experience, I see quite a few examples of when, unfortunately, good intentions do not coincide. This is one of the reasons for the directives for the Finnish Transport Administration's mission to develop a national plan. It is also a question of seeing: how can the whole country be linked to the regional divides that exist? How can efforts be made to strengthen our competitiveness and to cope with the transition? I am particularly pleased with the fact that, in the proposal that has been put forward by the Finnish Transport Administration – it is important to bear in mind that it is still out for a referral – places particular emphasis on how enterprise policy can be strengthened. It has even designed a business policy pot of SEK 1.2 billion – this is precisely to enable the business community to discuss whether there are low-hanging fruits and efforts that could be made to achieve a better overall solution. Now it remains to be seen how the consultation bodies react to the proposal. I myself like the idea, because I know from my own municipal experience that sometimes something that is extremely difficult to coordinate in terms of funding can be solved by having little resources available nationally in a form of co-financing. But, of course, it remains to be seen how the consultation bodies deal with this. It is important to remember that it is basically about what resources are available. Nevertheless, we now have SEK 100 billion more in the national plan. I am proud of this, although I know that the wishes far exceed the resources available. Nevertheless, it is 712.5 billion we can put in the eleven-year investment plan that we will decide on in the spring. This also means, of course, that we maintain the level of the Swedish Transport Administration's appropriations that we put in our draft budget now, and then it is again a concern that the Centre Party in its draft budget actually makes a saving on the Swedish Transport Agency that corresponds to the cost of making traffic agreements between Torsby and Arlanda or Hagfors and Arlanda. It is a question of resources, but it is also, as the interpeller is quite right, a question of how we coordinate the efforts that are being made. In Dalarna it is special. There's the base industry. There are successful export companies that must have good communication opportunities around the world. At the same time, there are also a number of different projects going on; I note that the airport in Sälen was opened not long ago. It is clear that it is important that infrastructure efforts are able to set common regional priorities in order to do what is most effective. My message when I've been out touring and meeting representatives in the regions has also been that the more you can coordinate together, the better. I will carefully follow the application of the new regulations that the European Union is giving us. It gives Member States greater room for manoeuvre, and it also means that we do not risk the same situation as in previous years, that is, that the European Commission should go in and reject some of the support that has been available to our regional airports. I note that in the budget we are also giving extra support to our regional airports, which is an important issue for me. The Swedish Transport Administration's proposal is now for a referral, and this means that I cannot comment in more detail here.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-317	Madam President, I would like I say as I did last time: I choose to interpret Minister Eneroth benevolently, and if the Government ensures that there are obligations on the Mora – Arlanda route, I will publicly commend him and the government for spending money on this. The referral is out until November 30th, and then the Finnish Transport Administration will make decisions. However, what I am warning you about is there, which means that the Finnish Transport Administration will be able to stop traffic tomorrow. I would therefore like the Government to be able to send at least some signal to the Finnish Transport Administration to wait until the matter is finally settled. I have tried to check with some old road operators and traffic operators, and the model used by Trafikverket is actually an old model that Rikstrafiken used when SJ would count times and be supported. It has now been translated into air traffic, but these are not at all the same parameters. Then it will only be time by rail, from station to station, but that is not really what it is all about. Last time we debated this, the Government said that one cannot act on the matter until the Swedish Transport Administration has made a negative decision. Then, of course, I'm out fishing for a government regulation letter, just as Torsby and Hagfors got it under the previous government. It would be important if we could impose public service obligations on the route there and, above all, say that it should be Sveg – Mora – Arlanda Airport, with a stopover. After all, the cost of this must be less than one thousandth of a per mille in the state budget. We're talking about maybe a couple of three million in increased costs, maybe not even that, in a procurement – a small cost that means an incredible amount to a large part of Sweden.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-322	Madam President, I would like First of all, I am extremely careful when it comes to sending signals, not because of the substance of the matter itself, but because we have a regulatory framework that means that I, as Minister of State, should be extremely careful to do so, otherwise I risk visiting the Constitutional Committee, and I would rather avoid that. On the other hand, it is absolutely true, and I think that is an important signal to send also in these times, when everyone is looking at different traffic investments, that we should always have the basis and basis of calculation of socio-economic analysis, travel times and hours. At the end of the day, however, it is politics that has to put its foot down and talk about what is a desirable development of society. Recently, for example, we commissioned Trafikverket to procure night rail traffic to Jämtland, because the market is not responsible for this, which is of course incredibly important for Jämtland region, for Jämtland's development and not least for the tourism industry. I think it is important that we have this in remembrance, otherwise traffic policy could just as well be reduced to an Excel sheet with a calculation of what is most profitable, and that is how it will be. Politics is also to express expectations, hopes and will for the whole country to live, where it is not market forces that govern, but for other political and moral reasons we want some development. That is why it is important for me first of all to listen to the consultation bodies, to be prepared to act if I have to do so, to ensure that there are the necessary resources in such a case, but also to provide the best possible basis for decision-making in order to continue the dialogue. I thank the interpellant for good discussions. I am absolutely convinced that we will continue to discuss both this and other regional policy issues in the future.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-328	Madam President, I would like Erik Ottoson has asked me what measures I intend to take to enable travellers to use the same ticket and payment solution in public transport regardless of which public transport company carries out the journey. In previous interpellation debates on the same issue with Erik Ottoson, partly in January 2016, partly in June this year, when the interpellant unfortunately could not attend, my representative Minister Anna Johansson has reported back on the ongoing work within the government. She mentioned the internal investigation that was presented in 2015 and noted that there was a development with industry-wide initiatives and that there was the established independent sales channel for public transport travel r esrobot.se. Through that portal, travellers can plan trips and buy tickets for public transport throughout Sweden. She also noted that it took time to change familiar patterns and that a number of travellers still turn to the previously well-known sales channels. However, the Government has taken a number of initiatives in this area, several of which are part of the Government's cooperation programme Next Generation Travel and Transport. Several of the initiatives aim to develop and modernise public transport for the new concept of mobility as a service, also known as combined mobility. A national roadmap for combined mobility has been developed. It aims to support the emergence of combined mobility. Linked to the Roadmap, there is also a project funded by Vinnova, among others, to coordinate, stimulate and monitor the implementation of the first period of the Roadmap until 2020. Another initiative initiated within the collaboration programme is about mobility as a service outside metropolitan areas and joins the government mission on rural collective transport that the National Road and Transport Research Institute will report back later this autumn. The Finnish Transport Administration's proposal for the national transport system plan submitted to the Government on 31 August this year contains two specific measures that will facilitate travel when using the same ticket and payment solution in public transport. One is called Power Collection for public transport data – a foundation for mobility as a service or combined mobility. The second is information and knowledge-raising measures for mobility as a service/combined mobility – simple headlines for difficult things! The European Commission decided on 31 May this year on the regulation on the provision of EU-wide multimodal travel information services. This means that all information linked to travel should be easily accessible to everyone, both travellers and third party developers, within a few years. Sweden is at the forefront and already has much of the information available as open data. In addition, there is rapid technological development with mobile phone apps, both for information and for purchase, and also new payment solutions that the Swedish innovations Swish and Izettle simplify the purchase and payment of tickets, among other things. All in all, most actors are moving in the same direction on this issue, both political representatives and the industry and the market, but they do so with different starting points, different objectives and at different speeds. I therefore believe that the future looks bright and will follow developments. In the first place, I hope that the industry, with the help of the incentives provided by the government, will enable the traveller to make easy and easy use of the ticket and payment solution that the customer chooses. However, I do not rule out taking further action in the long term if the issue of reservation and payment systems remains an obstacle to the choice of public transport operators by travellers.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-337	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Let me begin by emphasising how refreshing it is to have a Minister responsible for infrastructure issues who gives a humble and full answer on public transport issues. It's an innovation in itself. There is much going on in this area. In this respect, I and the Government are in complete agreement. Resrobot is a project developed by the industry and which originates from a jointly funded company that came into being during the last term of office. It itself stems from a statement from that government that either the industry resolves these issues itself or it will have to go to legislation. It was an important message then, and it is an important message now. I have asked the Prime Minister's representative, Anna Johansson, if the answer remains, and I have received the answer that it does. I would like to ask the Government how and what this leads to. Is the message firm, and if so, what does it lead to? It is true, as the Government says, that there is a lot of information about travel, payment services and so on available as open data in Sweden. Here we are at the forefront. But it is not the whole analysis of this; it is also about how information is actually made available to travellers. On the Swedish public transport market there are a number of different established players who have been monopolists. This applies to the local public transport companies that have operated regionally, and this applies, for example, to SJ nationally. They have, as the Government says, the advantage of familiar patterns that take time to change. Despite the fact that tax money has gone into building up their travel planners and digital structures, they are used as a competitive advantage today – especially in SJ's case. The fine Resrobot initiative is not used very extensively at all because the familiar patterns look like they do. I share the view that many are striving in the same direction but from different points of view. Different starting points are, for example, how the information should be made available. I do not feel that a common starting point in the industry today is to market and make available the information about the trips that exist through Resrobot, but most are probably on their familiar systems. It's a concern. There are thoughts on how to move forward. Something that I have put forward in different contexts is the possibility that everyone who operates public transport should also be forced to show in their travel planners in a competitively neutral way the different departures of their competitors on the same or equivalent routes. It would change market incentives in such a way that no one can benefit from keeping their own and withholding information from travellers anymore. It is in everyone's interest that passengers have complete information, and it is in everyone's interest to create as common a solution as possible. Resrobot could, under such circumstances, break through. There is an ocean of payment solutions to go ahead with. One example is, as in so many other contexts, the use of regular credit cards. Swedish Commerce and the banks today have an agreement to be able to use the wireless feature on their cards to make transactions up to a certain amount. It can also be a solution for public transport. That way, we won't have any special cards.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-346	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Erik Ottoson, for your commitment! I appreciate that. During the debate here, I have already received several good suggestions from Erik Ottoson on how this area can be developed. That's how it's supposed to work. I believe that creative individuals, companies and other actors should come up with their proposals and develop new services. I also believe that, in general, care should be taken to introduce too strict regulations from a political point of view, not least in areas of rapid technological change. If it does not go fast enough, we must be prepared to act. I myself am in such a position as a relatively new Minister for Infrastructure, where I now obtain information, meet with the parties and assess whether sufficient initiatives have been taken in this area. Of course, I am also investigating why Resrobot or other services have not really penetrated to the extent that one could expect. Nevertheless, I will reserve the right to say that the starting point for government policy should be the traveler perspective. How do we find models that make it easier for travellers? Here the government has to take account of EU legislation, the initiatives that have been taken and our prerequisites to make clear demands on the actors. I will have the same readiness as my predecessor to act, if necessary. I will also take this opportunity to see how Erik Ottoson thinks we should act in the future. Are there specific legislative proposals that should be put forward by the government? How are services to be provided with respect for the different commercial and competition interests of companies? We also want players who sometimes compete for customer favor and offer the most favorable offers. My starting point and the government's starting point is the traveller's perspective of getting all available information, of ensuring that the consumer can do right from a practical point of view for the best purchase and of ensuring that operators are in a good position to offer these services in the best possible way – preferably using models like Resrobot or similar.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-350	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the filling answer! I fully agree with the starting point of the Government that we should legislate as little as possible. The problem arises from the existence of a former monopolistic market which has actually been liberalised but where there is still some inertia in the functioning of the market. One such concrete thing is that when you travel by train you go into sj.se. On sj.se there are not all departures; although they go from the same station to the same station, they are not there. On a purely market-based basis, it has been assessed that it does not benefit SJ to show the departures of the strongest competitor on, for example, the Stockholm-Gothenburg route. In fact, that is the case. The proposal that all departures should be displayed in all travel planners would, in such cases, apply to the competitor. SJ's departures should also be shown on MTR's website and vice versa. The idea is perhaps that such a change of law does not necessarily have to be implemented, but only that we are discussing the issue in this House at all makes it clear that it cannot be postponed indefinitely. It is a very simple action to let each other in. Some competing companies enter certain travel planners, others do not. The losers are the travelers. There are countless examples from around the country where various county transport companies deal with these issues for competing routes in different ways. Those who want to provide traffic, which might not be provided in another case, on commercial grounds, but tax subsidies, are just a plus for us travellers, have more difficulty in getting through because of the familiar patterns. There we have a common ambition to reverse the situation. Payment systems are a bit of a different matter, but they are adjacent to what we are talking about now. Let me share with the House and the Council of State a London reconnaissance. In that system you allow contactless cards where you do not need to buy a special card and load it with money or buy a monthly card. You pay as usual when you travel. It has been tested mainly on buses in London. Once you have reached a certain ceiling within a certain period of time, you continue to travel free of charge – as if it were a day card, weekly card or monthly card. These are simple technical solutions. Tekniken is available, but the joint initiatives shine with their absence. I do not rule out that in the near future we will see these forms of technology pop up each one a bit here and in the country. There are ongoing processes. The great profit arises, if one speaks of intermodal travel, when this travel is coordinated across county and company boundaries and creates common benefits for the traveller. There's a lot to do there. If you want to do it through broader political leadership, you can do it – you can point with your whole hand or half your hand. Creating platforms and spaces for discussions with the industry is a variant. If you choose to go harder, it is another variant. I am happy to continue discussions with the Government on the right way forward, but one thing is certain: coordination needs to be increased at all levels in terms of payment solutions. There is an enormous amount of work to be done here.
i-FXeB9pNb62tkRqA9mfkq8Z	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Erik Ottoson, for sharing suggestions, thoughts and ideas! I also appreciate the awakening interest of the Moderates in consumer policy; I just wish it would have an impact also in the draft budgets from the Moderates with resources for the consumer side. It has never received – unfortunately, because it is also a question of what resources are available if we, socially and politically, are to take greater responsibility to ensure that this type of payment services can be implemented. But I appreciate the commitment. I see a similar line of reasoning in other ex-monopoly markets. I assume that Erik Ottoson thinks that the same legislation should also apply to mobile telephony, energy markets or the like. Personally, I'm not sure it's the right model. I am committed to the issue of creating the best possible conditions for travellers to have a traveler's focus. I will meet with the actors before Christmas– I hope in any case, even if it is tight in the calendar – and now work intensively on the issue. As I said, I am not ruling out the possibility of further initiatives, because that is not possible at the pace that we would like. But in these times of very new technology being implemented, there are also many initiatives going on – many thanks to the government's efforts and the existing national cooperation programmes and many thanks to supported private initiatives. I recently met regional traffic operators who showed their latest systems to facilitate mobility and ticketing. There is therefore a lot going on, and sometimes care should be taken to give directives that are in danger of hampering this development. I am still in a position to take on new knowledge, and I will come if it is necessary to come back to the House with more initiatives.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-363	Madam President, I would like I think it is good that the Government is in a position where he is ready to take on new knowledge. One aspect that I think the Government absolutely needs to take on board is that I believe that the absolute best consumer policy is the one that gives the consumer the right to choose. If we now want to focus on consumer policy, I believe that competition is precisely something that is important for consumers, if only in terms of price levels and the individual's position vis-à-vis suppliers of various kinds. I will also be perfectly honest and say that if he believes that a comparison between the telecoms market and the public transport market is relevant from a competition perspective, we have one or two national economic positions to do, the Government and I, before we land in that conclusion. Finally, I would perhaps like to thank the Government for the debate. I look forward to a continued discussion in these important areas together with the Government.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-367	Madam President, I would like No, my parable was rather one that I wondered if the interpeller would do. I wouldn't dream of doing it myself. Consumer policy is about the ability to choose – it is important – but also about ensuring that consumers get the right information and have access to the right information. Throughout history, it has been a rather tough battle between market players and consumer policy interests to ensure that the consumer receives all the information that it actually provides, and it means information not only about times and prices but also about the conditions for the journey – the way it is procured and the quality requirements that exist. Let us work together to find such solutions. I think it is difficult to find a right-left scale on the question of what information travellers should have. I think we want it to work the most, and if I can help there, of course I will.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-370	Madam President, I would like Erik Ottoson has asked me what measures I intend to take to exploit the benefits of drone technology and what measures I intend to take to deal with the risks posed by drone technology. Furthermore, Erik Ottoson has asked me what the process of the national drone strategy will look like and how I intend to anchor the work on a national drone strategy in Parliament. The Swedish Parliament has announced to the government that it should develop a national strategy and modernised legislation for drones that both affirm the possibilities of new technology and safeguard aviation safety. The Government has announced in the 2018 Budget Bill that the announcement is currently being prepared in the Government Office. At present, I do not want to anticipate this work in terms of how it should be carried out or how it should possibly be anchored in the Riksdag. The Government has presented its view of drones in the Aviation Strategy adopted in January 2017. The aviation strategy shows that drones have great potential in several sectors. It is therefore important to have a regulatory framework that supports technological development and the opportunities offered by technology. In the case of drones in particular, it is also important to take into account issues of privacy, safety and airspace use. Erik Ottoson draws attention in his interpellation to several of the ongoing efforts made to promote the use of drones, which is very positive. I particularly welcome the work that the Swedish Transport Agency has done to revise the national regulations on unmanned aircraft. The proposals aim to promote technology development, manage increased risks with more unmanned aircraft and achieve a clear synchronisation with the aviation strategy's goal of maintaining Sweden's position as a strong and innovative aviation industry. Allow me also to draw attention to the ongoing work on drones in the Government Office and the authorities. It is an important task to consider the need for new regulation at both national and European level. By June 2017, a meeting was held in the Ministry of Industry with officials and experts from the relevant departments and authorities. Swedish experts are actively involved in international efforts to promote and promote Swedish positions on a target – and risk-based regulatory framework that is proportionate and functional. Erik Ottoson mentions the future European regulatory framework proposed by the European Aviation Safety Authority (Easa). It is a work in which Sweden is very much involved. The Government Office has provided a response to the consultation carried out by Easa during the summer. The reply was preceded by a referral to the relevant authorities. Finally, I would like to say that drones are a very exciting area of technology. I am sure we will see further developments in this area, and I am open to constructive input from all interested parties.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-379	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I thought it was a good and interesting answer. Many of the things I mention in my interpellation and the Government in their answer. This is a hot topic that raises many questions and asks many things at its head. In the flight strategy that was left, drones and related items were sparsely mentioned. I think the Government managed to squeeze almost the whole mention into its response – there is not much more to be found. That was also the reason why the Riksdag chose to continue to move forward with the desire for a drone strategy that takes care of these issues on a larger scale. This applies from the regulatory part all the way to the economic policy part, how we see that this industry will develop and what this means for us as a country. There is a lot to do, and I see traces of it in the Government's response. I believe that we fundamentally agree on what needs to be done. Sweden needs to be the country where we use the fantastic conditions we have to allow this industry to develop responsibly, but also to ensure that the regulations comply with them. We have made important progress in this area. I stood here not at all long ago – possibly two years ago – talking to the predecessors of the Government, who said that no such national initiatives had to be taken. It was indeed fortunate that the Swedish Transport Agency landed in a different conclusion and began to take national measures before Easa was clear. However, only a few years ago, all hope would be put in the work done at European level, and we would wait for it. I was of a different opinion, and it was fortunate that the Transport Agency was too. But we need to look at how to develop air traffic management services for this particular form of technology. We need to see if you can start establishing transport routes where this can be flown, perhaps even in densely built environments, in a safe way. In this context, we need to review the possibility of designated emergency landing sites in order to avoid danger to the public, and we need to review the current regulatory framework. You can talk to the industry, which, by the way, can be recommended. I can tell the Government that there is an innovation force and an innovation will that is admirable and very useful to listen to for us politicians. Their description is that the Swedish Transport Agency is doing as best they can with the regulations they have. They lump this into the acquis as best they can, but it is with a lot of effort and a lot of trouble and perhaps not always 100% correct. I believe that from the political level we need to help facilitate this. The EU is doing a very large part, but national regulations will be necessary. I look forward very much to the strategy that is now to be developed. I hope that proper thinking is started at the Ministry of Industry so that you really think through not only how this is to be handled here and now, but also where it is going. The Netherlands is talking about special digital air traffic control services for drones. You stand ready to do this as soon as the industry is in on it. From the political level, one is pushing, on the one hand, to ensure security and, on the other hand, to ensure that one is at the forefront. Other countries are fighting for this technology and for it to be established – in Sweden we are waiting for it to be established. I think there is an important difference between them.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-389	Madam President, I would like I agree that this is a very important issue raised by the interpeller. The interpellant, who previously received some praise and invitation from the Government, can receive further praise. Erik Ottoson has been active on this issue and organised seminars that were very urgent. This was done by Erik Ottoson in 2014 or 2015, when the issues were a little lower on the agenda. After that, the questions, perhaps not only because of Erik Ottoson's seminars but for many other reasons, have been raised higher on the agenda. I can readily admit that a couple of years ago I was a little worried about what development would look like and who would tackle the problems that actually exist when the new technology meets a society that is not really prepared. The clearest example of this is the times you have had to close for example Arlanda and Bromma because drones have entered the control zone over Stockholm. But now, as mentioned here, both the Swedish Transport Agency and the European Commission are working on how we can simplify the use of drones to a greater extent, but also ensure that the great security we have in aviation is exploited and further developed. So I'm much calmer now than a couple of years ago. Some of the initiatives taken are described both in the interpellation and in the interpellation response. We can add others. We have a newly started drone pilot training in Ljungbyhed, which is also a way to conduct marketing and say that Sweden is at the forefront when it comes to drone issues. In Sweden, we develop both applications for drones and how to handle them professionally. I therefore think that Sweden is beginning to be at the forefront of these issues and that a great deal is being done. What I react a little to when I see this interpellation and Parliament's announcement to the government is that, as in the new announcement on the aviation strategy, where the Moderates, among other things, want to redo the strategy, in my opinion, becomes a little too much focus on designing a lot of strategies and little too little focus on actually doing something in reality. I hope that, now that the government is dealing with the announcement of the strategies, it will ensure that this does not mean that the issue is being dragged on long. This is the risk of Moderate initiatives in this area: that all the good initiatives now being taken will stop waiting for new strategies to tell us what to do. That would be very unfortunate. Otherwise, I personally don't think this having or not having a drone strategy is so partisan. If it can add something good, that's a good thing. But, as I said, do not let it impair the work that is now being done. As the interpellier said, the Transport Agency's initiative has meant that it is not just waiting for new EU regulations. On the other hand, the EU regulations and the Transport Agency's initiatives are not quite the same. The EU regulations, as they have been so far when working on them, go a little further. I believe that there is a need for European regulations and a European policy in this area, but we also need to do what we and the government are doing right now, and do well.
i-RhwkveznXRy4WYMrfGBfov	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rikard Larsson and Erik Ottoson for their commitment! Of course, the truth is just in the middle. We in Sweden will have a modern regulatory framework, which is applicable. I think that the example of the incident that occurred, when Arlanda had to be closed for two hours because of a drone that was well away from there, clearly shows the importance of modernising the regulations and making it more applicable. Here the Swedish Transport Agency works; they have that mission from the government. However, since drones will not stay within the borders of the nation, but hopefully also move across borders in the future, we must have a common regulatory framework, for type approval, but above all for travel through the airspace. It is important that we find joint agreements with other European nations that are as technology-positive and forward-looking as we are in Sweden. The starting point for this must, of course, in the first stage, be safety. This is absolutely crucial; no one should doubt that we are putting safety first. I mean safety in a broad sense, not only for the air traffic we have today, but also for you and me, so that drones are not used in a way that actually endangers safety. There are such examples. The second is, of course, respect for privacy. I note that the changed legislation on photography with drones immediately meant that some believed that it was thus free to fly drones everywhere. It's not that simple. It is good that we had modern legislation, but we still need to clarify which rules apply. Then I think that, once we have a regulatory framework in place, it will still be moving matter because this is a rapidly changing development. What I want to take advantage of both Rikard Larsson's and Erik Ottoson's way of reasoning, which I think is good, is that we have to do what I think is fundamentally important because I am a business politician. I see opportunities for Sweden to achieve more efficient delivery of services, to develop new services and products and to create new transport systems that can actually be applied to strengthen our competitiveness. Here's the opportunity. We are a nation that has been very used to quickly taking in and applying new technologies, so I see great opportunities. There is also a strong interest from strong players in the business sector. These are the ones I will consult with before we then say that we are ready and have a clear timetable for a drone strategy. There is a point to what Rikard Larsson says. The Riksdag can order strategies, and of course with my experience from the Riksdag I am very keen that we should also complete the Riksdag's announcements if they are wise and good. But let me be honest: for me, it is also important that we give priority to the work on the good strategy, which is currently going on intensively in the Government Office. The idea is that it should be able to come at the same time as the national plan. It will be extremely important for Sweden from the point of view of economic policy. Here, too, intensive discussions are taking place with sectors to ensure that we develop strategies that are operational and not only talk about strategies in the general sense, but also ensure that we get clear guidelines and directives for market actors in the future. I would also like to make sure that we are in a position to anchor this, not least with representatives of the opposition. In the same way, of course, I would then like to work on questions about the drone strategy: make use of the knowledge of other representatives but not least of the industry, which sees the need to reform the regulatory framework.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-408	Madam President, I would like We are now coming back in the middle of the interrupted debate, and we have all had two hours to consider all the wisdom that emerged in the first round. We discussed, among other things, why a drone strategy is necessary. There is my message that the reason why this is necessary is that this technology was not mentioned sufficiently in the aviation strategy. If you imagine dealing with the problems that arise here and now, you may not need a strategy. But let me paint how it could be and how it is likely to be. There are endless possibilities and infinite potential in this technology for good and for evil. One example is when a mind-spread Member of Parliament– I won't mention any names, because then I hang myself out – forgets my pass at home in the morning, comes halfway to work and says that you can turn around, because otherwise you don't get into the Parliament building, or else you have to go with your hat in hand and request a library card. In a future, it is not impossible that the access card could be delivered with a drone. When you look for missing persons, you already use this technology to find them. When it comes to goods to be delivered all the way from warehouse to door within perhaps one hour of ordering them online, there are experiments that allow what has just been ordered to land on the lawn or balcony within a very short time span. This means that we will have more and more drones and other craft in the air, and that of course makes it completely new demands on the Riksdag, the Government, the Government and our authorities regarding how this is to be regulated. Safety must always be given priority, but we must not forego the opportunities for development, growth and jobs that this may entail. The balance between taking advantage of the potential while safety always comes first is not easy. It can be handled reactively at any given time, absolutely, but long-term and proactively the task is much more difficult. If Sweden were to be the first country in the world to break the code for this balancing process, it would mean that we would become world leader, and that the public and others who risk getting something in their head or in some other way hurt by the technology could feel absolutely safest in the whole world. We have the opportunity to do this, but it requires an initiative. It requires more than reaction to what is happening in the outside world. This requires clear leadership, and that is why Parliament has said that it wants this drone strategy. I hope that the government chooses to take a proactive approach to it once it arrives and does not always have a reactive attitude. There are many good initiatives in this area – we have talked about this before – from authorities, from the industry and from different entities in society, but almost all are just reactive and deal with a concern that exists here and now. Politics is certainly about wanting and setting the agenda, but it is also largely about looking around the corners. It's about being able to play chess and predict what's going on four five moves forward, because that's the only way we can be really proactive and take care of this incredibly changing matter that's stalking us all the time.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-417	Madam President, I would like I'll pick up where Erik Ottoson left off. He was talking about breaking the code. I do not really believe that there is such a code to be broken, but I think that the important thing in this matter is actually to organise and be prepared to meet the new challenges and to be able to see and identify as many of the challenges that exist here and now and in the future. But being able to react is also important, because there will be new challenges. This is nothing unique to the drone issue. This is what always happens when we introduce new technologies. It was so when we linked cybersecurity and discussed it in combination with the internet – the internet that gave everyone the opportunities it brings but also threats. That was also the case when the car was introduced. When the cars arrived, there was a new type of accident that had not occurred to that extent before. The new technology led to another type of crime, such as car theft. The car could be used for crime, but it also provided great opportunities. This is therefore not really a unique issue in that this technological leap is different from other technological leaps. You can do a lot of good with the new technology, but a lot of threats and a lot of pain also follows. I believe that the important thing in this is, as the government is doing now, to ensure that there are several different tracks where regulation is reviewed. The Swedish Transport Agency has its assignments, and you look at control zones, for example. We have an EU track that looks at the use of drones and see who we can sell drones to and what is required in terms of registration, drone pilot training and so on. This can be combined with what Erik Ottoson says. Talk to the industry but make it wide, because there are a lot of areas involved in this issue.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-421	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rikard Larsson and Erik Ottoson! This is a fascinating discussion because we are a little perplexing on possible scenarios for the future. Then we have to do what Swedish politics usually is good at: We find both future scenarios and develop regulations to meet technological developments, but we also ensure that we do not expose gaps in current legislation. Erik Ottoson described it as good to be able to play chess, and it suits me who is an old chess player. I like the idea and the analogy, that is to be able to see what it means in the long run. The work of the Swedish Transport Agency is of course incredibly important when it comes to anticipating and being able to ensure that we have good enforcement rules, but also when it comes to seeing politically what opportunities and risks there are. Erik Ottoson mentioned a few examples. I note that, as far as pesticides and potato cultivation are concerned, drone strategies are now being implemented and that it is being done with dangerous missions in the mining industry. In this way, we can line up many possibilities. I would like to believe that there should be both an industry and creative people who will develop this industry in a good way. But I also know that just as inventive are people who aim to carry out acts of terrorism and attacks, disrupt privacy in other ways and use new technologies to sabotage what we are defending. So we must constantly ensure that we have the opportunity not only to create a regulatory framework that is possible to follow, but which is also possible to maintain and which enables us to intervene when it is misused. Here I see similarities with the work we do with geofencing, connected car and self-driving cars where we develop new legislation that sees the possibilities but where we also see how new technology can limit the applications within special zones. That's the point of departure, isn't it? We will continue to work in the near future, of course, to prepare the announcement and then gather as much information as possible with the actors that exist. We will need to update the legislation regularly, and I will follow this closely. I have no worries about taking on board both Rikard Larsson's and Erik Ottoson's wisdom in this work, but above all there is a growing industry that sees the opportunities. The ambition can be no other than that we in Sweden should be at the forefront. We shall have modern legislation that is applicable. And we shall do this in harmony with our European friends in the European Union. These are traffic that will increase across borders. It is technology that will have an increased use and that affects air traffic, and it is an internationally regulated market. It is therefore important that we have good international legislation in this area. I'm gonna follow that one, too.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-429	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to listen to both Rikard Larsson and the Government, which describes all the different consequences, conditions and development opportunities in the area. I agree with every part that has been brought forward. But it makes it even more incomprehensible to me that there is opposition to a strategy to take a holistic approach and to question that need. It is rather a confirmation that such a holistic approach is needed. As far as the security implications of the Government are concerned – in terms of what regulations to have, how to fly at geofencing and to maintain that form of regulation and legislation – I have had discussions with the Ministers' colleagues in the area of justice on this. It is about how we are going to combat terrorist crimes, combat other crimes that occur from the air and what opportunities the police have to prosecute and remedy, that is to say stop, that form of crime. To this day, there are really two ways in which the police can go about it: either finding the pilot or pulling the service weapon. The second option may not be entirely desirable. I've been going on about this, and the police were just as reluctant as the former Home Secretary when it comes to getting to grips with it. But now it's starting to come loose. It is recognised that new technologies need to be procured in order to stop ongoing crime from the air. It's extremely important. There have even been repeated incidents in the neighborhoods around us here, where the government of the kingdom has its seat. It is clear that there is a threat that is getting worse and complicated. Then I do not understand the opposition to marrying this in the form of a strategy.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-433	Madam President, I would like I cannot quite understand how Erik Ottoson can interpret my answers as being actively opposed to a strategy. It's the other way around. We prepare the question in the Government Office. The announcement came as late as March. And I'm a thorough person. At the moment we develop a strategy, it should also play a role and be firmly anchored, in what is scientific evidence and the government's evidence – we have just discussed the evidence that has been produced in the near future. I would also like to have a good dialogue with the industry, so that we know that we are up to date. I would also like to ensure that proposals and strategies are properly anchored, much the same as I explained earlier that we are working on the good strategy. It's important. It is not good enough to develop a paper strategy that you can wave and win short political points with if it is completely obsolete within six months. If we are to meet the challenge of developing a national drone strategy, it should be in a way that meets the challenge in the security field but of course also the industry challenges that exist. Then it takes solid work. That is why I will prepare the matter carefully in the Government Office, given the announcement that exists. I respect that. I think, based on my experience from my work in Parliament, that one should have respect for announcements. In essence, however, is also a flight strategy, which is now a basic document for not least the Arlanda Council that I lead. There I meet actors in the aviation field, who also share good knowledge in the drone field. Once again, I thank Erik Ottoson for his commitment. It is good that there are members of parliament who are involved in developing industries but who also see threats and risks. It is also good that in politics we are constantly and jointly pushing our authorities to comply with adequate legislation and look around the corner. Let us hope that the chess playing qualities will benefit us in this context and that we will continue to have opportunities to discuss drone strategies.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-439	Madam President, I would like Erik Ottoson has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure Arlanda's role as hub for aviation in northern Europe, and to establish more intercontinental direct lines between Arlanda and important cities in other parts of the world, and to establish a direct line between Arlanda and Haneda in Tokyo. Arlanda Airport will be the leading major airport in the Nordic region. An important part of strengthening Arlanda's role as a hub in the long term is the establishment of the Arlanda Council. The Council, of which I myself chair, has the task of being an advisory body for the exchange of experience between the government and representatives of authorities, industry, state-owned companies and others. The Arlanda Council has begun its work. A particularly important task will be to contribute advice and recommendations to the work begun within the Government Office to develop a flight plan Arlanda. The purpose of the road map is to develop Arlanda Airport in the long term, through a traffic-wide holistic approach covering the airport, airspace, connecting transport and infrastructure on the ground as well as access to other airports in the Stockholm region. At the same time, aviation's increasing emissions pose a major challenge, and the development of Arlanda must be sustainable from an environmental and climate point of view. The climate is one of the three key priorities of the government. Intercontinental direct lines out of Arlanda are, as Erik Ottoson points out, important for several reasons. Here too, the Arlanda Council has an important role to play. The government is further working on the issue of introducing pre-clearance at Arlanda Airport, which would give potential for more direct connections with the US. The basis for air traffic between Sweden and third countries, outside the EU, lies the bilateral air service agreements. Sweden strives to enter into as open agreements as possible, so that the aviation policy conditions for more direct routes will exist. Finally, with regard to the issue of direct flights between Arlanda and Haneda in Tokyo, SAS is currently referred to using Narita, under the air services agreements that the Scandinavian countries have with Japan. The government conducts, at different levels, a dialogue with Japanese authorities on the possibility of using Haneda. But it has not yet proved possible. However, the government does not tire out in its efforts to bring about a change that is urgent for a number of reasons. In this context, I would like to emphasise that what the government can hopefully do in the long term is to enable flights to Haneda. It is then up to the airlines if a direct line is to be established.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-447	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Government for its answer. He didn't say it, but the smile revealed that he thinks it's funny that we have four interpellations in a row. I tried to save myself and the government a little trouble by trying to collect it, so that we can be here one night instead of four. Arlanda is and will be the leading airport in the Nordic region. The Government agrees with that. He describes the important conditions for Swedish aviation to function well and for us to reach the world and the world to reach Sweden and describes flight plans and Arlanda Council. But he does not say a word about the restraint that has been put on Swedish flights in and out of Sweden because the government has announced that it wants to introduce a flight tax. The most immediate change a flight tax would mean is not that the flight between Stockholm and Luleå or especially many of our domestic flights decrease. Rather, it is about the direct lines, which are so easy to move, perhaps ending up in Copenhagen instead. That's why the reasoning becomes a little strange for me – I think even for those who listen to the debate – when you want to strengthen Arlanda and say that... Arlanda Airport should be the leading major airport in the Nordic region. At the same time, it makes it impossible for Arlanda to be such a hub towards the rest of the world and to be able to take the intercontinental lines. Numerous airlines – SAS, Norwegian and others – announced directly that, if the air tax is introduced, the intercontinental routes will be moved, likely to Copenhagen, Hamburg, Frankfurt or elsewhere. It's very easy to move. Therefore, my question to the Government is: how can he describe with honour this very comprehensive strategy for Swedish aviation and for Arlanda as hub in northern Europe while representing a government with this proposal? I do not think it is entirely honest with the voters and travellers. And why is it so important to have these intercontinental lines here? Well, the answer to that question is that it is about exchanges with other parts of the world and controlling investments from other parts of the world to Sweden and vice versa. Then as much as one or possibly two stopovers are something that makes this more difficult, I think we agree with each other. This increases travel times. It reduces opportunities for exchange. This causes our growth to suffer in the long run. How does the Government now intend to highlight Arlanda to become the leading airport in the Nordic region with it in its luggage that it will be more expensive to land here than to land in Copenhagen. What's he been thinking?
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-455	Madam President, I would like Then it finally came to pass. Not an interpellation debate with a moderate without mentioning the tax! Surely it is the case that moderate Members end up landing on the issue of taxation. Self - confident statements are made as to the effect of any increase in taxes and the miracle of reduced taxes. Now it is a matter of fact that I am part of a government, and I have participated in the work here in Parliament to clear up after the former moderate-led government that left behind 60 billion in budget shots, sky-high unemployment and a drained public economy as a result of far-reaching promises on the tax side. Among other things, they took an industry as a witness to truth. Moderate representatives stood here in the speaker's chair and said that Max, McDonald's and others warned their employees against choosing a Social Democratic-led government, because then the proposal to reduce social security contributions would certainly be disastrous for youth unemployment. The removal of subsidies to this industry would be a disaster scenario. Yes, we came to power. We removed the billion-dollar subsidies targeted at certain industries. Youth unemployment is now the lowest in 14 years. One should be a little humble when uttering far - reaching prophecies about the effect of various taxes. This applies to aviation taxes, climate taxes and taxes in the field of transport policy, as well as to general taxes. What we should be careful about is that we recognise that taxes are an instrument for financing important joint investments – this in order to maintain a good standard. For example, we set aside SEK 100 billion more in the national infrastructure plan than the then alliance government had to do. Taxes can also be important instruments and signals, not least in terms of aviation's ability to adapt and meet the climate challenges that the whole world sees in the future, except sometimes some representatives of the opposition. I am not at all worried about Arlanda's development. On the contrary, I believe that Arlanda will continue to have a strong expansion for aviation, not least international aviation. The strong increase in exports that we are seeing today in Sweden as a result of a strong industrial policy, as a result of increasing employment and large investments, means that aviation will continue to have good opportunities. I hope that it will be a flight that better meets the climate challenges that we have. That is why we are also investing in opportunities for aviation to gradually implement the change on the fuel side that other parts of the vehicle type have been able to make. I have been there myself – not least at GKN in Trollhättan – and visited the production there to see the technical development of how to meet other demands on the fuel side, but it will take time. When it takes time, it is important to remember that the climate cannot wait. The signals must be clear. The first thing I want to say is that if we want to protect Arlanda and aviation, we as politicians must also be clear and dare to talk about the challenges that it means to meet the climate challenge. Then the interpellation is addressed to me, not on the basis of a tax policy question – then Magdalena Andersson might have answered it – but on the basis of how Arlanda will develop. Nevertheless, I would like to know whether Erik Ottoson shares my view that Arlanda will need to develop in the future to be the international logistics centre that it means with a focus on being a transport centre for the whole of northern Europe and whether the Moderates have any idea of how this can be done with a drained public economy as they do not have sufficient resources to make the necessary investments in society to enable Arlanda to cope with competition, not least with Kastrup.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-464	Madam President, I would like It is an obvious social democratic strategy to do what one can to defile the fiscal policy conducted under the previous government. One can have such a strategy, be it, but then the memory must be a little longer than what the Government and his colleagues sound like in different contexts. It is very easy to forget about the biggest financial crisis since the depression. It is very easy to forget your own proposals in this House about greater spending, greater public finance deficits and calls for more resources without revenue coverage. It is very easy to forget this, Madam President. Let us remember that Sweden is still one of the very few countries that made it best out of the financial crisis, yes, after a recession, after difficult economic situations there are often deficits. In a boom of fire, Madam President, it would be strange if youth unemployment were not affected as well. That, if anything, would be a scandal. But, as I said, this is not an economic debate like that. But it is definitely relevant to Arlanda's future whether or not you tax flights. When talking about the big and important environmental issue, remember that the tax now proposed by the government has approximately the same environmental benefit as removing New Year fireworks and smoking. It is in this parity that this extremely important and decisive environmental effort should be put forward by the Government here. I apologise, Madam President, but I cannot hide my sarcasm in this context. This puts these direct lines at risk of moving. I am not trying to be bombastic when I say this, but it is data that comes from others than me. They come from those who actually decide where the lines will go. As the Government puts it so well at the end of its reply: ..................................................... If it is the case that if you have a tax in Sweden that you do not have to pay in Denmark, it would be remarkable if you choose to do this only because of your general goodwill in Sweden. I think we both have great ambitions for how Sweden will develop. We should remember that there we do not divorce. I don't know how the Government connects the development of the welfare state with our direct lines to the rest of the world. It is clear that there is a very vague connection, but the Government is happy to develop exactly how it is connected. A strong Swedish economy comes from important structural reforms where we take responsibility for ensuring that more people enter the labour market and help make us a competitive nation on the international market, absolutely. It also has a major impact on who gets and does not get direct lines to various important parts of the world. However, the fact that an environmental tax corresponding to emissions from New Year's fireworks and cigarette smoking would be part of moving direct lines to, for example, Kastrup, I do not understand. The Government must excuse me, but I do not think it is a sincere way of speaking to the voters outside this room when you describe this as a major environmental effort that will have important consequences and that is important for us to meet the climate targets. I, too, am extremely committed to climate issues, Madam President. We'd be happy to bring them up in another discussion--I promise to make such an interpellation.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-474	Madam President, I would like Erik Ottoson is right in one thing: it is structural reforms that determine economic development. It is clear that eight years of underinvestment in things that build a country strong – such as underinvestment in education, in housing, in infrastructure, not least in rail – made us face a rather big challenge in 2014, because the former government gave more priority to a few hundred quid more in the wallet for private consumption than the necessary investments needed to build a country strong. Now we are in a situation of massive investment in the housing sector, and we have had this for a long time. It will not be enough to meet the entire housing shortage that exists after all the years of underinvestment. But about 75 000 homes are being built now, which is considerably more than during the time when Sweden had an alliance government. We can spend 100 billion more on investment in infrastructure. We can make great efforts to meet the lack of properly trained skills that will soon be in place in all parts of the Swedish labour market, since they did not invest in adult education, higher education, adult education or other education sectors. The way you make the bed, you get to lie down. These investments are now being made, and they are being made in a situation where we have 80 billion in surplus in the state finances. We can spend EUR 40 billion on actually paying off public debt while spending EUR 40 billion on reforms. It is not about a strategy to blacken down how Anders Borg and the alliance government faced the economic crisis. It is a matter of carefully and honestly describing what actually happened. Even as late as 2013 and 2014, SEK 12 million a day was borrowed to continue making major tax cuts instead of making necessary investments. Present party leader Ulf Kristersson left behind a 12 billion large increase in health insurance, despite the introduction of proposals that meant that approximately 100 000 people were sorted out. It was a poorly managed economy, as it usually is when we have a bourgeois government. This does not create the best conditions for building strong infrastructure or strong competitive opportunities for Sweden in the world's export markets. Now the export goes up. Now it's increasing. Now we open direct lines to Los Angeles, Hong Kong and most recently New Delhi. Obviously, the world and export companies see something that moderate members of parliament do not see: that Sweden is doing well and that this is a country that is being invested in. Therefore, I am confident in the hope that we can continue to develop Arlanda. There are also many years of underinvestment. I can myself be impressed by how Denmark has systematically worked to strengthen Kastrup's role. Let us be inspired by the work that has been done in Denmark. And let us also be inspired by how other countries are strengthening their hubs, their national hubs for infrastructure, because we will need that if we, as a small export-dependent welfare country, are to be able to assert ourselves in the world's export markets. If we do this, and also do it in a way that contributes to climate-smart conversion, this will not only arouse wonder or impress, but it will also give Swedish business opportunities. For today, the fact that Volvo and Scania are making major progress in the transport sector depends, among other things, on their being better able to cope with the changeover than many other competitors. In the same way, it is my hope that in aviation and other modes of transport we will be able to make this transition in a necessary way, not only for political-moral reasons because we must, but also in order to have great success for Sweden. I am not at all worried about having a courageous policy that challenges and sees the climate challenges that exist. I would be more concerned if we had a fearful policy that does not dare to face the challenges of the future.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-484	Madam President, I would like It is not an easy task to respond in two minutes to all very wide-ranging and in many parts strange statements from the Government about the system of things. It is quick to make claims, but it takes a small seminar to disprove them. However, we can take it on another occasion and instead try to focus a little on some of the key elements of what the Government and I are discussing now. It is about the competitiveness of Sweden and how we can in this way make Arlanda grow. Let me just remind you that it was an alliance majority that improved public transport to Arlanda by ensuring that commuter trains now stop there. Let me remind you that Arlanda Express came about under a bourgeois government, and it has worked well so far, I think. I know there are many points of view on this, but I think this is very important infrastructure that came about for Arlanda. Otherwise, it would probably not have been in place. Let me also remind you that Arlanda has grown tremendously during the year of the Alliance in the government, and that it continues to do so. When the Government now says that a Social Democratic government happens to be in power during a boom and that we have a strong economy in Sweden, it is of course quite natural. It would be a disaster if we did not have a strong economy during a boom. Nevertheless, Madam President, we are not where we should be. If this is to go well, I and the Government will have to help each other, but I don't think we're as equipped as we need to for the recession that's coming. The government mentions an air connection to Los Angeles. If I may conclude with this example, the connection is probably one of those who risk disappearing if the airline tax is implemented. This would harm Arlanda and Sweden, despite the fine economic boom that the Government is now taking advantage of.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-488	Madam President, I would like I entered the Reichstag in 1994 and spent a great many years cleaning up the state finances after the then bourgeois government, which had completely driven them into trouble. Unemployment was sky high, and budget deficits were high. It was anything but order and order in the state finances. This, of course, characterizes my political act so that I constantly want to ensure that it is orderly. That is why I support the fiscal rules that we have. That is why I am also annoyed when one does not take the effects of a poorly conducted economic policy seriously. It is true that the world had an economic crisis in 2008 and 2009. It could be met with various efforts, but there is no doubt that the verdict will fall hard, and do so, over the effort that Anders Borg made as Minister of Finance in 2012, 2013 and 2014. It did not see the need to invest in order to meet the so-called economic challenge. Instead, they continued to borrow and placed Sweden in a position of 60 billion in budget deficits. Now we have 80 billion in surplus because we are a government that invests and because we are making the right efforts so that people can enter the labour market. That is why unemployment is also falling. Therefore, youth unemployment is the lowest in 14 years. If I am to link to the question of interpellation: Yes, it is the fundamental structural changes that allow investment in infrastructure. I have SEK 100 billion more on the government's table to make investments. It will not serve all interests. Many will find that there are still more things that should be done. However, it is still considerably greater economic muscle we now have to make more investments because the national economy is actually better. It is because of political decisions and efforts, not large subsidies aimed at certain industries. I am positive about Arlanda's development. I am happy to have broad talks with the opposition on this. And I will lead the Arlanda Council to make sure that together with the industry we strengthen Arlanda as our most important hub in the future.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-494	Before we move on to the next interpellation, I would like to remind the Government and the interpellant that it is a good idea to stick to the topics of the interpellations.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-495	Madam President, I would like Erik Ottoson has asked me what measures I intend to take to achieve full funding for Tvärländen Södertörn, when I consider that the construction start for Tvärländen Södertörn can take place, and whether I and the Government believe that Tvärländen Södertörn is a priority project. On 31 August 2017, the Finnish Transport Administration submitted its proposal for a new national traffic law-crossing plan for the period 2018 – 2029 to the Government. Cross-connection Södertörn has been postponed in Trafikverket's proposal compared to the current plan and is proposed to start construction in 2021 – 2023 with a planned completion after 2029. According to Trafikverket, the reason for the delay is a substantial increase in the cost of the object. However, the Swedish Transport Administration intends to analyse the possible introduction of infrastructure charges on the cross-connection Södertörn, which according to Trafikverket can enable an earlier implementation. The Swedish Transport Administration's proposal for a national plan has been a broad consultation and will be prepared in the usual way within the Government Office. What the final plan will look like, the government will decide on in the spring of 2018, and I therefore cannot today comment on individual objects.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-497	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer, which is very correct and technically correct. We have previously discussed his accuracy in different contexts, and it is clear that a half-pedant individual who signed up appreciates this. Consider my surprise, Madam President, when I read in the newspaper Huddinge Directly on 21 October this year the following quotation from the Government: Just look at how much it's built around here. –– Now I have to check whether we have the opportunity to re-prioritise in the Swedish negotiation, but also what opportunities we have to be able to provide more money. I'll turn all the stones around. The heading reads "The Minister of Flemingsberg": "The cross-connection becomes 中". In the Government's response to the Riksdag – the people's main representative or something like that – it may not be quite as cross-confident. Then I wonder: Why can the Government give a firm answer in the media but not a message at all when we stand here in Parliament and talk about the question, when he is so very careful that it should be right? Trafikverket's planning describes the large increase in costs. I have to mention the background. There was a mistake in planning. It chose to plan the route in four different sections, but it then landed that this was not compatible with some international directives coming from the European Union. Then you had to do everything over again, with new environmental tests and a cost increase. It was a mistake that happened at state level. The conclusion so far seems to be that mistakes at state level should be paid through regional co-financing, which has been discussed in different contexts. It's unfortunate. If this very important relationship is to be established, which is, of course, a project among many, but which the Government seems to have a keen interest in in different contexts, albeit not in this House, we probably need to take a slightly larger holistic approach. I would also like to say that there are other projects of those discussed in the framework of the national action plan – this concerns, for example, the discussion about high-speed investments and other things that my party has noted were too expensive – which could be part of the financing of, for example, this road, because it is important. The road is important not only for the Stockholm region. It is absolutely important for the Stockholm region as well, but also for Swedish exports. It is a crucial link for exploiting the full capacity of the new port being built in Norvik, where large quantities of export and import goods will arrive at and depart from the Swedish quay. The traffic situation will be dimensional to this port's ability to reach its full potential, unless traffic efforts are fully funded. These are my thoughts on the subject. I'm very interested in hearing the Council of State.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-504	Madam President, I would like Government and Erik Ottoson! It is clear that Cross-connection Södertörn is an issue that is important for the entire Stockholm region, which is also agreed throughout the Stockholm region. Last week Storsthlm, the old Association of Local Authorities Stockholm County, agreed on a whole joint consultation, where you really sign on the importance of this project. I can surely tell Erik Ottoson, Madam President, that I have great confidence that the Minister for Infrastructure is really turning all the stones around to try to get this done. It is also the case that I and others from this region have worked very actively and consciously to explain the problem of Tvärländen Södertörn, because it is about quite a lot of different things. Erik Ottoson mentions Norvik's harbour. It should be ready for opening by 2020. But the start of the construction after what Erik Ottoson calls in his interpellation a bureaucratic error, which may not be true to the truth, will not happen until 2021. Of course it's an incredibly big problem. One reason for the increase in costs and delays is the establishment of a nature reserve in Huddinge municipality during the planning process. Of course everyone wants this to work well. That's why this tunnel solution comes about, which takes so much longer. But somehow this has to happen, because we have huge challenges in the region. There is an imbalance in the region between the north and the south. About half live on either side, but only one third of the jobs are located on the south side. Cross-connection could make it easier for us to find new jobs and increase housing construction on the south side, but also to ensure smart and efficient travel from the south to the north. If you get a little bit about the future, perhaps the very best thing that could happen is that we got a real, modern and fresh public transport solution that really linked the southern side to the northern side in a cross-connection that could not only be environmentally friendly and get more people to travel collectively but could also facilitate and relieve the existing public transport. With today's population growth in the Stockholm region, all existing infrastructure is currently overloaded. It needs to be done very much. Cross-connection Södertörn is one of the solutions that must be found. I hope and believe that the Minister for Infrastructure takes our concerns very seriously. If we do not get to Tvärkontakt Södertörn, we will continue to have incredibly big problems. This has to happen as soon as possible. The practical problem is linked to the tunnel solution. The nature reserve in Huddinge has contributed to this problem and this shift. This is the fact that we agree with. Building permits will not be ready until 2021, and unfortunately there is nothing we can change.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-509	Madam President, I would like I thank Erik Ottoson for giving me the opportunity in this House to talk about what I have told the media, namely that I myself was as surprised as many others at the quote in Huddinge Direct, which was not correct. We've made sure we get a correction. I am not speaking about individual objects during this time. I've been very careful not to. This applies whether we are talking about Norrbotniabanan, Cross-connection Södertörn or other objects. I'll be careful of that. I have the respect for the consultation bodies. We pointed this out. In addition, there were a number of other errors in that article. It relates to the Swedish hearing instead of the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal. I think some change was made in Huddinge Directly. I was there and visited the business and got a very good presentation from the various local representatives. I have received good information about why regional representatives think Tvärkomnändning Södertörn is an incredibly important initiative. That is, of course, what I take with me throughout the consultation period. But I was wrongly quoted in the media, and it is important to emphasise that. It is important to remember that the reason for the delay was that the proposal had to be lifted out of the plan, and in fact the government did so in 2013. So it was the previous government that pulled the proposal out of the plan and was forced to take a turn. I'm sure we know the background here. Of course, both Cross-connection Södertörn and other projects will be weighed against what is nationally useful and good in the future. In the Stockholm region, I know that there is a debate going on, not least within the interpellant's own party, about an eastern connection versus cross-connection Södertörn. I myself have noted that there is now a view that high-speed trains are too expensive. Let me remind you that it was an opinion that moderate representatives also held in 2007 and 2008, but not in 2014. At that time it was very urgent, as was stated in Almedalen. Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt promised fast traffic between Stockholm and Gothenburg after investments in high-speed trains. So it went two years, and now the opposition is once again back in the position that it is too expensive. I am among those who think that commitments for long-term investment in infrastructure should have longer sustainability than any year. That's why it's important that we find out what the Moderates think in the future. Although it is the government itself that decides on the national infrastructure plan, I am anxious that decisions should bear long-term responsibility. It might be interesting to have the opportunity to hear if Erik Ottoson can tell us if the Moderates now have a more long-term approach to the high-speed train and to what extent they could get rid of in Sweden or not. On the basic issue, all regional representatives can present their views on the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal. Tomorrow I will meet the county planners with political representation from all over the country. The interesting dynamic then occurs that everyone across the country is told what everyone in the country thinks are the most important regional priorities. What I think is important and good is if regional coordination is possible. It seems that the Stockholm region has had a good political process which now agrees on what are the most important priorities. If so, it is a good signal for further work.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-517	Madam President, I would like I will try to pay tribute to the reminder of the President at the beginning of one of our debates to stick to the subject. That is why I intend to deal very briefly with the issue of high-speed trains. In fact, something happened after 2014. We got much more accurate calculations, and the costs increased significantly. If the question is whether the trains are too expensive or not, the price must also have its share in this. If the Government is interested in what we in the Moderate Party think, we have had a voice just recently. I believe that the Minutes have begun to become public. Unless otherwise, the decisions are definitely available to the Government for evening reading and other things, whatever he now chooses to do after the debate. When it comes to Tvärnändning Södertörn, I chose to ask Teres Lindberg a control question about which nature reserve this applies. I asked if it was the Masmo Mountain Nature Reserve. That is what has been set up in the course of the process. So it is one of the ends of the route. There are other very large natural values along the route. But they would not have affected the project if it had not fallen through. It was environmentally tested against old environmental legislation. This project has been going on since the early 80s. The environmental test that was completed and approved long before was against an old environmental legislation. When one had to make a take-over because of this planning mistake, it meant cost increases because it was then new environmental legislation that needed to be tested against the project. That meant the really big changes. The environmental values have been there all along. I am absolutely convinced that both myself and Teres Lindberg, the Government and everyone else concerned think it is fundamentally good that the project is being tested against new environmental legislation along the entire route and also through Flemingsbergsskogen and Stensättra as it now stands. There are great environmental values. I myself move in those areas at regular intervals. It is extremely valuable nature and key biotopes, and it is about the only quiet places on the south side of Stockholm. Then it costs money. It is sad that the quotation from the Government was as misquoted as it was. As local politicians, as you are to some extent sometimes, you became almost a bit full of hope when you read it. But it ensured that the Government cut down effectively in this Chamber. Well, I guess that's regrettable. I note that there is also a clear movement within the Social Democrats for this to come through. I know that there are a significant number of social democratic councillors, opposition councillors and obviously Teres Lindberg, who are behind the initiative and think it is important. What is worrying and has been worrying all the way through the project is the resistance that exists in the other government party where it openly criticises and opposes this very important part of Stockholm's transport infrastructure on the southern side. It is actively opposed and partly supported by the appeals that led to the takeover. It's boring. It is something that stops the development and growth on the south side that Teres Lindberg described in such a fine way as disproportionately bad compared to the north side of the city. There is an imbalance in the Stockholm region because of this. That is why one of my supplementary questions to the Government is that does he consider that at some stage a united government will be able to go forward with road projects and not just high-speed trains?
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-530	Madam President, I would like I cannot stress enough the importance of cross-connection with Södertörn. Of course there are great natural values here, and of course they are important. But it's not a bureaucratic error. That's not how you should see it. The changes that have occurred have led the Finnish Transport Administration to choose to lead instead of being preceded. In the end, it will mean that it will still be a faster procedure, even if it is far too slow. In the best of worlds, the cross-connection had been completed before Norvik's port opens. Norvik's port will have problems from the first day and for a long time to come, which is not a success for our region. What we need to focus on is what opportunities cross-connection Södertörn creates. This is true despite the lack of planning of the Passage which my party is not responsible for, but those who are still in charge of Stockholm County Council. In the best of worlds, we manage to get a smart, efficient public transport solution that connects even though we missed planning public transport on the Passage. But the challenges here are huge. Above all, the big challenge is to get a solution that we can show to the rest of the world that will be both good, efficient and smart for the Stockholms and for the transport that we will continue to have regardless of what we think about cars, roads and so on.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-536	Madam President, I would like The conditions for the government are quite simple. We have SEK 100 billion more in framework for the investments to be made. That's 622.5 billion plus 90 billion in other fees. That is at least 712.5 billion, which is considerably more space than we had last time it was a national plan. That is, of course, gratifying, because there has been considerable underinvestment. Now the proposals are out for a referral from the Swedish Transport Administration. The Finnish Transport Agency's proposal is not a constitution. There can, of course, always be changes. Proposals can be moved both forward and back and changed. We've learned that all through the ages. My task is to listen to us in the government and then to draw the correct conclusions and make a good proposal. I will be careful to listen to all the different regional stakeholders and reward if you are regionally united and prioritise things together. But of course it is also true that we have done an accurate analysis of how it helps to keep the country together, strengthen competitiveness, clear climate change, implement new technologies and other things that we think are important. It is also that I have to look at the interests of the whole nation. Sometimes investments in the Stockholm region can have that effect. We see from some examples that they affect the railway structure throughout the country or otherwise improve the good strategy and strengthen the country's competitiveness. But sometimes investments will also have to be made in other parts of the country. As a small-timer, I will be careful to protect everyone's interests. I will be as cheap as the Minister for Finance in ensuring that the money is spent in the best possible effective way. I will follow the line of not giving an opinion on the various projects. On the other hand, it was incredibly valuable to be in place and see how local and regional perceptions have now been made of the clear ambition of this government to link infrastructure investments with housing construction. We now have for the first time an action plan, a national plan from Trafikverket that combines infrastructure investments with housing construction. It is really strange that it has not been done before. It's so obvious. We cannot just build infrastructure, but we must put it in relation to the building of society that is going on. Regional enlargement takes place through smart infrastructure and housing to which the labour force and many others can apply. Now this is going on. That is why the regional presentations I receive are also important, because then I see how we have thought about developing the cities of the future so that we do not repeat mistakes that previous generations have sometimes made: building large residential areas with terrible communication opportunities. Thank you again for giving me the opportunity to correct what was a wrong task in the media! I appreciate that there is a strong commitment not least to cross-connection Södertörn. Everyone realises that this will involve difficult priorities, and I am sure that everyone can regret that there will be serious delays in almost most infrastructure projects in the future. Let us hope that we can find good funding opportunities and broad support for the priorities we will be making. But to return to what is the basic point: this is where we can make the investments. It is now that we are gaining economic muscle to make the right investments. And, as usual, when the government makes proposals, it is the whole government that supports these proposals. We will do this in spring 2018.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-546	Madam President, I would like During this evening's interpellation debates, the Government has thrown itself in the position that the next national plan is 100 billion larger than the previous one. That's good. That is something that my party matches. We do not in any way have any other plans for future finances. It is also quite natural that every new plan should be expanded at the rate that is possible. This was also done with previous national plans. The last time a national plan shrunk, I don't think I was born, but maybe the government was. If we now talk about what fits and does not fit in a national plan, we should remember that the 100 billion that the Government is talking about does not even cover half of the high-speed investment, which he also says he wants. That puts things a little bit at their head. As far as priorities are concerned across the country, I still believe that without high-speed trains, but with an expanded railway, we will be able to make more effective efforts throughout the country and throughout the system, which will have an impact more quickly throughout the country. We will do this without, at the same time, spending several billions of dollars on something that will not be clear until perhaps I myself am considerably older than most in this House at the moment. Madam President, I would like It is a concern on the south side of town and for the whole nation when the Government chooses to spend money on one big project rather than on all the smaller projects that collectively can have a much greater impact.
i-9b7b8f03479d65e3-550	Madam President, I would like Let me correct the interpeller Erik Ottoson. The Government, me, is not putting either one project or several projects in this context. On behalf of the Government, the Finnish Transport Agency has drawn up a proposal for infrastructure investments based on the existing framework. After the consultation, the Government will then consider which projects are to be made, how they are to be financed and what form they should take. At the moment, there is a rather intense social debate on this. The government has also chosen to pursue the project that the former government, the alliance government, started. It was then called the construction of Sweden, and it then became the Swedish negotiation, where this government said: Let us not get into a situation where we change politics in all areas, especially the long-term ones, just because there is a change of government! Let us try to safeguard the importance of long-term rules of play and processes in the same way as in energy policy and defence policy! Therefore, Sweden's negotiations under HG Wessberg's leadership continued to work. They will present their final report in December this year. The former Moderate State Secretary has thus led a process in which the conditions for high-speed trains in Sweden have been negotiated and will report this to the Government. It is one of the bases for the national plan. When it is presented, it will be the single document for the infrastructure investments that we will make in Sweden over the next eleven years.
