i-a1733e3bc56419f0-21	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by saying that we Moderates have a specific opinion on the area of expenditure to which I refer, and we also have our own motion which is a little more detailed. We Moderates have a positive basic view of both openness and cross-border mobility. The prosperity we enjoy today is largely based on trade with other countries. It has hardly been obvious to a small country at the top of northern Europe, where it is also cold in large parts of the year, to be able to build this prosperity. But we have done so thanks to hard work, great know-how and, not least, trade with the outside world and openness to it. The vision is that man should be able to move around the world. This is also driven by the fact that the humanitarian needs in the world are very great. Millions of people are on the run, in their own country or someone else's. Although our history in Sweden of helping people escape is long, the events of recent years have had major consequences. In just two years, a quarter of a million people came to Sweden as asylum seekers – a development that we have never seen before and which, of course, presents us with a wide range of questions and balances. During their term of office, the Moderates have put their energies into changing our migration policy after the new reality we have come to experience. We stand for a long-term and sustainable migration policy. It is long-term from the perspective that laws and regulations in Sweden must apply over time instead of jumping back and forth. This is of course important for authorities, municipalities and civil society, who need to be able to plan for their important activities. But it is also important for those people who apply for asylum in Sweden to be able to feel confident that what has been said will also apply. It is obvious that rules must be able to change when necessary, but I hope that we will never again have to experience the panic measures we experienced in autumn 2015. They were necessary in a very tight situation, but it would have been preferable that the changes had come gradually and earlier. It is sustainable in that there should be an opportunity to cope with the integration of the people who have come to Sweden. Throughout the years of the political debate, it has sounded like migration has been something that has been disconnected from all other policy areas. But, in fact, it is very natural for the vast majority of people in our society to have the opportunity to cope with housing, education and jobs for new arrivals to play a role in determining the size of the reception of refugees. In view of the very large reception Sweden has had and the fact that, when we meet in this House today, we still have nearly 80 000 people enrolled in the reception system of the Migration Agency, it is clear to us that migration policy in the coming years must be rigorous. It is out of the question to return to the policy that helped put Sweden in a very tough situation in the autumn of 2015 and that will affect us for many years. Mr President, I would like to For us Moderates, a key element of a long-term sustainable migration policy is that Sweden has rules that do not differ from other comparable countries in Europe in the way that has been the norm in practice for several years. This means, for example, that the basic rule should be temporary residence permits but that work can lead to a permanent residence permit. We also need a strong dependency requirement for family migration, integration obligations, mandatory social orientation for asylum seekers, stricter rules to qualify for Swedish citizenship and a difference between yes and no. Of course, people who have protection reasons should be allowed to stay, but if they do not, they should leave the country and return home. This is the basis of having regulated immigration. This area concerns us. During the years 2017 to 2021 60,000 enforcement cases are expected to be handed over by the Finnish Immigration Service to the police, and you should know that last year only 3,700 expulsions were carried out by the police. To this is to be added the shadow society that we already have today, which according to civil organisations amounts to almost 50 000 people. One of the reasons why the police do not show enough is that those who are to be rejected deviate and stay away. Therefore, the Migration Agency should be better in its risk assessments, and more detention places are needed. We want to see at least one new repository in northern Sweden. The northernmost is now in Gävle. The regulatory framework for taking a person into custody needs to be developed. Today's conditions for deportation due to crime have in principle been the same since 1994. We want these conditions to be extended. If you come to Sweden you must of course follow the laws and regulations that apply here. First of all, we want crimes with a penalty value of between six and twelve months' imprisonment to be able to lead to expulsion even if there is no risk of relapse. Such a change would mean, among other things, that crimes with hate or honour motives lead to expulsion in more cases than at present. Mr President, I would like to Many of those who come to Sweden to seek asylum have made an expensive and dangerous journey. Most of them have been in the hands of unscrupulous smugglers. This year 150 000 people have made the deadly journey across the Mediterranean, and only in the last three years have 12 000 people drowned. It is therefore important that there are alternatives to this. Here, Sweden has been at the forefront through its unique legislation for, for example, labour immigration but also the fact that we belong to the countries in the world that have made the largest commitment within the framework of the UNHCR quota refugee system. It is good for the individual and for Sweden that you can come to Sweden to work. We need manpower. On the other hand, undeclared work or the exploitation of human beings must be vigorously combated. We Moderates are strongly critical of the inaction that we believe has characterised the government's work during its term of office in doing something about the fact that honest people who have committed minor errors without intent are still being expelled. We have been pointing this out in the Alliance for over a year and a half, but there is still no solution in place. Today, 65 million people in the world are on the run. Migration is undoubtedly one of the most important and difficult issues of the future. In order for us to be a good player who can make a difference, Sweden cannot stand alone, but we must take joint steps forward within the European Union. It is progressing slowly – far too slowly – but we still believe that this is the right way forward. We Moderates now want to initiate a discussion on reforming the EU's reception of refugees, where we want, in the long term, an EU-wide quota refugee system with asylum testing in safe areas outside the EU's borders. Many of the problems we see today would then disappear. People would no longer have to make dangerous death journeys across the Mediterranean, the activities of traffickers would be reduced, we would not have problems with an emerging shadow society, and we would also be better able to help the people most in need of it than we do today. To conclude, Mr President, I cannot help but comment on the recent agreement between government parties on unaccompanied refugee children. We from the Moderates are strongly critical of this proposal. It undermines both the right to asylum and the rule of law and equal treatment in the asylum process. The basic attitude that a yes is a yes and that a no is a no is abandoned in favour of a no now becoming a maybe. Trust in our asylum system will have a big break. This goes in exactly the opposite direction towards the long-term sustainable migration policy that Sverig e needs. One step forward is followed by half a step back and then another step aside. We have seen far too many examples of this in migration policy, and it is regrettable that the government is now opting for this. Mr President, I would like to I refer once again to the specific opinion of the Moderates in this report.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-44	Mr President, I would like to We in our party had our national days, our parliamentary meeting, a few weekends ago. At that time we adopted, among other things, a new orientation programme for migration policy, which I have written. It's a lot of fun to have received that honor. I would like to begin by reading some of the introduction to this programme. It is known to most in this House that the Swedish Democrats are a social-conservative party based on a nationalist fundamental view. Our positions are based on a conviction that a society is built in the best way possible because its inhabitants know community, participation and trust as well as responsibility for each other. At the same time, we see these values as fundamental to the individual's well-being. For our image of man is that he is a social being with a need for human relations and a sense of security as well as belonging to the society in which we live. That is why we also see the nation state as the most appropriate of state formations, as it rests on these foundations. For the sake of society, the nation state provides the conditions for common commitments and successes. For the sake of the individual, it provides stability and a place to call home. Our vision for Sweden is a modern folk home, where citizenship goes hand in hand with belonging and trust and where the social contract is strong. But, Mr President, the fact that we believe in the nation state does not mean that we are opposed to people moving across state borders – although many like to claim it – whether it is about shorter holidays, longer project trips and exchanges, or a permanent move to a new country. On the other hand, we believe that there should be clear and reasonable rules on when and how and under which conditions. This was not exactly what our focus programme said – it was a little changed – but basically the same. We just heard Johan Forssell from the Moderates giving his speech. He rightly said that migration is a question of the future, just as it is a matter of the past. There will always be migration. As I have just said, it is something that we also see as self-evident. But he followed up with rather long statements that what drives migration above all is humanitarian needs. It is true that we have 65 million refugees in the world. That's a tragic figure. But it is distressing that we are still the only party in this House to say that if we are to help refugees, we are not doing so by talking about migration to a completely different part of the world. Mr President, I would like to The attitude that has characterised Sweden's policy and that of the other western countries, and which is still being sought to make the EU's policy prevail – it is being referred to where this is to be resolved – is based on helping people in urgent need of protection and help by taking some of them to our part of the world. That is a completely unreasonable approach. Although the Moderates to and from have talked about everything from the arrest of refugees to moving to a purely quota system and investing more in trials far away, we still hear that the goal is a reception in our part of the world. That's how we help. Mr President, I would like to I should like to say that these are the wrong priorities. It is against this background that our migration budget is quite different from that of the other parties. We move resources from reception here to, among other things, help and effective assistance to those who are most vulnerable. It also solves resource problems for our society. We are doing this with clear regulatory changes that allow for fairly rapid and large cuts in the migration budget. I shall therefore go into this report, and I call for our reservation to be approved. That is the only reservation in the report, because, as I said, we are the only party that is serious about not only being able to cut back on this area, but also pointing out that the policy being pursued today is actually directly harmful. There it is reasonable to cut back, even if it does not mean that these resources are used in any other way. We choose to reserve ourselves for our reductions. A well-functioning migration policy is based on creating ways for the migration that I usually talk about in terms of positive drive. It is about driving forces such as wanting to go to other countries to study, to work and to discover new societies. There should, of course, be clear and good rules for this. There should be opportunities to apply for a work permit, so that you can get a chance to work in an industry where you have skills. However, one should not be tied to a specific employer, as has been the case since the migration shift that took place in 2008, when it was linked to employers' employment offers rather than needs-based reviews. It is, among other things, what has led to opportunities for employers who are unserious to exploit individuals, and it is also what has led to haste when they have tried to correct past mistakes which today lead to exactly what we have just heard from the speaker's chair, that is, that competent key personnel are expelled from our country while we see how people who live here illegally and who do not have protection reasons have the opportunity to stay. These priorities and these signals that we send to the outside world must change, as soon as possible. But what do we see from the government instead? We see agreements aimed specifically at giving those who choose to stay in the country despite rejection new opportunities to stay. That's completely unreasonable. You can't explain it or defend it. I am amazed that the Social Democrats have allowed themselves to land in such a position, in such a policy and in such external communication. Although they certainly try to limit this a little bit in speech, the signals they send are very clear. Although they have previously said that they want order and that a no should be a no – the rules should apply – the Social Democrats meet those who claim that adults without asylum reasons should be allowed to stay here and have as many opportunities as possible to obtain a residence permit in our country. Mr President, I would like to For my part, it goes without saying that a policy of migration is based on being either a citizen of a country, having the full right to reside in that country, or on the road, and it can be a long journey. But you have a residence permit for a certain reason, and you have gone out into the world for a certain reason. As long as these reasons remain, it should be possible to extend the residence permit without major problems. It should not have to be long bureaucratic trials. It is clear that it should be possible to feel safe and that the residence permit should remain valid as long as the grounds remain. However, granting permanent residence permits and creating an intermediate situation, providing incentives not to become part of the country and not to have clear signals about who is permanently part of our society and who is here because they have special reasons, is not the right way. That's not how you build a cohesive country. There is an enormous amount of work to be done in migration policy. The area in which we are actually investing more than the rest of the world concerns, above all, the policy of return. It's amazing what flatness is here. A few years ago it was said that we will have to expel about 80 000 people. That has not been the case. Today we have tens of thousands of people in the country who live here illegally and still have access to care and dental care for a 50. It is considerably cheaper than for citizens and people who are legally staying here, with a residence permit. We have shortcomings in the number of detention places and shortcomings in how we handle the expulsions. That's where we need to reinforce. We also need to reinforce the support we give to those who actually return voluntarily, and we need to strengthen the incentives to return voluntarily – not only through better efforts at what you can bring with you when you return home, but also by actually making it clear that the person who has received a no should not be able to enjoy the welfare of our society and our resources. Our resources should be reserved for our citizens and for those who reside legally here – those who pay taxes in our country and contribute to our society. Once again, Mr President, I call for the Swedish Democrats' reservation to be approved.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-66	Mr President, I would like to Paula Bieler had a formulation that came back in the speech, namely that the Swedish Democrats are the only party that does a lot of different things. I can agree with that. At the same time, alone is not always strong, either here in Parliament or in the world at large. I see migration as something by nature very cross-border. What affects Sweden in migration flows today has often started somewhere hundreds, perhaps thousands, miles away from us. Then the conflicts continue, and there will be large flows of refugees passing through many different countries or – as we see today – across the Mediterranean and the Aegean Sea, etc. The question is what conclusion is drawn from that relationship. I myself conclude that we must cooperate with others if we are to get some order in migration policy. As I said, this is by nature cross-border, and we cannot have 28 different approaches to this in European cooperation. Instead, we must sit down together and try to make structures and principles work better. Take, for example, the agreement the EU has with Turkey. It has been important for the whole of the EU, but perhaps above all for Sweden – for a while it was almost like the border between Europe and Turkey crossed the Sound. However, there has been a change around this thanks to the agreement. Is it anyone who thinks that it would have come into place if Sweden had negotiated alone with Turkey? Probably not. But when more countries, 28 together, put strength behind the words, it was possible to reach an agreement. As I said, this has been very positive. Now this is not the only issue we have to deal with, but a whole series of problems lie before us. At the same time, the Swedish Democrats, as I understand it, want Sweden to leave the European cooperation and not be involved in it anymore. What about what Paula Bieler says in her speech?
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-71	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Johan Forssell! The short answer is that the world is bigger than Europe. The slightly longer answer is that many of the conventions and agreements that build and have created the refugee situation today are not based on the EU acquis. There we have international agreements that are much larger than that. These are UN conventions and UN agreements. For my part, it is obvious – and it also says, once again, in our focus programme on migration – that we need international agreements. International agreements and bodies can help deal with the refugee situation. What I am opposed to, Mr President and Johan Forssell, is the idea that we should help people who are vulnerable through reception to Europe, Europe and the West if it is quite far from where the basic problem arises. Because it is not always right at the border of the European Union that the biggest crises are – and not in the future. There are many places on our great earth where crises arise, and we must make sure that we try to find solutions internationally, with the international community, as close as possible. No, I do not think that Sweden alone will be able to negotiate – of course not. But I believe and am convinced that the solution in the future is much greater than the EU negotiating and finding solutions. Until we get there, every case in which a single country is clear is that it does not put up with the rules that have been in place so far and say no to the system that others are trying to impose on it will lead to consequential effects that are forcing negotiations to take place for real. It also gives us the opportunity to take care of our country and take responsibility for people on the run by increasing our aid on the ground already now.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-74	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer, Paula Bieler! It is true that the world is bigger than the EU, but now Sweden is actually in Europe. Looking at a map, it's hard to get away from this fact. Therefore, it is perhaps quite natural that our main cooperation should take place precisely with the countries that are close to us and share the reality, the everyday life and the problems we see in Sweden. Perhaps it is not countries 2 000 kilometres away from us that are the main starting point there, but the countries that are actually located in Europe, together with us. Let us bring this up again with the Turkie Agreement. It has been important both for a more orderly migration to Europe and for remedying – or at least trying to remedy – the problems we see with human trafficking and criminal gangs that exploit people in great need and their desperation. Had the Turkish agreement come into place on the line of the Swedish Democrats, where 28 countries should act in 28 different ways without joint work and without being able to put their minds behind the words together, would have been allowed to apply? Actually, I doubt it. Instead, it would have been exactly what we have seen in the past too much in Europe: that countries run into different balls and do not cooperate and that it is more important to talk about doing the right thing than actually getting concrete results on the ground. Of course, there are many problems in European cooperation; many things are not working well enough. I can feel great frustration that things aren't going fast enough. But is the answer to that that we should leave the EU and that all 28 countries should do what they want? Does anyone seriously believe that it would improve the chances of getting the common position and the common principles that migration really needs because of its cross-border nature? At least I don't think so.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-78	Mr President, I would like to It's kind of funny to be in this situation. My party is often accused of being ethnocentric, wanting closed borders and just focusing on ourselves and our proximity. Now we hear Johan Forssell from the Moderates talking about that when it comes to issues that by their nature are about situations that arise very far away should only talk to those who are close to us and discuss how it affects our countries and what conditions we get here. I don't believe it. I want to make a real difference for those who are in crisis situations – for those who are on the run, fleeing for their lives and fighting for their lives. Then I cannot just look at how difficult it has been for us and our neighbours. It is an important factor in reviewing what we want to receive here – what our capacity is and how we can manage our country. Of course it does, but I would also like to make an effort for those who really need it, I cannot lock myself in to it by receiving it to Europe. Then I just have to add that we want to leave Europe as it is right now. We want to leave the superstate. But, of course, we still want to negotiate with different countries in our vicinity and further away, depending on the issue. However, we are opposed to the Union function. More and more voices are also being raised in order for there to be a total federation, in practice a new state formation, where everyone should always participate in everything or fight for their lives to get some small exceptions. That is not a reasonable approach. That's what we want to leave. Of course, however, we must always negotiate with other countries and build agreements, whether it be trade agreements or joint agreements on how we deal with international crime, environmental issues and so on. That goes without saying. However, we must lift our eyes from Europe and Europe on the real global issues. That is my focus, and that is the focus of my party. I'm afraid that's not the focus of the Moderates.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-82	Mr President, I would like to We have had the opportunity and reason to discuss migration policy many times in recent years. These have been the migration agreement, the breathing room and the refugee break, border and ID checks, the temporary law, the so-called secondary law, the so-called competence expulsions and the negotiations for a new, harmonised migration policy within the EU. We in the Christian Democrats have, of course, kept to this, but we have also come up with a lot of our own proposals and set out our own direction for how we want Sweden's migration policy to be shaped. The proposal based on the right of asylum aims to achieve an orderly, long-term responsible and humane migration policy that offers refuge for people on the run. This whole is primarily to be read in our motion for Category 8, but I am also going to make a few comments in this speech. Firstly, in order to improve the reception of asylum seekers and improve the efficiency of the asylum process, we propose that asylum application areas be established near our major border crossing points and that anyone intending to apply for asylum in Sweden be referred to there. In these areas, the registration of asylum applications shall take place and accommodation shall be arranged for asylum seekers during the first phase of the asylum investigation. Persons who are clearly not involved in proving their identity, who come from so-called safe countries or who, in accordance with the rules of the Dublin Regulation, should have their asylum application examined in another country should be given a rapid expulsion decision. The same applies to persons who are deemed to be a safety risk. A concerted reception and decision-making process enhances the possibility of preventing people from deviating and ending up in a vulnerable situation. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats also propose the introduction of a six-month asylum programme. The idea behind this is to reduce passivity during the period of asylum, and to speed up the establishment of the labour market and integration in Sweden by early communicating the norms and values that characterise our society. It is important to make it clear that people who come to Sweden with the intention of staying will learn the Swedish language and our culture and that the starting point is, of course, that they will support themselves and their family. We therefore believe that, at the beginning of the asylum period, participation in formal education in SFI and social orientation should be offered and required. In order for more asylum seekers to work during the period of asylum, we also want a working requirement for asylum seekers to be available in the labour market. We have proposals both to make it easier for asylum seekers to work and to strengthen asylum seekers' incentives to work. During the asylum programme, asylum seekers shall be offered a health examination and, if necessary, an age assessment shall be carried out. Babysitting should be offered, so that the asylum programme also works for parents of young children. Those who do not participate in the asylum programme shall be able to have their daily allowance reduced. The Christian Democrats put a total of SEK 200 million in the budget for next year for this. During 2019 it is about 500 million and in 2020 it is about 600 million SEK. We believe that the benefits that faster integration would bring over time far exceed the additional costs of the asylum programme. Mr President, I would like to We also want to see a permanent law with the meaning that all groups of persons in need of protection should initially be granted a three-year residence permit for a limited period of time. If the reasons for protection persist after these three years, or if the person concerned has acquired a job or started his or her own business on which he or she can make a living, a permanent residence permit shall be issued. However, the Christian Democrats have also said that the limitation of the right to family reunification contained in the temporary migration legislation should be removed. We believe that it is better that the people who come to Sweden focus on establishing themselves in the labour market and in society as soon as possible than that they worry about their relatives. We are fully aware that this has financial implications, so in order to finance the deviation from the government's policy on the right to family reunification, we set aside in our budget for next year SEK 1.1 billion. Mr President, I would like to The fact that the temporary law lacks the provisions on particularly distressing circumstances as a basis for residence permits is also something that we in the Christian Democrats have opposed. We believe that the government's alternative definition creates a great deal of uncertainty and that the fact that the government has removed these provisions from the temporary law helps it to feel the need to develop new special solutions, such as the so-called High School Act. The reintroduction of the provisions on exceptional and particularly distressing circumstances as a basis for residence permits would not undermine the principles of safeguarding the right of asylum and individual examination, in which the person with sufficient grounds should be protected in our country, while the person who is not deemed to have such reasons must return to his or her home country. In other words, the reintroduction of these provisions would be a way of allowing more unaccompanied minors and others in need to stay in Sweden while maintaining regulated immigration. The Christian Democrats will allocate SEK 400 million for next year to finance the reintroduction of the provisions on exceptional and particularly distressing circumstances as a basis for residence permits. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say that it is important to stress that those who come to Sweden to seek asylum but who, after an individual and legal review, are not deemed to have sufficient grounds for protection to obtain a residence permit as quickly as possible must return to their home country. Unfortunately, we know that both the return that takes place on its own and the forced expulsions and expulsions that take place are working too badly today. In order to overcome this, it is important that Sweden enters into more readmission agreements with the main countries of origin in order for them to receive their citizens. More resources are needed for the police to be able to execute expulsions and expulsions, and also to a greater extent to carry out internal checks on aliens. More detention sites are also needed. In our budget for next year, we therefore allocate SEK 60 million more than the government precisely to create more detention places. These were some downfalls in the Christian Democrats' migration policy. I commend the reading of our field of expenditure motion and refer to our specific opinion in the report.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-104	Mr President, I would like to I have a recurring question about family reunification. Usually I talk about the fact that an increased focus on family reunification here creates incentives to send unaccompanied minors in advance and then bring the family here. It also leads to the fragmentation of families and the risk of young people's lives by sending them on dangerous journeys. This time, however, I have a slightly different angle of attack. In his speech, Aron Modig said that it is important that asylum seekers get their family members here as quickly as possible, as this will speed up and facilitate the establishment in Sweden. My brief question is, how well did it work before?
i-V9D8WCAWP74ejGz6TRGRmv	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Paula Bieler, for the question! On the concrete question of how integration and establishment worked earlier and how it works today, the answer is that it works too badly and that it has worked too badly. There are a number of reasons for this. I would say that this has to do with the functioning of the labour market and how it is structured in Sweden. This has, of course, to do with the educational background and professional experience of many of those who come to Sweden as asylum seekers and how well these conditions match the jobs that exist and the skills required in the Swedish labour market. It is also due to structural factors in our reception of asylum seekers. How do we accept the people who come to Sweden to seek asylum and to seek protection? What demands do we make from day one? Much of this has worked too badly, and much of it still works too badly. There's still a lot to do. We Christian Democrats have proposals in this area. To respond very specifically to Paula Bieler's question, I would say that the reason why it works so badly is precisely these structural factors and not that, before the temporary law came into force, there were more opportunities to bring their family here. I believe that the very fact that you have your family in place and do not have to worry about it is something that contributes positively to the possibility of integrating into Sweden.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-113	Mr President, I would like to Good, then we can see that the main reason why we have the problems we have is not the fact that you do not have your family and that it is just speculation that it would be easier to establish yourself if you have your family. Then we can return to the discussion about how we help those who are in need of it, those who have very tender reasons but are not in Sweden, those who choose to send one of their children in advance to Sweden in the hope of perhaps coming here eventually. The policy advocated by the Christian Democrats and others will once again put this in a system instead of enabling us to help for real and be where the real circumstances are most distressing, where you can barely survive the day. It is about neighbourhoods and refugee camps where we should be able to take responsibility internationally and where we are already and are acting on the ground but which people leave because there are insufficient resources. This is because several countries, Sweden in particular in terms of their size, invest huge resources on projects after projects that do not work, on regulations that provide incentives for migration that harms, risks lives and sponsors criminals. This is what we invest our resources on, put our focus on and make our laws from outside. The Aliens Act is a complete concoction of constant additions because you are trying to find a new problem that you should solve but not take a holistic approach. If we really protect those who are vulnerable, how can we justify this policy over real and much greater efforts where people actually exist and suffer?
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-119	Mr President, I would like to I thank Paula Bieler for her speech and the question. I do not agree that this is pure speculation. There are several factors that determine how well people manage to establish themselves and integrate into Swedish society. Having your loved ones around you and not having to focus on it and being able to focus on the establishment itself is an important factor. There is much to do in terms of making the labour market accessible to more people. Higher demands must be placed on more people to take in knowledge and education in order to manage better in the Swedish labour market and in Sweden. The possibility of having one's family around is a positive contribution to this. Paula Bieler's question is broad. Of course, I agree that the whole of migration policy must stick together. However, we have different views on several points of substance. The Christian Democrats defend the possibility of family reunification. We set aside money in our budget to finance the deviation we make from the government. The fact that we are focusing on family reunification means that we are prioritising it. It is not possible to give priority to everything, and this is a priority we make and stand up for. We think it is important to have loved ones around you.
i-7BAQ3WbTpRmwr7CGbZcrFy	Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservation. As many have mentioned, the number of refugees in the world is now the highest ever, over 65 million. In 2015, 163 000 people applied for asylum in Sweden, and that was the largest number ever. To cope with the serious situation, the government and the alliance parties reached an agreement in October 2015 on measures to ensure the ability of Swedish reception of asylum seekers and to strengthen the establishment of new arrivals. In November 2015, the Government presented further measures to limit the possibility of obtaining a residence permit in Sweden. The measures resulted in the adoption by the Riksdag of a limited-term law, the Act on temporary restrictions on the possibility of obtaining a residence permit, which entered into force on 20 July 2016 and is valid until 19 July 2019 at the latest. In November 2015, Sweden introduced temporary internal border controls which have subsequently continued to apply. The number of people seeking asylum in Sweden has also decreased, and in 2016 the number was 29 000. Our starting point is that Sweden should have a humane asylum policy and be a haven for those fleeing persecution and oppression. I would also like to emphasise here that the objective of the expenditure area includes a long-term sustainable asylum policy that safeguards the right of asylum. At the same time, development is largely driven by external factors that are difficult to predict in their entirety. This underlines the importance of preparing for major and rapid changes in the area of migration. The agreement concluded between the government and the alliance parties in 2015, which resulted, among other things, in the temporary law, was a way of creating the necessary order in the reception and decision-making of the Migration Agency and of other functions that were affected by the large number of asylum seekers. At the same time, it must be said that it posed major challenges to authorities, municipalities and society as a whole. We can still see this, on the one hand, in the report where we can compare figures for different years and, of course, in what is happening daily. Many municipalities feel pressured, for example when they are going to arrange housing for people who have been granted a residence permit and have been assigned to them. The school should be secured, more are going to work and so on. Civil society organisations and individuals have both made and made a difference in order for newcomers to get a good start and feel a sense of belonging in Sweden. It is of course extremely important for Sweden to stay together. The common construction of society must be future-proofed. It creates hope, security and faith in the future. Mr President, I would like to While Sweden has taken on major challenges, the Social Democraticly led government has amortised the public debt and made responsible investments in the construction of society. Deficit has turned into surplus, and the Swedish economy is now in a position of strength. We know that equality and economic development go hand in hand. Sweden therefore needs a society that is fair, with reforms that reduce the gaps and create more opportunities for everyone to contribute. This is how cohesion and trust are built in society. Of course, this is also relevant when it comes to migration – that we meet the challenges it entails that everyone who comes here should be included in our common society. In order for this to be better done, the processing times for applications for asylum should be significantly reduced in order to ensure that the duration of stay in the reception system is as short as possible. The processing times for applications due to connection, work and studies shall be as short as possible according to the nature of the case. Furthermore, we know that the Migration Agency has been tasked with developing an action plan for how both new cases and extension cases concerning work permits can be significantly shortened. The focus shall be on measures that increase productivity and reduce the time from the submission of the application to the decision. The plan shall contain concrete measures, a timetable for their introduction and the expected impact of the measures. Clear closure is also important for legal certainty within the asylum system. A well-functioning return is a prerequisite for Sweden's asylum system to be sustainable in the long term. Where a decision on expulsion or expulsion can be enforced, this shall be done as soon as possible. The budget proposal states that it is important for the asylum system to be kept in order, which means, among other things, that those who are refused their asylum application should return. As many people have mentioned, it is important that detention sites are available to meet the needs, and therefore additional funds are added to it. The Government has also drawn attention to the issues in the regulation letter, that the Migration Agency, within the framework of the Authority's tasks and mandate, should take the necessary measures to increase return. Particular focus will be placed on early intervention and developed collaboration with relevant authorities. Through the Regulatory Letter, the Migration Agency is also tasked with analysing whether the detention centre is used in a way that contributes to dignified, humane, legally secure and effective return and what measures can be taken to increase efficiency. The Finnish Immigration Service will also present an updated plan for the continued work to increase the number of detention places in the country. The plan shall include, inter alia, a description of the location of the new detention centres, the time of their entry into service and the estimated costs. The Government has also commissioned a special investigator to propose measures to create a coherent system of reception and residence for asylum seekers and new arrivals. The mission is broad, and the investigator will analyse, among other things, how actions that support future establishment in society and working life, such as organised employment, language training and work preparation, can already enter asylum reception. The investigation period has been extended, and the assignment will be reported on 31 March next year. The Swedish Parliament has decided that the objective of Category 8 is to ensure a long-term sustainable migration policy that safeguards the right of asylum and which facilitates cross-border mobility within the framework of regulated immigration, promotes needs-driven labour migration and exploits and takes into account the development effects of migration and deepens European and international cooperation. Like the government, we believe that the overall objectives of migration policy have been partially achieved. At the same time, a number of actions remain, such as improving the quality of processing applications for work permits and residence permits on the basis of links, more strategic housing planning in the reception of asylum seekers, improvements in digitalisation and strengthening services to fully meet the objectives of the expenditure area. In the autumn of next year, it is estimated that the Agency will be in a working balance for asylum cases, i.e. three to four months in average processing. We look forward to that very much. We wish, of course, that the system would be different and that we saw shorter processing times for all those who are here and possibly get asylum.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-145	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes it's hard to know where to start and what to ask about. Quite often I think it must be comfortable to be in a government position. The government can bury various interventions and measures in investigation after investigation. Even when the investigations are complete, they can be prepared for almost all eternity at the Government Office, which has taken place, among other things, with regard to labour migration. I have a question right now. It is great that it is stated that there should be shorter processing times. However, an already overloaded authority has been assigned to investigate how this is to be done. In addition, it creates additional workload for this authority by creating more opportunities to re-apply residence permits for those who are illegally present here. They send out signals to the outside world: Come to Sweden, break our regulations, get a rejection and stay anyway. We'll find a solution to allow you to stay, because then you've been here so long that it's reasonable that you can stay. I know how we want to shorten the processing times. We want to change the rules. We are prepared to amend the legislation and review it properly in order to have clear, sharp regulations. We state that if Sweden is not the closest country to crisis spots, it is not in Sweden that people should be granted asylum, point. It's a reasonable order. Many other countries have also felt this, not least within the EU, given that we have a first-country principle. People should seek help as soon as they are in a safe place. My question is: do the Social Democrats themselves have any ideas on how to shorten processing times and create order? Or are they content with spending it on external investigators and already overloaded authorities?
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-149	Mr President, I would like to First, we can look at the draft budgets from different parties. I don't really understand how Paula Bieler gets it together. A major reduction is being proposed for the Migration Agency for next year. At the same time, Paula Bieler says that the government and government parties are hiding behind investigations. In order to get impact assessments and good legislation in place, investigations need to be carried out. It is not that we are hiding, but that it is in order to have the best basis for decision-making that it is only possible for everyone and also for the opposition parties. This is how we usually deal with various proposals in Parliament, the legislature. They're being prepared by investigations that we can take a stand on. I can admit, and I think it was also made clear in my speech, that it is difficult to shorten the processing times immediately. There were so many who came not only in 2015, but also in 2014 we were at a record level of 80 000. Then it was about asylum seekers. Then it is just as Paula Bieler says: There are more people who come, want to stay and want to get a residence permit in Sweden through work force migration, connections of different kinds and so on. Asylum applications are not even a majority of the different applications. But it was of course the number of 2014 and 2015 that meant that we now have the long processing times. We were down more in balance in three or four months. Various measures are being tried to find efficiency improvements. We have tried, both from the government parties and from the authorities themselves, to develop measures to reduce the length of proceedings.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-153	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the attempt to answer in any case. Maybe that's a pretty difficult question. We all know here that we should of course prepare proposals a little more carefully and have legislation that is coherent. At the same time, we know that it is perfectly feasible to produce new laws in six months. It was done earlier with the temporary law. This has been announced to happen even with the de facto amnesty for those who have chosen to stay despite rejection when they are adults and do not have protection needs. They will be given the opportunity to re-apply for a residence permit on new grounds, grounds that in my world are totally unreasonable. My question remains. I would like to continue to argue that there is a situation where one is aware that the Migration Agency is overloaded. They have a situation where they also give it additional cases by sending signals to the outside world that it pays once again to come to Sweden, directly opposite what they have said before, by creating new foundations on which people can apply to stay in Sweden. At the same time, in any case, I have not seen any concrete proposals on what the Social Democrats are prepared to do themselves or whether they even think about and discuss how to reduce the number of cases in Sweden and reduce the processing times. What else can you do? What do they think of it? We have a clear entry into this. What I see from the Social Democrats is that investigations are being placed on others. In addition, in this case, the investigation is specifically placed on the already heavily burdened authority to review for itself what it can do to improve its effectiveness. I may find it strange to give them another assignment to do. I think most of them are trying to act as quickly as they can today and still keep some kind of legal certainty in place, given the rules that you other parties have put forward and voted through. If I change my question a little bit, I wonder: How far is one willing to change the laws to make it easier for the Migration Agency to handle matters faster?
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-160	Mr President, I would like to When I was preparing my speech, I wondered: Should I go back to 2015 again in a speech? Now I can see that it was important that I did it. I mentioned the measures taken by the government with several legislative changes to limit the number of asylum seekers. There is a huge difference between 2016 with 29,000 and 2015 with 163 000. Here, among other things, it has emerged from the Christian Democrats that the measures that were taken strike at family ties and other things. It's part of it. The second part is that the Migration Agency has expanded its staff staff staff staff very much over those years. It is also part of reducing processing times. Much work has been done on efficiency improvements and productivity in the agency itself and the number of cases handled by each administrator has been reduced. A lot of work has also been done with IT systems and other things to reduce processing times. The government and the Migration Agency are therefore not just waiting for investigations and so on, but working on all the time to get things in balance. With legislation and ways of making things more effective within the authorities, I think we have come a long way. However, we are not there yet, and it would of course be good if, by the end of the year, we had a balance of three four months. But it will come in the next six months, 2018.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-163	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating Category 8 Migration. The situation in the world is still very uncertain and dangerous with wars and conflicts that force people to flee. Fewer people than a few years ago reach Europe, mainly because of border controls across Europe and the EU-Turkey declaration, which makes it possible for fewer people who want to apply for asylum in the EU to join the Union to do so. For Sweden, this means a major change. During the record year 2015, 163 000 people applied for asylum in Sweden, while only over 23 000 people applied for asylum in Sweden so far this year. This reduction is therefore not about the fact that the need for international protection is less, but about fewer people fleeing to Europe and Sweden. Recently, the consequences of the lack of legal channels for asylum seekers to the EU have been highlighted in international media. In addition to the terrible boat accidents on the Mediterranean, which cause thousands of people to lose their lives every year, human rights violations are taking place in Libya, where many people who want to emigrate to Europe are trapped. In this country, where militias and various fighting groups fight each other, the slave trade of vulnerable people is currently taking place. Instead of reaching Europe, people are put in prison under terrible conditions, even though they have committed no crime. This needs to be vigorously countered. The lack of legal channels for asylum seekers and other migrants fertilises criminal smugglers of refugees and creates dependency between the EU and authoritarian states. Therefore, steps need to be taken for more legal channels for asylum seekers to enable a safe and orderly path to seek asylum. This is important not least for reasons of equality because the journey to freedom and security is often more dangerous and more difficult for women and children than for men. For this reason in particular, it is positive that the budget provides funds to increase the capacity of two embassies for family reunification matters. This will ensure that more families can be reunited in Sweden in the coming year. The Temporary Restrictions Act will automatically expire in 2019, as previously pointed out. The Government's proposal is that at present no changes be made to the law during the last year of its period of validity. On the other hand, the government will want to discuss with the bourgeois parties when it comes to making adjustments even before the legislation automatically expires. In this context, the Green Party would of course like to see changes such as the reintroduction of the right to family reunification and special and particularly distressing circumstances. This was also mentioned earlier by the Christian Democrats in their speech. In Sweden, the Finnish Immigration Service will scale down its activities in the coming years as fewer asylum seekers come here. Many of those who came in 2015 have now started the establishment in Sweden. They have become part of our country and in the construction of our common society. At the same time, many are still waiting for a reply to their asylum applications. In particular, those who came as unaccompanied minors have been affected by excessively long processing times and have had to wait for a very long time. In 2015, 35 000 unaccompanied minors came to Sweden, often from countries such as Afghanistan, Eritrea and Somalia. When we drew up the temporary law in 2015, we negotiated an exemption for children and families with children that came by 24 November to ensure that they would continue to be tried against the ordinary Aliens Act and receive permanent residence permits and full right to family reunification. For many of the unaccompanied minors who arrived in 2015, this has not become a reality as they have been over 18 years of age during the incredibly long asylum process. Most of them were 16 to 17 years old when they arrived, and due to the length of their processing periods they have become of age before their asylum applications were examined. Therefore, many have been rejected and are expected to be rejected in the autumn. As far as the Green Party is concerned, we have always seen this as an unreasonable situation, and we have worked for a long time to improve the situation of unaccompanied minors in various ways. It is about young people who have come here alone and rooted themselves here. They have their whole life and their security here. They go to school, learn Swedish and have become new family members and classmates. Then, after several years of waiting, to be told that they must return, if you can say so, to a country with which they have very little connection, is not justifiable. The political intention, which was taken in broad agreement in the Swedish parliament, was also that they should be allowed to stay here. The Congress of the Green Party in the spring decided that we should work towards a solution to the situation: Those who came as unaccompanied minors in 2015 and who have been affected by excessively long processing times will have an opportunity to stay here. Since then, we have worked intensively to make this a reality. We have not wanted to see a situation in which thousands of young people are rejected and forced to remain undocumented for many years or to be rejected. The many rejections have also created an alarmingly high level of mental illness in the group with, among other things, many suicide attempts and also suicides that have been carried out. In addition to the fact that in the budget we have increased resources to combat mental illness in asylum seekers and new arrivals, not least young people, we have noted that the major change needed is an opportunity to stay for this group. The budget proposal that we are debating now contains many measures that concern the group of unaccompanied minors. For us, it has been important to protect those who came as unaccompanied minors in different ways. Therefore, there are resources in the budget for municipalities to allow young people to live on even if they are over 18 years old during the asylum process. This is important in order for them not on the 18th anniversary to be torn up from the environment where they have rooted themselves, forced to interrupt their schooling and sent to one of the Migration Board's large facility homes in some completely different part of Sweden than the one they know about. Many municipalities have now decided to make use of these resources. It is important that even more municipalities now ensure that young people are allowed to stay throughout the asylum process. In addition, there are means for those who have been over 18 years of age and who are still waiting for a reply to their asylum applications to start a national programme if they have had time to gain access to it. Since many have waited so long and are very motivated to study, some have been able to qualify and need an opportunity to get started and study. This is important in order to prevent unnecessary interruption of studies for these motivated adolescents. In addition to this, last Monday we were finally able to present an agreement that means that most unaccompanied persons who came in 2015 will be given a new chance. Those who arrived no later than 24 November 2015 and were registered as unaccompanied minors but have reached the age of 18 during the asylum process and have waited 15 months or more for their asylum application will have an opportunity to stay instead of being rejected with this proposal. They will be granted a residence permit in order to complete their studies here, either in the framework of upper secondary school or through the professional packages, and then be able to establish themselves in the labour market and thus have the possibility of a permanent residence permit. This is a very important step. It is a victory for humanity because so many dedicated people have been fighting for change for such a long time. This will allow up to 9 000 people to stay in Sweden. We are now in the process of drafting the legislative proposal and, of course, we want the legislation to enter into force as soon as possible. I hope that more parties are prepared to take responsibility in this situation so that it can also become a reality and be voted through in Parliament. The future of many young people depends on that. Mr President, I would like to The way the Green Party works has sometimes meant that we have been able to create a more humane and transparent migration policy. Sometimes it has been about preventing an even more restrictive migration policy. But at any given time, on the basis of what is politically possible, we are negotiating hard for the rights of refugees. Thus, this budget provides funds for more families to be reunited. The number of quota refugees can be increased to 5,000 in 2018. R esurser is available to municipalities to allow unaccompanied residents to remain, to combat mental ill-health in newly arrived asylum seekers and to combat homelessness in young adults. This, plus the proposal that will allow most unaccompanied persons to stay, is important investment in a better future for the people concerned and for Sweden. With those words, I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-182	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Maria Ferm a question in an area that I did not understand was mentioned in the speech. It is difficult to include everything in these brief speeches, and I would like to ask about an area that I believe is the basis of regulated immigration, namely that a yes should be a yes and a no should be a no. If you do not have protection reasons, if you are not a refugee, you should return to your home country. At the same time, a lot of people in Sweden choose not to do just that – to respect an authority decision, a court decision, and ultimately Swedish legislation. Instead, they linger. As I mentioned in my own speech, it is appreciated by civil organisations that we already have a shadow society of up to 50 000 people today. According to the Finnish Immigration Service's own forecast for the next four years, it is estimated that 60 000 enforcement cases will be handed over from the Finnish Immigration Service to the police. This is a development that we have never seen before in Sweden and which will bring major social and economic problems. It will affect a great many people who will find themselves in very great danger. What will happen to the children born into this shadow society? I think you have to be clear to people that going underground does not make things any better. It is better to return home and perhaps come back, for example as labour immigrants. This is a question that I have raised in the speaker's chair for probably two years. I feel that very little is happening in this area. There is now finally going to be some further detention, but it is also not in relation to the needs that exist. We can see how the number of internal checks on aliens has fallen sharply over the last five years.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-188	Mr President, I would like to These are important issues raised by Johan Forssell. A better functioning return has been the work of the Green Party both with the former bourgeois government for a number of years and with this government. Regardless of which government Sweden has had, this has been a priority. It wants the return to work legally secure, effective and in a better way than before. However, reality means that this is a very difficult area. Much is about living in a dangerous and unsafe world. It is difficult for people to return to certain places, not least if they are countries that refuse to accept their own citizens, which is very common. Then it may be situations that Sweden cannot influence. This government has initiated several different measures, such as an increased number of detention centres. We have a return investigation to make it work in a more legally secure way, and we have also just sent out an investigation for a referral. It is about people who have ended up in so-called limbo and cannot be rejected because of things that they themselves cannot influence but who can also not get a residence permit in Sweden but remain without fundamental rights. We work with that in different ways. Some things that aim to bring people back may not be very effective either. The changes that have taken place in the LMA have not led to an increase in return but rather made return difficult. When you go through the measures you want to take, you have to make sure that they are effective and actually not counterproductive.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-192	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Ferm, for your answer! It is good if the Green Party thinks this is an important issue, but I must say that I think this sounds a bit like a lip service. It became clear in the line from Maria Ferm. We can see that we are well into the parliamentary term, and very little has happened. It hasn't been a problem to deal with. It is not new information that we will soon have a shadow society of perhaps up to 100 000 people. If what the government has done in this area had been enough, I do not think we would see these forecasts as we have today. The police carried out 3,700 expulsions last year. Everyone realises that at the current rate this does not make sense. There has also been no lack of concrete proposals on how to turn this around. We have pointed out from the Moderates that we need more police officers to execute the expulsions. We need to change and tighten up the legislation. We need to increase the limitation period which today is only four years. This is far too short a time. We need to overcome the fact that a number of red-green municipalities in Sweden are using taxpayers' money to provide support for people who are residing without permission in the country, because it gives a strange signal. We need to do a survey so that we know more precisely where people are so that we can address the problems of shadow society. So there are a wide range of things that should have been a reality today, but where the government, although it is said that this is a priority, has actually been dragging its feet. I can only regret that, and I hope that Maria Ferm, the Green Party and the Social Democrats will devote more energy and energy to this issue during the remaining period of office than has been done so far.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-197	Mr President, I would like to Another issue that is also under way is workplace controls to prevent employers from using people who are not authorised to work here. That is another specific issue. I think we need to be rather careful in this debate. Firstly, it must be understood that this is incredibly complex. It's not just me saying it, it's that way. Even the border police would answer that if you asked them. There is no magic measure that allows everyone to return, not least because it involves people who are often very worried, perhaps even terrified, to return to the place from which they have fled. I also think that we need to look at which measures work and which do not. Of course, the best thing would be to increase voluntary return. What can make more people want to return? I think you were into something important when it comes to labour immigration, Johan Forssell. If you see that there are other possibilities of actually returning but in an orderly manner and under other conditions later on, it may contribute to more people returning voluntarily after having been refused their asylum applications. A major obstacle is the need to have proven identity in order to apply for a work permit, which excludes large groups of former asylum seekers. This would, for example, be a measure that I believe would be more effective in bringing people back voluntarily. The changes in LMA, which meant that we actually said that people who have received their third rejection can no longer stay in the facility housing they had to do before, has meant that we have much less track of where people who have been rejected are somewhere, which means that Johan Forssell now wants to see a map of where they can be. This makes it difficult both for voluntary return, I believe, and for police work to be made more difficult at all. I think there's a reason to think about it.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-203	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a few questions about the agreement that Maria Ferm is talking about in very positive terms and of which she is, of course, proud from the point of view of her party. I am responding to the fact that the parties that are in agreement, and especially Maria Ferm, are constantly talking about those who have become 18 years old in the meantime, without saying that they were perhaps older than they said in the first place. There has been a proposal that is based only on the individuals first registered, not on whether they were actually children or not. The fact that we have different opinions about how adults should be treated is one thing. But for me it is incomprehensible that we want to incorporate even those who have de facto stated a much too young age and who have thus tried to deceive our system, and that they should be included in this possibility. There's one thing. Another incomprehensible thing is that it is based on having come here before 24 November 2015. The time you should have waited for a decision is 15 months. If you came just before that, in November 2015, and have been waiting for 15 months then you got your decision on rejection in February and have chosen to stay illegally since then. But you still have to be covered. On the other hand, those who have listened to the decision they have received and left the country have done what they are supposed to do. They're not here anymore. But they don't get an extra chance. So you choose to reward those who circumvent our systems. Those who do not listen to the decisions they receive and who state an incorrect age are covered. What do you think of this, Maria Ferm? And how do you justify that?
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-208	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Paula Bieler for some very good questions. With regard to the first question, about age, it is in this way that those who were obviously over 18 years old when they arrived are not covered by the proposal. It may be helpful to sort out a relatively common misconception about many being deceived at their age or stating the wrong age. Most people who come to Sweden and apply for asylum as minors do not state any age. They don't know when they were born, how old they are. They may not even know the Gregorian era. Rather, it is the way that, together with the administrator at the Migration Board, you try to beat out about how old the person is and set a date for it. Often you don't know the date of birth or even the time of the year you were born. The date of birth will then be set at the date of the asylum application itself. This has led to many birthdays this autumn, as there were many who came in autumn 2015. So it is not easy to determine whether you were fooled about your age or not. On the contrary, it is our way of keeping a detailed eye on age that is not widespread in large parts of the world, especially if you live as undocumented and have never been registered anywhere. This is the case for many who have grown up in Iran and come from Afghanistan. Although people have been rejected in February, it cannot be said that they live here illegally. Many, basically all, appeal. Unfortunately, the processing times for appeals are also very long. There are therefore an incredible number who remain in the asylum process itself and who are simply waiting for a reply, either from the appeal or who have made a final appeal.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-214	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Maria, although it is still a little evasive! Those who were obviously over 18 are excluded. In this way it is, because they had a different age from the beginning. However, those who were actually adults even when they arrived will still be covered, even if later it has been demonstrated, for example through age assessments, that they are actually adults. The age assessments carried out also have a fairly good safety margin. In all probability, then, they were adults even when they arrived. Okay, I'm sure some people have appealed. However, I have still not seen any guarantee that those who have not appealed will not be included. No one's presented it. If that is the case, please inform me more than happy about this and promise that those who have stayed here illegally will not get this chance. I have not heard such a statement from the government so far. It would be a good thing if it came. I find it remarkable. It is important that it is established that this is about people who have been deemed to have no grounds for protection. It is a separate legal framework for young people because we are not considered to be able to send minors to a place without an orderly reception. But if you're an adult today, you're an adult. If I turned 18 yesterday, I would not be covered by all the rights that children have but would have to take responsibility for being an adult. This should reasonably apply to those who have made their way to our country. Why is it that people turn on themselves to give adults without protection additional opportunities to stay here, to receive paid education from our society? At the same time, for example, we do not prioritise, or act quickly, that those who behave and work but suffer mistakes that previous employers have made should be allowed to stay.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-219	Mr President, I would like to Persons who have received their third refusal, i.e. final decisions, are subject to the legislation, provided that they are present in the country. I certainly do not hope that anyone who could be included in the legislation will have time to be expelled in the period before it enters into force. This is one of the reasons why it is important to get it in place quickly, in order to give those affected a chance to stay. It's important. In terms of age assessments, there is an incredible amount to say. Among other things, there is much criticism of the methods. There are margins of error. It is particularly problematic for the group of Afghans because it will be the only way to make age likely. ID documents from Afghanistan are not considered to have very high evidentiary value, and oral evidence does not help either. Then age assessments will have a decisive impact, even though it is a criticised method with margins of error which means that minors can very well be judged to be 18 years old even if they try to ensure that it does not happen. We have also changed the whole system. Medical age assessments are now made at the beginning of the asylum process, just a few weeks after arriving in Sweden. This group is in a tight spot. For this group, age assessments have been made at the end, i.e. after several years of waiting. Then you are also years older. So if you were 16 - 17 when you arrived, you will be 18 or more now. Then you will also be judged as an adult in the medical age assessment. It is much better to do so at the beginning of the process. That's something we've changed.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-223	Mr President, I would like to For the Left Party, our budget cooperation with the government is about getting a fairer and more equal Sweden. We saw inequality increase during the time of the bourgeois government. Now that you read the financial plan, you can clearly see that it is those who have the least get the most now. It reduces inequality in our society. The Left Party has achieved many important and good reforms in the budget. It is reforms that will make a difference to a great many people. It is equality reforms that primarily benefit women and strengthen welfare. It is the biggest investment in welfare in decades: maternity care, free medicines and eyeglass benefits for children, free mammography, more employees in care for the elderly, increased housing allowances for pensioners and sick people, the right to deduct unemployment benefits and much more. Such things are done with us but not with bourgeois parties. We are also convinced that a fair and equal society with a robust well-being is capable of providing protection for and including newcomers in a much better way than a society with large gaps and a well-being that goes on its knees. The left-wing party is therefore clearly behind the budget and, therefore, also the allocation that we are discussing today. I would therefore like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. At the same time, I would like to make it quite clear that budgetary cooperation does not mean agreeing on the whole content of the policy, and this is one of those areas. Although efforts are being made in this area, which I think are good and important – Maria Ferm mentioned some of them: the effort to seek better family reunification and to allow unaccompanied minors to remain in the municipalities – there is also a great deal in the report that has been agreed with other parties. There are also remnants from other historical agreements. There's nothing strange about that, so it's with budgets. We have energy agreements, defence agreements and much more. That is also how it works and should work, so that it does not get twitchy budgets where everything is torn up every time there is a new majority. It also means that there are a lot of policies in the area of migration on which we simply do not agree. I will now point out some of the things where the Left Party would like to see a different direction. Mr President, I would like to Especially through the changes that the government has been pushing through since autumn 2015 with the support of the right-wing parties of the Riksdag, it has helped to restrict the right to asylum and undermine the spirit of the conventions governing it. This is particularly true of Sweden's actions within the EU. The fact that the number of asylum seekers in Sweden and Europe has fallen dramatically since 2015 is not due to fewer fleeing persecution and repression, but because – as Maria Ferm also mentioned in her speech – the EU has made it much more difficult to get to Europe and seek asylum. I agree that there is a real need for more legal routes to Europe. At the same time, it is recognised that changes in this legislation have strangled an important opportunity, namely the possibility of family reunification. It is important that it be reintroduced. The law on temporary restrictions on the possibility of obtaining a residence permit in Sweden has made it more difficult for people to obtain protection in Sweden, while at the same time creating insecurity and uncertainty among those who receive temporary residence permits and are denied the opportunity to reunite with their family members. Nor is there any indication that it is the temporary law that has led fewer people to apply for asylum in Sweden. Last night, I debated the now negotiated evaluation of the temporary law with the Minister for Migration, and I note that the government is in no way able to demonstrate how the law has fulfilled the stated objectives. If there is any such evidence, I look forward to seeing them. The expenditure target also mentions exploiting and taking into account the development effects of migration. The Left Party believes that this objective cannot be achieved with current policies aimed at keeping people in refugee camps and detention under miserable conditions. It is also a policy that is partly financed through aid funds. The aid money to help people out of poverty is used by Sweden and the EU to keep people in poverty and oppression, including through the Turkey Agreement. The stories from Libya certainly do not leave anyone untouched. Yet the government and right-wing parties of the Parliament continue to support the EU's funding of the Libyan coastguard who commits some of these abuses. Mr President, I would like to On a daily basis, new information on the lack of legal certainty in the asylum procedures comes. This applies not least to the age assessments of unaccompanied minors, which have been criticised by a large number of experts in this field. We just heard in a change of line an account of the difficulties that exist with age assessments. The Director General of the Migration Agency once said fairly accurately that most of us know how old we are only from hearsay. There's something people have told us. It's not something we really know. This is also true of many of the children we are now talking about. Weaknesses in interpreters', assistants' and administrators' knowledge have also been highlighted. The fact that these shortcomings continue without any action by the government is incomprehensible. The Left Party believes that the government must act decisively to ensure the legal quality of the asylum process. These are very serious shortcomings that have been highlighted by assistants, good men and civil society organisations. The government and other parties often talk about the need for a well-functioning return in order for Sweden's asylum system to be sustainable in the long term. I agree with this and with the fact that those who have been refused their asylum application should be able to return. Unfortunately, with the support of the right-wing parties, the government has chosen to pursue a policy that partly contradicts that aim. The change in the LMA Act means that the person who receives a rejection of his/her asylum application, except for children and families with children, loses the right to assistance and housing. It is the clearest example of how government policies have opposite effects. The ambition with the change of law was that more would return to their homelands, but that has not been the case. Rather, the police and the Migration Agency have had less opportunity to carry out the return work that must be done when you do not know where people are. Mr President, I would like to Finally, the unaccompanied minors who have applied for asylum in Sweden have been particularly affected by the government's shift in politics. The result has been a long wait with an uncertain end, the risk of being deported to a country that you have never visited or the place that you have fled from for fear of your own life has created enormous stress and anxiety with self-harm and suicide as the ultimate consequence. In 2017, 14 unaccompanied persons have taken their own lives. During the month of November, 5 young people rejected their lives. It's a young one every six days. Suicide is thus seven times as common in this group as in the corresponding age group that has grown up in Sweden. The situation of the unaccompanied persons has aroused an enormous commitment around Sweden that has not least manifested in the movements We cannot stand and Young in Sweden. These movements, after a long struggle, have led the government to act. The Left Party welcomes the agreement presented by the government, but we still see some problems and some concerns. It is well known that the Left Party would have preferred an amnesty with permanent residence permits for unaccompanied minors. Nevertheless, we are prepared to look at the proposals and, if possible, to help improve them. There are several questions in the proposal that need to be corrected. The sneaky construction and tight eye of the Gymnasie team are few young people who manage to pass. There are questions about where young people who came after 24 November and expected as long as should not be covered. The question of legal uncertainty about age assessments and revaluations is a third question mark. But most serious is the gap that may arise between rejection and until the law comes into force this summer. This clearly means that a lot of young people may be hiding. It is important for us to look at this issue carefully, and there are different ways of solving it. The government could do something in its regulation letter, but the parliament could also authorise the government and the relevant authorities to make exceptions to the Aliens Act. For me, the most important thing is that solutions should be found, and I hope that the government is aware of that.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-244	Mr President, I would like to One might perhaps be able to deal quite quickly with the temporary brake to get legislation in place. The problem that the Left Party sees may not be seen. But we have also dealt with the issue of labour migration in the autumn. It was a total fiasco, if you want to be clear. It should have been clear from the outset that the proposal was far too far-reaching to go through at all without a proper preparation time. With regard to the issue of labour migration and the expulsion of key people who have not done anything wrong themselves, who alone cannot remedy the errors and whose employers are unable to remedy them, all parties in this House agree. One should be able to go in and review the various regulatory letters and appropriations and indicate how different authorities should be able to make temporary departures so as not to risk people who work, do the right thing and contribute to our society being expelled until we have proper legislation in place, which hopefully comes soon. I chose to try to initiate a committee initiative on the matter. I thought it should be possible, given that everyone agrees. But I did not get support from anyone, nor from the Left Party. I would therefore like to know how you think about this.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-247	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. The whole committee tried to bring about a change together. We in the Left Party originally preferred a different direction, because we were worried about some of the problems we later encountered. However, we saw that there was a majority in favour of achieving something, and that is why we were prepared to look at it. I think that is a constructive approach. It turned out, however, that this could not be done. When the Swedish Democrats and Paula Bieler then presented their proposal, I found it difficult to see that it could be implemented much earlier than the proposal we have jointly decided on. Nor did Paula Bieler put forward any proposals as concrete as what I just mentioned with regard to the unaccompanied. I'm glad that Paula Bieler requested a reply to me, because I thought it was interesting to listen to the description of how people should be able to move around in the vision of the Swedish Democrats. It's kind of like when the lions play with the lambs. It was a description that was not really aimed at people who have been tortured or persecuted, it was about people being able to study and become citizens of Sweden. We know that the Swedish Democrats always create narrower and narrower rules and guidelines for what it means to be Swedish. It is a Swedishness that includes very few of us.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-252	Mr President, I would like to Committee initiatives can be changed, and I also gave you plenty of time to come up with proposals for changes. You can always negotiate and improve. I wrote deliberately in the way I wrote because I think above all that one did not need to have that long preparation process that exists in sharp legislative proposals. It was rather a call to the government to use the various tools available, for example to review the regulations and targets for the Migration Agency and so on. That would have been a clear signal to take hold of this in order to ensure that the expulsions are stopped now. After all, a government has more opportunities than we as Members of Parliament have, and it can use more tools. It is regrettable that they did not even want to have a discussion on this and that they adopted a proposal so early that they did not really think it was reasonable in the situation that prevailed. In fact, we supported the Left Party's motion, with a little modification, in order for it to become sharp legislation directly. Then the new legislation that we have now been able to extend could have been extended. But despite the process of preparation and the path chosen, I still find it difficult to see why one could not have this as a temporary stop law, for example. After all, there was a bill, which was rejected, however, because the departure had become too great and it had opened up far too much. It could have been a temporary law. In that case, we can blame other parties. I know that Christina Höja Larsen for a short while and after TCO's recommendations was on temporary legislation. Let me turn to our vision. First of all, we do not define Swedishness, but we think it is reasonable that in order to become a citizen you should be able to speak the Swedish language and that you should know social education, just as we learn about our country in primary school when we grow up here. It is true that we are not talking about migration primarily for those living in crisis situations, because it is important to help them where they are. I do not see migration as the best way to help. However, when refugee status has been granted, we say that not only does it need to be referred to a quota refugee system, but it should also be possible as a refugee to seek other ways, for example by studying or working.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-258	Mr President, I would like to No, the Left Party does not negotiate anything with the Swedish Democrats. We will never do that, and that is why we do not go in and negotiate or look at a committee initiative from the Swedish Democrats. We don't do that for two different reasons. One is about the views of the Swedish democrats on who is included in our We have heard other Vice-President Björn Söder say that Sami and Jews are not Swedes in any real sense. We have heard the group leader Mattias Karlsson say that Zlatan is not Swedish because of some way he moves. We have also heard Mattias Karlsson accuse wildly young people with a residence permit to be terrorists. This is one reason why one cannot negotiate with such a party. Yours is mobile and limited, and it will never involve all of us who want a society that belongs to all of us. The second reason is that you are also a right-wing party. If you look at your latest budget, you can see that the richest tenth of the population receives more than twice as much tax cut as the average wage earner. In addition, the richest tenth receives 13 times as much as those in our society that have the least. The Swedish Democrats are a right-wing party for the richest. You show this time and again in the budget. In addition, you are a party that constantly moves the boundaries of who we are. We will not negotiate with such a party.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-263	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the committee for examining the Government's proposal. I'd like to start with a little background. I would like to say that I am extremely proud of the responsibility that Sweden has taken and is taking with regard to the global refugee crisis. Sweden has saved thousands of lives, and Sweden continues to save thousands of lives. Together in Sweden, we have carried out the largest humanitarian effort since the Second World War. Over the last four years, more than 300 000 people have applied for asylum in Sweden. Sixty per cent of them were told last year that they have protection reasons and have thus been granted a residence permit. Most of those who have been protected have fled the war in Syria, and they met, just as Carina Ohlsson said, a society that was at hand at national and local level. In addition, civil society and individuals made enormous efforts. Therefore, it is important to say that the reception of refugees should be sustainable, and it should be sustainable in the long term. We must be able to do this all the time, and we must be able to do what we have now, but also to cope with any future crises. Developments in 2015 became unsustainable. I don't think anyone really disagrees. The temporary law and the introduction of border controls were necessary decisions. The Government sees how important it is and therefore gives a clear statement that it considers that the temporary law needs to apply until summer 2019. The government's measures have meant that far fewer have gone to Sweden. We see that more countries are shouldering their responsibilities. It can never be just a country's responsibility to provide shelter for people on the run. The joint and several responsibility is important for Sweden. We are vigorously pushing this position also at European level. I came back last night after attending a ministerial meeting yesterday. There was, of course, this particular issue on the agenda. Commissioner Avramopoulos announced that the Commission is now acting strongly against the countries – Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic – which have obstinated against the 2015 redistributive decision. This may mean that they are brought before the European Court of Justice. Sweden welcomes the Commission's ability to act. Next week the Heads of State or Government will meet. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven then goes to a meeting to continue the discussion, among other things within the framework of Leader's Agenda on Migration and Security, where the goal is consensus. At national level, I would like to say that solidarity has developed in a positive direction. The law of instruction that we agreed in the Riksdag applies and works better and better. With this legislation, we see in many places that more and more municipalities assume their responsibilities for distribution. More and more municipalities are also actively working on measures and measures for asylum seekers as well as new arrivals. We see a positive development. Employment is increasing. Unemployment is falling. Youth unemployment has not been so low in 14 years. Housing is being built as never before – 70 000 are planned for this year alone. Schools and preschools are being built to meet our population growth and development. In short, this is really about the fact that society is now in every way involved in its responsibility in what we call the Swedish model. It works when the national level interacts with the local level and there are resources to redistribute. The Government has a very clear mission to the Migration Agency to shorten the processing times. In the latest forecast we see that we go from an average of 15 months to 14. That is the right direction, but it is not fast enough. The government is following this development and seeing the reality. We have taken responsibility for this by, among other things, putting forward three concrete proposals: the temporary regulation for those who came in 2015 as unaccompanied minors and have waited for a very long time, a statement about the temporary law for the third year, and a reform of the rules on their own housing, which many municipalities bear witness to, have led to increased overcrowding and segregation. In this respect, the government gives a statement of a more dignified focus on EBO. The government is also working on people being able to come to Sweden and get a residence permit for both studies and work. We've been reviewing the regulations. There are shortcomings in the system introduced by the bourgeois government. Therefore, the Riksdag has decided that there should now be the possibility of self-rectification for employers. We don't think that's enough. An investigation is currently looking at the possibility of correcting minor mistakes. We find it totally unreasonable that it is the workers who are affected by this when it is really the employers who have to deal with laws and regulations properly. In addition, I would like to say that we support in every way the efforts of the UNHCR, the IOM and the UN in the world for refugees in refugee camps, for combating trafficking in human beings and for finding legal ways. Asylum testing always involves difficult decisions. That's how it is, and that's how it always will be. That is why it is so crucial that we stand up for the functioning of the asylum system, regulated immigration and return work. Our budget takes responsibility for this. In this way, Mr President, I welcome the debate.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-276	Mr President, I would like to I came to note two words which the Government used in her speech and which I think are positive; she said that migration policy should be long-term and sustainable. But it is not the words of this House that really matter, but what we then do concretely in reality, what we are doing. In the proposal that the government has now presented on unaccompanied minors, very much remains unclear, for example how much this will cost – such a small detail in this context. Nevertheless, it is clear to me that the proposal is neither long-term nor sustainable. In fact, I am surprised that the Social Democrats agree to such a proposal. I have to say it. I thought we agreed that Sweden needs a stronger migration policy in the coming years. But now the government, less than a year and a half after the temporary law came into force, takes a big step in a completely different direction and says that it should no longer be required for protection reasons to be granted a residence permit in Sweden. We have very big integration problems in Sweden and will have so coming years. We also currently have 80 000 people enrolled in the reception system of the Migration Agency. In that case, 9 000 people who do not have grounds for protection will still be granted a residence permit. I think that is an extremely strange priority. I would like to ask the Minister for Migration: where is the justice in that a person who has complied with the law and returned home should not be covered by this, while a person who has broken the law and still remains in Sweden should be given this special solution?
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-281	Mr President, I would like to I think that Maria Ferm has answered that question in an excellent way, but I should be happy to try to provide further answers. The government sees the long processing times. The government sees that it came as the sole arrival in autumn 2015. Due to the length of the proceedings, they have been assessed as adults. The government then wants to take responsibility for the reality we have. A lot of these people are still in the country. This makes the proposal to offer education an extremely important investment in young people's lives. They are in Sweden and have been subject to very long processing times. Now we take responsibility for it. However, listening to the debate in this House today, I have to say that I am still a little amazed at how Johan Forssell can be a little irritated by the fact that the government is now gathering together three concrete proposals that are involved in the reality of migration issues in municipalities and county councils. Johan Forssell stands here and says that it is important to have a bourgeois collection and a bourgeois government. But it has never been as divided as it is now, judging by the debate. I am currently seeing three blocks in migration policy as I listen to the debate in here. I see a very clear line-up. Swedish democrats and Moderates question the right of asylum and want to extend and permanent the temporary law. I see a block somewhere in the middle with liberals and center parties. And so I see a clarity on the part of the government. It is a division into three very clear blocs, although I believe that the Christian Democrats have friends in a little different groupings. Here I think that Johan Forssell is guilty of the answer.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-284	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. It is always difficult to decide before a debate how to summarise it. For then you have not been able to listen to what is being said. I would just like to point out that not all alliance parties have spoken in this debate. It may be a little early to sum up what has been said. In fact, I would not have to argue for why this proposal is legally insecure, arbitrary, unsustainable and unfair. Heléne Fritzon himself has done so in a very commendable way. Only a few weeks ago, the Minister for Migration made this clear. The Minister of Migration even said that it was important to be clear. Nevertheless, in this House today, we hear the Minister for Migration say the opposite, after just a few weeks. It should be remembered that Heléne Fritzon was just standing in the speaker's seat and impressed on him the importance of being long-term. It is rather short the best-before-date on the information provided by the Minister for Migration. After just a few weeks you are prepared to say the opposite. I do not think it is long-term, and I do not think it is sustainable. Regardless of the size you want to have on the Swedish refugee reception in the future – there you can think differently, which I have great respect for – this bill is not worked out. There is not even an estimate of how much this will cost. It is as hasty as the other thing we have experienced throughout this parliamentary term, with various shortcomings and errors in the policy put forward by the government. There is no long-term perspective. There is no long-term thought. There are only panic attacks here and now – one step forward, half a step back and then half a step aside. That is not what Sweden needs.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-287	Mr President, I would like to I have said several times in debates with Johan Forssell that the three concrete proposals made by the government do not affect the current right of asylum at all. I do not know if it is difficult for Johan Forssell to understand that the temporary regulation is aimed at those who came in autumn 2015, i.e. before 24 November. It is not possible to come today and say: I want to be tried on the basis of the temporary regulation. I hope this has become clear. Although not all parties have chosen to participate in the debate, I have of course read the draft budgets and maintain that there are concrete differences between the bourgeois parties. It is not a joint proposal. It is clear that the Moderates want to transform the right of asylum and that the other parties on the bourgeois edge do not share that view. The question to Johan Forssell is: How will the Moderates get this policy through? What support do the Moderates have to remove the current right of asylum and turn it into quota systems? In addition, I would like to say that I have actually prepared myself in such a way that I have listened to last year's debate. It was quite interesting to hear that Johan Forssell there expresses a few things that are not included in the debate today. He says that too little is being built in Sweden. The answer to that question is today: 70 000 new homes are being built this year. It was also given in last year's debate a completely different figure over shadow society. It was higher than the figure mentioned today. Then you wonder what reality Johan Forssell sees.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-292	Mr President, I would like to I was initially going to say something about where and how we are actually doing our humanitarian efforts. Rather, we would like to see foreign aid, medical aid, foreign forces securing peace and helping people in need, subsidies through various relief organisations and so on. That is where I claim that we are making real humanitarian efforts, not through a reception based on an asylum system. The Minister tells us that we want to undermine the right of asylum. I would argue that we would rather strengthen it and restore its original purpose, that is to give people protection as soon as possible and as close as possible to the place where they are located, rather than keeping alive a system that today creates incentives for people to move far. It also creates incentives for countries to provide as bad conditions as possible to avoid being the sole beneficiaries. But that is not what I was going to ask about now, but I was going to ask about the European Union and the negotiations there. When Heléne Fritzon was appointed Minister of State, it was pointed out that she was a good negotiator. I'm asking myself a little bit. You are talking about hoping for unity, while it should be clear to the vast majority that there are huge differences of opinion. Today it is rather the case that the proposals on the table have gone in the opposite direction compared to what the other parties in this House think and what the Swedish position unfortunately is. I am somewhat concerned by the fact that we welcome the fact that those countries that have a different opinion should be punished and brought to justice. The Government speaks of the desire to reach agreement and also mentions in its speech the decisions on, for example, the municipal instructions that we have agreed in this House. I would like to point out that we have not agreed on this; you have agreed, some of you, but not all of us, not all of us in this House. There are some who run over others. I wonder whether the government believes that this is how it should be resolved – simply forcing those countries that do not want to receive something that is called solidarity.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-297	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish position, anchored in the Riksdag, is very clear. It is based on a common view of people in the Swedish parliament. There is one party that does not share that view of people. The basis is that we should have a joint and several division of responsibilities, and that is also what Sweden is pushing in the negotiations. There too, however, we are faced with political expressions such as those represented by Paula Bieler – not only from Hungary, the Czech Republic and Poland, but also from other countries where the right winds have been blowing and where today there is less concern to sit down at the negotiating table and settle for joint and several responsibilities. Solidarity can never ever be elective; it must be taken seriously. The work of the government will continue forcefully, and we now have the support of the Commission and a great many parties and countries in Europe. I am convinced that we can solve the task of establishing a common asylum system in Europe. The line that the Swedish Democrats represent, that there is some kind of goodness in acting around, beyond the borders of Europe, does not hold up if you have a human vision that stands up for the equal value of all people.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-301	Mr President, I would like to I am inclined to agree: we do not have the same view of humanity. I see that people have value even before they reach our continent. I see they are suffering where they are. But at the same time I see a Western world boasting that you actually help the few who get here via smugglers and on illegal roads, who are risking their lives or who are actually using the systems when they see that we are not really in control. That's where we choose to bet. We also clearly have different views of solidarity. I would prefer to talk about humanity, for it is something I think is important: that one sees one's fellow human beings, wherever on earth they are. Solidarity, on the other hand, is based on having something in common; it is the idea of one for all and all for one. You can't force it. But to have humanity, to help people and to take a responsibility in solidarity – for that I think most people still want to, even me – can go about in different ways. I believe that, with the situation prevailing around the world, it is neither sustainable nor solidarity-based to focus only on those who come here. We focus on helping by moving people here, allowing their countries to perish, allowing regimes to banish people and forcing them away and allowing countries to get away with providing as bad conditions as possible so that people choose not to seek asylum there but to go further. We are keeping alive a system that is built for a completely different age and a completely different situation. Don't come and talk to me about human vision! I choose to see the whole world and the people around in the sufferer, and I choose to realize that we need to think globally if we want to make a real effort. I don't focus on those that I currently have in my presence and see ahead of me– I see that other people also exist.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-306	Mr President, I would like to Well, Paula Bieler, I'll talk to you about human vision. It is very important that we do so in our country and that we, in fact, also reveal in that debate what the Swedish Democrats stand for. You're standing here talking about some kind of goodness. We manage a budget where the Swedish Democrats make huge savings on municipalities and county councils, 13 billion, and in this area are prepared to remove almost 6 billion. In Paula Bieler's world, Sweden had not stood up and welcomed the families from Syria. This is the answer given by Paula Bieler and the Swedish Democrats in the debate on migration. The country of Sweden is not prepared to open up to families from Syria when there is an open war. This is what I call the human view of the Swedish democrats.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-309	Mr President, I would like to If you as the Government do not have experience and knowledge of the Riksdag's rules, perhaps you should express yourself with some caution. Our migration policy spokesperson, my colleague Johanna Jönsson, has chosen, with the Minister's choice of words, to lie in sick beds today, and that is why I am here and, according to Parliament's rules, have four minutes at my disposal to make a speech. Mr President, I would like to If someone were to paint the picture that the fact that someone had applied and got a job through Linkedin, attended a close relative's funeral in their home country or suffered a mistake from the employer six years ago would result in the person being expelled after many years in Sweden with a few weeks' notice, you would say: But this cannot be true, not in a country like Sweden! But it's happening now. Every week, people who have come here and worked here for many years and created a life of telling themselves that they will leave the country immediately. In order for them to be able to get back here with a new certificate, two years of processing time for a new application is waiting for the Migration Agency. What is even more absurd is that there is not a single party in this Parliament that does not want to change this so that errors can be corrected afterwards. There is a great need for international competence in many workplaces. It is sometimes key people in companies who are expelled in this way. But the government is taking its time. The order is made by a united parliament, and I expect it to be delivered as soon as possible. The Center Party believes that the position of labour migration needs to be strengthened. Expulsion due to small trifles must be stopped. You need to be able to switch tracks from asylum to work – not to deny those who need protection, but to give people the opportunity to start building for their future if they can start their life here without support. Mr President, I would like to This debate is basically about human dignity, fundamental rights and Sweden's responsibility for those who have come here. More than 65 million people are on the run in the world today. This is a huge challenge for the international community. It puts pressure on European cooperation, and it gives Sweden clear but difficult tasks to solve. Protecting human rights, the rule of law and human dignity is a fundamental task that Sweden must cope with. That is our duty. But we can't do it ourselves. EU cooperation needs to be an important part of this. Mr President, I would like to The policy of the Center Party combines order and order with humanism. We defend the right to seek protection, the right to reunite with their family, the security of asylum seekers and an effective path to integration. At the same time, we see the challenges that exist and the major reforms that are needed. The Center Party wants to redirect migration towards more self-sufficiency by means of expenditure-reduction reforms. Among other things, we need to facilitate labour migration, combat exclusion and insecurity, strengthen integration, shorten processing times and improve legal certainty. For the Center Party, it is important to take responsibility and demonstrate action, including by participating in talks and cross-block agreements on difficult challenges. The Center Party has been pushing for a long time to ensure that unaccompanied minors who were minors when they arrived but who had reached the age of 18 during the asylum process are given a new chance. That is why we welcomed the fact that the government presented a proposal along these lines. It pleased us. When we then try to understand what it is the government has agreed on and what it means, we see that there are many question marks. Johanna Jönsson, our migration policy spokesperson, visited Rosenbad yesterday to find out what the proposal means. She had many questions when she went there and more when she left. The proposal leaves a lot to be desired. The Green Party has had an honest ambition to get as far as possible. The Social Democrats, on the other hand, are very divided. All the questions contained in the proposal show the deep disagreement as to what the government wants to achieve. Is it really a proposal put forward for its implementation, or is it a strategically well-balanced bad proposal that the Social Democrats have intended to be stopped by others? What we see for open curtains is a divided government and a divided social democracy.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-320	Mr President, I would like to We normally use this speaker's chair to tell you what we disagree about. However, I intend to use my speaking time primarily for what we agree on. In December 2015, the countries of the world agreed on a new climate agreement. This happened at a UN meeting in Paris. The global temperature increase should be kept well below 2 degrees, and we will work to make it stop at 1.5 degrees. That is very ambitious. Sweden's commitment at the climate summit in Paris was to become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. Since around three quarters of all oil imports in Sweden are used in the transport sector, this is at the heart of the social change that must take place. Here in the Riksdag, we parties have agreed that climate impact from domestic transport will decrease by at least 70 per cent by 2030. I'm very pleased with that. I intend here to outline five strategies to achieve that goal. The first is to invest in electrified transport where every terawatt hour of electricity can do the most good in terms of transporting people and goods, i.e. transport by rail. Total energy consumption in the transport sector needs to be significantly reduced because sustainable bioenergy is not at all enough to replace the volume of fossil fuels we have today. Therefore, the transition from car and air to public passenger transport and the transition from road to rail and shipping to goods is crucial if the transport sector is to become fossil-free. The railways are by far the most energy efficient means of transporting people and goods. The Swedish negotiation, which was set up by the previous government – at that time it was called the construction of Sweden – has now concluded agreements on residential construction with municipalities along the new high-speed railway that will be built between Stockholm and Malmö and Gothenburg respectively. A total of 720 kilometres of new track is planned. Rail is the most important tool for expanding labour market regions, stimulating economic development and reducing dependence on oil imports. We have allocated SEK 622.5 billion for a national infrastructure plan 2018 – 2029. The government also proposes the introduction of a flight tax. We have decided on this in the case of flights where travel times are such that they can be replaced by rail. Seen per inhabitant, France is the most railing country in Europe, but Sweden is number two. People vote with their feet by choosing the train to reduce their impact on the earth's climate. Unlike cars and flights, train rides can easily be combined with work, socializing and rest. There are many of us who like to use the train and want to live near a train station. I see it as the task of politics to make it easier for more people to do so. The second strategy is to maintain and strengthen public transport as a basis for people's urban mobility. Mobility as a service– combined mobility– is a very strong trend right now. People use smartphones for a variety of purposes. Smartphones create new opportunities to combine public transport with taxis, rental bikes, car pools and other mobility devices. Through policy, mobility as a service should be facilitated as it creates attractive alternatives to unnecessary driving. However, it is very important that public transport is the basis of urban transport systems. Cars are very surface-intensive, and regardless of their fuel or technology – if they are self-driving, for example – they are difficult to combine with most things that make cities attractive and pleasant to be in. This is why the government has introduced urban environment agreements, which increase municipalities' ability to strengthen their public transport. The use of congestion charges to reduce car traffic and facilitate the accessibility of public transport was something for which we Greens fought hard. We were initially quite alone in this, but now, in principle, everyone realises that it is quite rational to distribute space in cities with congestion charges when space is scarce. The third strategy is about creating good conditions for cycling. To switch from car to bicycle and walk can virtually all people afford. Society's investments to provide a basis for active mobility are very small in relation to the health benefits achieved. Half of all car journeys in Sweden are less than five kilometres. Eighty per cent of all urban car journeys are less than three or four kilometres. The conditions for conversion are therefore good. There is a strong scientific basis which we in the Committee on Transport have recently received and which shows that sedentary is the cigarette of our time in view of the health consequences. Hard surface suitable for cycling already exists and can quickly be put into use if only politics dares to remove parking spaces and car files. The fourth is about phasing out all subsidies for what is keeping us in oil-fueled transport. Sweden was the first in the world with carbon tax. The world subsidises fossil fuels with around USD 5 500 billion a year. That is more than the world's governments have in terms of total spending on health care. The IEA, the International Energy Agency, has designated fossil subsidies as the enemy of sustainability number one. They did so at the Paris climate summit. At that time, Sweden's Prime Minister Stefan Löfven also handed over a communiqué on how the world can phase out fossil fuels. At the national level, the government shows its commitment through, among other things, the Fossil-free Sweden initiative, which brings together companies, organisations and other actors who can help to break oil dependence. Divesting, i.e. moving money away from oil-driven activities, has become a growing trend for universities, pension funds, insurance companies, private individuals and others. The fifth strategy is about what is mainly outside the cities. National networks need to be established that make gas and electric transport possible throughout the country. We are pleased that we have been able to agree on the change of fuel in the Swedish parliament, i.e. to reduce the share of fossils in what is sold at the regular petrol and diesel sales. But that's not enough. Everywhere in the world, the population of cities protests against being exposed to harmful exhaust gases. The Government has therefore developed documentation to give municipalities the right to issue environmental zone regulations so that they can include passenger cars in addition to heavy-duty vehicles. The system is not quite clear yet, but my guess is that many municipalities will allow only near zero emissions in their inner-city zones. In practice, then, only electric and biogas vehicles will be allowed. The availability of sustainable biomaterials is limited. We must take care of our forests, and Sweden cannot set an example for other countries if we mainly change our climate in fuel by importing fuels. It is therefore important that the strategy to achieve an oil-free transport system, especially in urban areas and gas solutions, particularly for long distances, complements reasonably well. Sweden is a sparsely populated country, and outside the cities private carism will continue to play a major role in people's movement. The government has helped many municipalities to set up biogas stations, to install charging infrastructure for electric vehicles and other investments that can facilitate the transition to a fossil-free transport system. Climate impact and energy efficiency are fundamental criteria when choosing future transport solutions. However, for transport to be sustainable in the long term, the use of finite raw materials must gradually be replaced by circular resource management. The production of biogas in the treatment of waste water and biological waste is a perfect example of such circular resource management – a cycle. Sweden has a automotive industry with extensive experience in developing trucks, buses and passenger cars that can work in many countries. Wastewater and organic residues are found in all municipalities worldwide. The need for healthy circular solutions is great, while in some places there are problems with the supply of electricity. This is why gas-powered trucks and buses are something that has great potential to strengthen local communities and reduce vulnerability and expensive oil imports. Modern and green society must replace today's fossil-dependent, climate-affected and vulnerable society. In this transformation, Sweden will continue to take the lead and become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-341	Mr President, I would like to I hold here in my hand a catalogue of reforms and initiatives in the field of transport and infrastructure from 2014 until now. The sender is our Social Democratic-led government, which in autumn 2014 got the Swedish people's confidence to build Sweden strong again. This catalogue contains the vision of a modern built society that holds together, creating security, hope and future faith in people's everyday lives. This catalogue is proof that a Social Democratic-led government has the ability to perform and deliver despite difficult parliamentary situations. This catalogue, Mr President, shows how important it is for Sweden that a Social Democratic-led government continues to build Sweden strongly. There are reforms on the right conditions in the transport sector, which is a priority for us. We have introduced a sanction fee of SEK 40 000 for those road haulage companies that violate cabotage rules and higher fines for infringements of driving and rest periods. Cabotage transport, for those who do not know, is occasional transport carried out in a Member State other than the country in which the carrier is registered. The rules say that the haulage company can do a maximum of three domestic transports within seven days, and then the journey will go back to the home country again. We have made it possible for the police to lock the wheels of trucks, what is called ‘sticking', and to seize vehicle keys and registration plates to prevent further travel unless the penalty fee is paid or if the truck is in inoperable condition. Competition on equal terms is not something we fear, but the unhealthy and unsound competition that hits hard against Swedish haulage industry should be removed. Order and order should apply on Swedish roads, just as in the rest of society. We also make it possible to drive heavier trucks, up to 74 tonnes, which can mean more efficient and climate-smart road haulage. This builds Sweden strong! Mr President, I would like to If we browse the catalogue a little later, we will meet another priority area, namely railway maintenance. More, heavier and faster trains in denser traffic work hard on our tracks, switches and contact lines while the infrastructure has not been expanded or maintained at the corresponding rate. Rail maintenance is still in great need of reinforcements. The government has complied with this by investing an extra 1.34 billion per year since 2016. Now we take an even bigger step and increase the investment by another 40 billion over the next twelve years. Our goal is fixed: More trains should go on time, and punctuality should increase. Signal errors are today the most common cause of the delays. This is largely due to the fact that the plant in parts is over 50 years old and is becoming exhausted. Sweden will therefore gradually introduce a modern and more reliable system that creates less risk of delays. However, Mr President, it will take more than a billion dollars and a new signalling system to get a reliable rail system. The state, i.e. the Finnish Transport Agency, needs to have a better control of its plant and a more comprehensive responsibility for maintenance operations. In order for the whole country to live, a functioning railway is required with trains that go on time. It builds Sweden strong. Road safety is another priority area to be read about in this reform catalogue. As part of the government's new drive towards road safety and increased safety on our roads, the government has made a number of important decisions. This applies to automated sobriety checks, what we call alcoboms, which will be introduced in ports next year in order to reduce drunk driving in traffic. There will be winter tyre requirements on all trucks' wheels when winter road conditions prevail. This applies to both Swedish and foreign combinations that drive on Swedish roads. There will also be a ban on talking or surfing with your mobile phone in your hand while driving. Mr President, I would like to Our starting point is that people should be able to live and work throughout our country. Taking advantage of the wealth that exists around the country is a prerequisite for the Swedish economy to function. In order for Sweden to continue to develop as a strong welfare country, a strong and robust infrastructure is required. The Government has recently decided on an All-Sweden initiative with targeted money for, among other things, bearing capacity and torches on roads in the countryside and a special investment to improve the road network on Gotland. Access to broadband even has a crucial role to play in enabling us to live and operate throughout the country, be able to take part in basic public services and be fully involved in society. In the future, many of our welfare services will have major digital features. The government's new broadband strategy, A fully connected Sweden, is the first of its kind to cover everyone living in Sweden. Rural areas and sparsely populated areas are now fully integrated into the objectives. Everyone should have access to a fast connection by 2025. It builds Sweden strong! In our community building, Madam President, climate-smart transport has a given role. We can't back down into the future. The transport sector accounts for one third of Sweden's emissions, which we in this Parliament have decided will decrease by 70 percent by 2030. Therefore, strong reforms are needed now to make Sweden one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. There is a complete burst of activities around various climate projects around the country, not least thanks to the government's introduction of the urban environment agreements and the Climate Centre, which means a major effort on public transport, bicycle, charging poles and other carbon reduction measures both in cities and municipalities. In Helsingborg, Gävle and Karlstad it is invested thanks to urban planning agreements on buses that can quickly and smoothly drive through the cities in their own lanes and thus attract more people to travel collectively. The point of the urban environment agreements and the climate category is that they are designed so that cities and municipalities themselves can identify their solutions based on what is unique to their particular situation. Climate-smart solutions that fit in Kalmar may not work as well in Västerås. To change Sweden, the government is now making major structural efforts aimed at both industry and the transport sector. We also make efforts to make it easier to have a sustainable everyday life. These include investments in solar cells, charging poles and electric bicycles, for example. The change of fuel, Madam President, is another important instrument and is about gradually replacing petrol and diesel in the tank with sustainable fuels, such as biofuels. This will lead to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. We can already see that total greenhouse gas emissions from heavy-duty vehicles have been reduced thanks to the change of fuel from fossil to biofuels. Through the government's investment in development and innovation, Sweden will be at the forefront of future transport solutions, and this is extremely important for a transport-dependent country such as ours. Madam President, I would like We are talking about major investments in new roads and railways and billions of dollars in maintaining what we already have. It's about alco-bommers, improved roads in the countryside, bike initiatives, charging poles and fuel change in the tank. These include incentives for more freight on shipping and support for regional airports as well as a major effort on free public transport for schoolchildren during the summer holidays. When we build the country, Madam President, we do not save the gunpowder! In spring, the government will take a decision on the national transport plan for the next twelve years, an historic investment of 622 billion. Sweden is now experiencing high growth, and we must hold on to that. This calls for continued investment in transport and infrastructure. It builds Sweden strong! Madam President, I would like Our reform catalogue tells us about a modern society that holds together, creates hope, security and future faith in people's everyday lives. The catalogue shows that a Social Democratic-led government is capable of managing the trust of the Swedish people – despite difficult parliamentary situations. This catalogue shows how important it is for Sweden with a continued social democratic-led government that builds the country strong. I request the approval of reservations 1 and 2.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-366	Madam President, I would like Responsible policy requires a well-thought-out view of society and a long-term route to build Sweden stronger. Unfortunately, the government's traffic policy creates uncertainty when it should create predictability. You put your legs away for people and businesses when you should look after the needs of the whole country. The focus of the Moderates is clear: As the population grows and people's need for travel increases as well as the need for companies to have their goods delivered, we all need our traffic types. Working transport is crucial for jobs, growth and, by extension, prosperity and well-being in our country. But let us be honest: when we talk about transport, we also talk about the environment and climate. The transport sector accounts for one third of Sweden's emissions, and we have a great responsibility to achieve sustainability here too. However, it is important that we manage to keep two thoughts in our heads at the same time. Sustainability and mobility need not be mutually exclusive. Sweden is a country with great distances and different conditions. For someone, the railway is the obvious choice, while the car is the only option for someone else. Both are needed, along with aviation, shipping and bicycle. Distances cannot be changed, and that is why it is emissions and not transport itself that we must combat. A robust railway is crucial for climate-smart and efficient transport. Unfortunately, the state of the Swedish railway leaves much to be desired. People freeze on platforms while waiting for trains that do not arrive, and the goods of industry do not arrive when it should. I'm proud that the Alliance government doubled the grant for railway maintenance. I am equally pleased that this government is continuing to invest in the railways, and in the forthcoming national plan, the Moderates are spending just as much money on the railways as the government does. However, the railways have over 43 000 inspection notes waiting to be corrected, and money is not the only answer. There is also a need for better governance so that the money comes out in the tracks. It is remarkable that the government has not wanted to tackle the obvious governance problems that exist and that, for example, it does not refer and follow up the solid investigation of over a thousand pages on how to improve the organization of the railways. On 13 November, the first spadet was taken for the construction of the Kardonbanan railway and, in the long run, Ostlinken between Linköping and Järna – an important project to strengthen and expand Swedish railway, which was decided by the Alliance Government. It is gratifying that the first shovel has now been taken! D is not only more of the maintenance that the Swedish railway needs. It is crowded on the tracks, and new capacity is needed. However, the Moderates have warned against putting their faith in a far-off project on high-speed lines of 200 – 300 billion that will be clear at some point in the future and that the government has so far not even managed to present serious funding for. It does not solve the problems of rail in the coming years, but above all it risks crowding out other important objects and putting taxpayers at great risk. From the government's side, it is noticeably quiet right now, and here both people and municipalities around the country deserve a clear statement of which path the government intends to go and what funding is envisaged. The Moderates believe in Swedish railways but also in a responsible economic policy. As I said, the Spadtag for Ostlinken is a long-awaited first spadtag for more capacity and part of solving railway problems here and now. The Moderates want to continue maintaining and expanding Swedish railways for fast and efficient train traffic. Unlike the government, we also see that there are points with a functioning road network around our country. The government increases the funding for railway maintenance by 47 per cent, while the funding for road maintenance is increased by 7 per cent. The Director General of the Finnish Transport Agency warns that the government's low funding leads to poorer roads in some parts of the country. This means lost time and higher costs for rural entrepreneurs, but also difficulties in bringing together everyday life for families who do not have walking distance between their parents' jobs and their children's preschools. The assessment that parts of the road network will fail and lag behind is serious and does not rhyme with the zero vision. This cannot be accepted by the Moderates. Therefore, in the national plan we invest SEK 6 billion more than the government on road maintenance for the whole of Sweden to live. It also includes an investment in our roads for heavier trucks, so that fewer trucks are needed to transport the same amount of goods, with lower emissions and increased competitiveness for not least our forest industry. Roads are needed for Sweden to stick together, but the fuel in the tank must be replaced. There is broad agreement in Parliament on reducing emissions from the transport sector. Unfortunately, however, the government works more with bans than with technology development and fuel change. The ruling against the government's environmental policy has been harsh. The environmental party's opinion figures are failing while emissions are rising again. The government's kilometre tax and air travel tax are direct punitive taxes at a distance rather than on emissions. But technology is progressing at a furious pace, and we have to accept it. Extended super-environmental car premium, the introduction of a bonus – malus system and a gradual reduction obligation requiring the inclusion of biofuels are some examples of measures to reduce emissions without reducing accessibility. Automation and digitalisation are also driving the development of new innovations. Here a continued development of IT infrastructure is an important part. We also need regulatory and legislative changes for more shipping, cycling, car pools and sharing economy for a changed travel and better use of our resources. This is how we pursue a result-oriented and effective environmental policy without putting away the bones of people and businesses. Madam President, I would like A majority in the Swedish Parliament has called for an aviation strategy to improve the competitiveness of aviation. Consider our surprise when we received back a document containing a flight tax, with the direct opposite result. A majority in the committee therefore rejects the government's aviation strategy here today and does not believe that the issue is closed. The airline tax is detrimental to the accessibility of our country. It is so harmful that the government at the same time proposes subsidies to certain airports, but only to airports in Norrland and Gotland. I wonder: What happened to the rest of Sweden? Does the government not think that the flight is needed there? The logic of taking money and then giving money is as typically Social Democratic as it is difficult to understand. The marginal climate benefit of the aviation tax – according to the expertise – shows that the government's policy is once again firing alongside the target. Instead, the Moderates want to investigate differentiated take-off and landing charges based on fuel and a reduction obligation requiring the incorporation of biofuels into the aircraft tank – all to stimulate the good. In TV4's Partisan leadership, Minister Isabella Lövin said that we must travel less in the future. The Moderates don't want people to travel less. We want emissions to be lower. Madam President, I would like In order to ensure that taxpayers receive as much infrastructure as possible from each invested crown, the Moderates want to set up an independent Transport Policy Council, like the Fiscal Council, to review and evaluate the policy. We see that planning processes are lengthy and that cost estimates often turn out to be wrong, with costs and delays as a result. There is a need for closer scrutiny and a second opinion on both government and policy decisions so that taxpayers get value for their money. Good governance is also important for confidence in our authorities to remain strong. Therefore, the events of the last year in several transport authorities are very serious. This summer the IT leak was revealed at the Transport Agency, one of the greatest security scandals of modern times, which is ultimately a matter of national and individual security. In the autumn corruption and suspected criminal offences were revealed within the Swedish Transport Administration. Events point to problems with lack of routines and responsibilities. Both the security scandal at the Swedish Transport Agency and the corruption crimes within the Swedish Transport Administration raise deep concern. The government must be able to ensure that criminal offences are not committed on our authorities and that tax money goes to the right things. Otherwise, we risk something as serious as people losing faith in our authorities and public Sweden. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to return to the importance of keeping two thoughts in mind. We are facing major challenges in the field of transport. But if we can put hopelessness ahead of hopelessness and create solutions instead of just seeing problems, I can see brightly about the future of Swedish transport and Swedish infrastructure. During the alliance government, we were pleased to see how emissions decreased at the same time as growth increased. It is a wise, coherent policy. Through a robust railway to rely on and more of shipping and cycling as well as technology development and fuel change, we can create sustainability through growth and growth through sustainability. This is how we create a long-term route for a stronger Sweden.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-394	Madam President, I would like Speaking of having two thoughts at the same time, Sweden's transport policy has six milestones, so I would recommend Jessica Rosencrantz to expand the number of tanks. I do not remember that the Moderates opposed, had other suggestions or reserved themselves when we in Parliament decided on the overall transport policy objective and the sub-objectives included in it. That's why I have a question for Jessica Rosencrantz. It relates to the fact that you want to increase the speed of motorways to 130 while at the same time you want to introduce a speed limit of 250 on the railways. As far as the two proposals are concerned, will this contribute to a more equal transport system? Will it help to increase accessibility in Sweden? Is it the intention to drive a car instead of travelling by train between Sweden's three largest cities? Will this help to increase regional development? Will this help to increase road safety? Will this help to reduce the environmental impact? There are therefore several aspects to transport, and I believe that we in the Committee on Transport are endeavouring to try to deal with them all. We agreed on the case. I wonder, then, about making it faster on motorways and limiting rail traffic. I'd like to hear what the Moderates think. How does it get better? I have not heard any of Sweden's municipalities say: Yes, we abstain from the railways. Instead, we want to develop our region with more motorways.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-398	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Svensson Smith, for the question. Yes, unlike the government, we in the Moderates want to develop all our traffic teams. We see how government policy leads to the need to reduce the speed of roads around our country because maintenance is not enough. That is what I hear my municipal colleagues are worried about: that you can no longer even have the standard that you have been used to, not least on the various rural roads. I am in favour of reviewing different speed limits both in our cities and on our motorways. The speed we have on the roads must be determined by what the roads are capable of and what is needed to ensure good road safety. What possible studies of future speeds will land in – it may be that we want to reduce speeds in cities or that we want to increase speeds on certain motorways and major roads – the future will tell. But I do not think that we should lock ourselves in at that speed discussion, but make sure that we can get as good access as possible for people. When it comes to trains, I want fast trains as much as Karin Svensson Smith, but it is also important to be able to secure responsible funding. Now I hear that this government has begun to change how to define fast trains. Suddenly 250 kilometers per hour is also fast, according to the Swedish Transport Administration. That's what I'm signing up to-- these are fast trains, faster than many others on the railroad today. But the crucial thing for me is not actually 320 or 250 kilometers per hour. The crucial thing if we are to expand Swedish rail is that we do it in a responsible way that gives us value for money in the near future so that we do not run the risk of ending up in a situation where we gradually expand the railway and have a complete system somewhere around 2095. I do not believe that people who freeze on platforms today accept that.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-404	Madam President, I would like I would recommend Jessica Rosencrantz to review the referrals on the draft national plan. There is overwhelming support for concentrating on expanding the railways, building new modern main roads and borrowing for people to have access to trains in the near future. Jessica Rosencrantz said the Moderates are in favor of technology. Then I wonder: how does it go with you wanting to use the technology of the last century in the construction of railways? Nowhere in the world where you build rail for these distances you say that the speed should be max 250 or that you should wait until 2095 to make train traffic to be trusted. In fact, I think that Sweden's travellers want it better. I also wonder whether this is to have a maximum speed of 250 kilometres per hour, as you have said with regard to the railways. Should it be transferred to other areas? When you invest in cars, phones or computers, should you use the technology of the last century? Is that the Moderate vision? The Red-Green Government is committed to Sweden being at the forefront industrially and environmentally. Then, of course, you should use the technology that exists and works and that has made France, Japan, Spain and many other countries have access to convenient train traffic that can be a reasonable alternative to aircraft and car. I think people around Sweden are waiting to get more accessibility and faster and more reliable trains. That's what this government stands for.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-408	Madam President, I would like I have two comments to make. First of all, we can agree that, regardless of whether we are talking about 320 or 250 kilometres per hour, both technologies are last century's technology. There are quite a few countries around Europe and the rest of the world that have had high-speed trains for decades. That doesn't mean it's wrong. But let's not say it's the latest technology, because it's none of these two cases. The technology developers out there are talking about completely different things. My second comment is that we agree that we want to expand Swedish railways. But do not address the questions about where the money is or what speed the trains should go in to me, Karin Svensson Smith. Ask your colleague the Minister for Infrastructure, who sits over there. So far, I have not heard an answer from the government about how to fund or how to build. After all, it is the government that has the national plan. I would like it to be the Parliament that decides on it. But now it's not. It's the government. There are many of us who wonder why it is so quiet. If it is so easy to borrow 200 or 300 billion or whatever it may end up as Karin Svensson Smith says, why doesn't the government say so? From the Moderates' side, we want to invest in Swedish railways and expand Swedish railways. However, this must be done in a responsible format in which taxpayers are exchanged for money in the near future and we do not expose taxpayers to the risk that we will then stand there with loans of 200 billion that we cannot repay or the risk that these investments will crowd out other important investments. This is the dialogue I have with my colleagues around the country. Many people want railway expansion, but above all they want it here and now – and they want a lot more too. Then we must be able to keep two thoughts in our heads at the same time.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-415	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have a bigger investment than the government in Category 22, and the majority of the Swedish Parliament made a different assessment than the Swedish Democrats in the budget vote. We therefore refrain from taking part in the decision on appropriations for Category 22 and refer to our specific opinion. Our committee is probably the only committee that concerns every citizen on a daily basis – everything from conversations and how we get to school, kindergarten and work, to how the goods come to the shops and how we take them home. It is an impossible task to please everyone, especially since we also deal with postal matters. But we're doing what we can to get the world's best infrastructure. This is our task, and it is a major challenge – from north to south and from east to west. What we often hear about are problems that we try to solve. Madam President, I would like There are a lot of things you want to talk about in the area of infrastructure. I intend to touch on road safety a little bit and shipping quite a lot. I would like to begin by congratulating the Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth for banning hand-held mobile phones when driving a car – something we have been driving since 2010, when Tony Wiklander entered Parliament. This is a great first step to reach Zerovision 2.0. I was told in committee that the bicycle industry is pushing for beyond zero, so that we should go even further. But there is much more to be done. One example is cable racks, which are completely lethal for motorcyclists among others. Often they are on two-plus-one roads, where we know motorists find it difficult to drive in. They often slow down speed when entering the narrow segment. Then imagine that they meet a mopedist or cyclist. There's plenty to do here. There is also something that we have been talking about for a long time, namely vision and glasses. We all know that at the age of 18 many people take car driving licences, and then there will be no more visual examinations until they are no longer driving. The vision gradually deteriorates over time. I notice it myself– I'm just over 40 and notice that my eyesight is beginning to deteriorate. It is also time for me to get glasses or at least examine my vision. Another major problem is black driving schools. When it comes to the condition of supervisors, we are pushing Swedish democrats on to try to bring down the amount of permits from 15 to close to 5. It is unreasonable to have 15 pupils over a five-year period as a privateist. There is a risk that many of the trainees will be able to take driving licences due to the somewhat simplified driving procedures – and these road users will meet us on streets and roads. When it comes to cycling, we know that the number of cyclists is constantly increasing. It is an easy and easy way to get through. What should we do to reduce the number of accidents? There is an enormous amount of work to be done. What we heard in committee the other day is that wearing a helmet reduces the risk of accidents, especially fatal accidents. There are many new rules in this area, such as for bicycle crossings, bicycle passages and how to behave at crossing points. Information on this needs to be disseminated. I know it is up to every motorist to bring this in, but unfortunately the information does not come out enough. Perhaps we should focus on clarifying this in schools. When I was in Norway I got to see a very funny thing when we went through a tunnel. The tunnel was completely dark, but just outside there was a high pole with a large button on it that the cyclists could strike at speed. Then began a big sign flashing to alert the motorists to cyclists in the tunnel. There's a lot you can do. Madam President, I would like Now I was going to talk about something that is very close to my heart: shipping. It is a nutrition that has long been outside the spotlight and more or less has always been taken for granted. Last Monday I had the pleasure of going to Donsö, which is a lovely island in Gothenburg where there are quite a few ship owners. We witnessed the flagging of new Swedish ships – a great joy. On site there were MPs, enthusiastic shipowners and the Minister for Infrastructure, who arrived late due to technical problems with the train. The minister came with the sun in his back and also celebrated his birthday with us. The shipping industry has begun to see the light and hopes to bring in even more Swedish flagged ships, and there is a great pride among our Swedish shipowners in sailing under the Swedish flag instead of foreign. Having Swedish flagged ships provides jobs and internships. It is important that we in the Swedish Parliament work hard to get more shipping companies to want and be able to afford to flag their ships, because we know that a ship at sea can generate four five jobs in the country. We Swedish democrats looked very brightly at the government's investment in inland waterways and the introduction of tonnage tax. At last, the Swedish shipping industry would become more competitive. Freight carried by rail would now have another opportunity to reach the consumer with an environmentally friendly and competitive mode of transport. We were just waiting for the regulations for inland waterways to settle. It is about the locks in the canals and also about landslide securing, so that the waterways are kept open. We also have other problems that we will come back to. But say the joy that lasts forever. The Swedish Maritime Administration's fee increases came as a sinker. The general increase in the fairway of 9 per cent and the pilot fee increase of 5 per cent will burden the industry with hundreds of millions of SEK each year from 2018. Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats cannot understand how to promote the move of goods from rail to shipping if you raise the cost of shipping further. It rhymes badly in our ears. I received an example from Thun companies, which make three calls in one month in Lake Vänern. They get a cost increase of 157 percent – 157! And there are even higher numbers, which I have in my papers here. It's not 9 percent, it's 157. The Swedish Maritime Administration is a business that has a much too large suit, we think. Those with whom I have spoken and who work in shipping have the feeling that the Swedish Maritime Administration is working to manage its own budget instead of promoting shipping. We Swedish democrats listen to our colleagues the maritime people and know that it is important to have a functioning Swedish shipping. Through our budget, we want to invest 1 billion in reducing the cost of shipping, in the form of reduced fees on fairways and pilotage fees. I was asked if this could not be seen as artificial breathing? Yes, you might think so, but it is a first step from us Swedish democrats to show that we are doing what we can to ensure that the shipping industry dares to invest. But we have other thoughts. Our idea is to redo the Swedish Maritime Administration and reduce it in the future. They should do what they do best: promote shipping, not have a lot of other tasks. Many of the tasks of the Swedish Maritime Administration could be added, for example, to the Swedish Armed Forces. Seaports have told us that they are ready to start new shipping routes where they can carry goods along the coasts. They're just waiting for an okay and the cost is reasonable. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say that those of us who were at Donsö brought us a list of the shipowners. Among the wishes, one could see that they wanted some adjustments to the tonnage tax, which of course can be discussed, so that more vessels can take advantage of this. They pointed out, of course, that the Swedish Maritime Administration's fees are very burdensome and that they want long-term rules. They called on all parties to discuss and agree on this. With this, Madam President, I would like to say that we Swedish democrats have an open door, and we have always had it. The parties in the Alliance and the government are very welcome to talk with us, so we will certainly be able to find good solutions for the future.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-441	Madam President, I would like I note that Jimmy Ståhl has now explained how the Swedish Democrats want to extend the framework to the expenditure area Communications by 2 billion. How are you gonna finance it, Jimmy Ståhl?
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-442	Madam President, I would like Yes, Pia Nilsson, we have received the funding throughout the budget. We have party discussions, which I suppose they also have in the government. We Swedish democrats think in principle that the government has a massive and mastodontic budget for Category 22 Communications. We see that there is a lack of money in maritime transport. This year, for example, we have added an additional 1 billion to Maintaining the State's transport infrastructure. As far as the budget is concerned, Pia Nilsson knows that we are saving a little differently. Unlike Pia Nilsson, we have chosen to reduce, for example, the urban environment agreements. As far as the urban environment agreements are concerned, we know that there are 141 cities in which SEK 1 billion has been allocated. We calculated that if each city is to get its share of the cake it will be about 7 million per city. This means about 2 kilometres of cycle path per city. Then we reasoned with Swedish democrats that it is better that we put this on shipping, which is a very environmentally sound industry and which will also generate a huge number of jobs in the future.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-446	Madam President, I would like Jimmy Ståhl! I think we should sort this out with plus and minus. In your budget, as you say, you are taking 1 billion away from the budget Development of State transport infrastructure, that is, among other things, urban development agreements and what lies there. This is according to the Swedish Democrats' budget. You add this to the maintenance of the state's transport infrastructure, that is to say, maintenance. But then there are two new funds totalling 2 billion: Market pool and Grants to abolish the Swedish Maritime Administration's fee financing. It is clear that these 2 billion are linked to the rest of the budget, and then my question is: will you remove smaller grades in primary school, which are estimated at 2.3 billion? Or do you remove higher teachers' salaries or some of them, which are in your budget of over 4 billion? Or is it every third environmental grant you're going to take away? Is it the 13 – 14 billion in state grants to municipalities and county councils that you should remove and that makes it worse school, health care and care? Is that how you're going to finance a market pot and more money for shipping? What else is there? Is this a question of increased support for the municipalities, because you are removing the start-up grants to integrate our newly arrived friends? Tell me, Jimmy Ståhl, how n i is going to finance 2 billion! Is it by impairing welfare in Sweden?
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-449	Madam President, I would like What we Swedish democrats want to do is strengthen Swedish citizenship and the benefits that you should have if you are a Swedish citizen. We pay quite a lot of tax, and then we shall be able to benefit from these benefits. Pia Nilsson's party is in government and runs the country. Then you can ask why they are severely deteriorating for those with LSS and why they are spending enormous resources on health care for people who are not even entitled to stay in the country. Why does Pia Nilsson's party prioritise agreeing with the Green Party to spend money on giving people who do not have the right to reside in the country, and who will be expelled, the right to go to school? These are hypothetical questions. What I really want to talk about is traffic policy. But we make different priorities. We want to strengthen Swedish citizenship. We want to strengthen transport policy. The other committees are talking about these very savings and why they are being made. But, Pia Nilsson, we don't want to impair. We are pursuing our policy in a slightly different way.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-453	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that Minister Eneroth is in the Chamber today when we discuss the part of the budget dealing with communication. It's honoring and good. We haven't been spoiled with that. Madam President, I would like A well-functioning transport infrastructure – communications, people's opportunities to travel, move and move goods – is in fact a prerequisite for living, living and working throughout the country. The functioning of the freight transport services of companies is important for the existence, availability and spread of entrepreneurship and work throughout the country. Technology development, efficiency, digitalisation, regulatory simplification of public authorities and a shift to increasingly bio-based fuels – the green carbon atoms – mean that there is still good and increasing communications for people and for companies' goods throughout the country and in other countries without increasing environmental and climate impact, but on the contrary decreasing. The Center Party operates in the Swedish parliament and in national politics to ensure that Sweden achieves the goal of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet. The goal is for transport work over time to take place without climate impact. In this work, state policy on investment in transport infrastructure has an important role to play. Madam President, I would like Right now, after just over three years of a cooperative government of social democrats and environmentalists, we are seeing emissions increase. It's tragic to see. In the work on transport infrastructure, the Center Party prioritises several things. We prioritise increased and much more efficient maintenance of the Swedish railways and increased and accelerated new investments in transport infrastructure to build up gaps that hinder growth. We, as a party, are prepared to do so by means of alternative financial solutions, that is to say, which are alternative to financing directly over the appropriations. We prioritise further investments in IT and broadband deployment – the fifth mode of transport. Since the Center Party is committed to the development of the whole country, it is essential that the resources invested in roads, railways and so on are guaranteed to benefit the whole country. The Center Party wants a well-developed infrastructure that connects Sweden and thus provides the right conditions for more jobs and companies throughout the country. Today, the capacity of the railways is not enough. The system has become very sensitive to interference. The end result is a low reliability and a decreasing confidence in the railways as a mode of transport, which does not provide the conditions for growth throughout the country. The country is being split. The Center Party therefore has a policy of more capacity, greater accessibility and a regained confidence in the Swedish rail system. This means that we are in favour of more capacity in the form of new main lines and railways with modern technology, what we in this House call high-speed railways. We prioritise increased and forward-looking investments in the Swedish transport infrastructure, and we are open to making it possible in a responsible way by using alternative financing solutions, in addition to the traditional funding funding, exactly according to the mandate given by both this government and the previous government, i.e. the Swedish negotiation. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish railway is heavily strained, and it is in some places worn out. The Center Party therefore wants – compared to the government – to prioritise increased maintenance of the railways. That is why we are proposing a rail lift for punctuality and operational safety. In order for this rail lift to benefit the whole country, the Center Party wants to earmark significant resources for increased maintenance also of local and regional low-traffic routes. In this context, small amounts and small lanes are involved. But where these small lanes are located, they are often of crucial importance for people's jobs, the survival of companies and the growth of that particular area. Mr President, I would like to The country's most extensive road network, in terms of extent and road length, are road communities – the individual roads. Today, Friday 8 December, millions of people start and stop travelling to and from work, to and from school and to and from leisure activities on a road trip. The Centre Party has the habit of highlighting road confluencies, the individual roads, as an important part of the national transport infrastructure and as a completely basic prerequisite for the whole country to live. Do not be led to believe that this is about some kind of nostalgia. It is bloody serious for the road confluences in northern Sweden that have just been severely squeezed after the Swedish Transport Administration has changed the procedures for snow clearance. It is bloody serious for the road confluences that form the way out to industry – forest industry, construction and other – and are expected to be equipped for a higher bearing class, BK4. Of course, this reform and resources for it must also cover the largest part of the Swedish road network, the thousands of most capillary miles in the Swedish road system – road cooperation. The Center Party and the alliance parties note that in this budget the government announces two tax proposals that are directly detrimental to the country's growth. This is, on the one hand, a kilometre tax that taxes road transport and distance, and, on the other hand, a tax on air travel. Aviation tax is justified for climate reasons, but the climate effect of this tax at a distance is – even according to the investigators themselves – very limited. It is almost incomprehensible that the government, like the Center Party and others, is not proposing greater involvement of biofuels in aviation fuel. In addition, there are more measures. The airline tax has been snuck into this draft budget and is intended to enter into force from 1 April 2018. Some completely incomprehensible lines of the budget describe how the effect of the budget is to be mitigated in northern Sweden. The Kilometer tax was temporarily stopped thanks to powerful opinion work. It was stopped just before the investigation was to be presented in the spring, but internally at the Government Office the work is rolling on and something – who knows what – will be presented in June next year. Madam President, I would like Mr Nilsson from the Social Democrats mentioned the government's IT strategy. It's beautifully written, and in large pieces, the Center Party, as we see it, is behind it. But reality is something else. We are now being reached daily for warning calls from the village teams and companies who spend their time and money rolling out fiber in Sweden. We are greeted with warning calls as to how the state's own tough administration of the necessary permits to put fibre along the roads makes the work drag out in such a way that tens of thousands of household connections are at risk. Moreover, due to the delays, there is a risk of being reimbursable for the poor state subsidies granted by the same State. We all know that the digital infrastructure is essential for working, living and living throughout the country. In order for the digitalisation of the whole of Sweden to take further speed, the expansion of fibre and other modern communication technologies is required throughout the country. The Center Party therefore proposes that additional funds be allocated to this under the rural development programme. But in addition to more resources in the form of money, the Minister of Infrastructure must of course ensure that his authority the Finnish Transport Administration is raping with the work of granting permission to dig along the roads without unnecessary waste of time. Madam President, I would like I would like to endorse the Centre Party's reservation No 5 in this report.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-473	Madam President, I would like I would like to make a few points that Anders Åkesson briefly mentioned in his speech. Anders Åkesson beats the Center Party's so-called maintenance lift when it comes to the railway. This feels a little strange, because while spending more money on maintenance – and we think it's good that the Center Party also wakes up – we don't want to improve maintenance further by introducing Ertms, that is, the new signalling system. You say no to that and you push forward in time. At the same time, we know that such a system would really lead to fewer delays. This is shown by the evaluations made by the Finnish Transport Agency of the four routes currently operated by Ertms. I would like you to clarify this a little bit, Anders Åkesson. One cannot say, on the one hand, that you stand up for a maintenance lift by adding more money and, on the other hand, removing the possibility by pushing the new signal system into the future – and not talking about how you intend to finance the present, which is not free. Then there is public transport in rural areas. Since 2016, the government has invested SEK 848 million in public transport and in improving rural roads. Anders Åkesson has always said no to these initiatives. What happened? I don't recognize Anders Åkesson, who is usually a wise man. What kind of lapsus are you doing here, Anders, when you say no to investments in rural areas? Explain it to me!
i-6YjdxYeM1AUrjm1dPoaTHQ	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the opportunity and for the epithete of wisdom, Pia Nilsson! The railway lift, as the Center Party calls it, means that we spend considerably more resources on real maintenance, operation and trimming of the Swedish rail system. The money comes not from any banknote press but from the fact that we instead choose to pause the introduction of the new Ertms signalling system. We are doing this after listening to the railway industry, Madam President. We have listened to train operators and looked at examples from Denmark and Europe, and it is stated in a very clear language that Ertms instead of ATC – we do not go into what the abbreviations mean – is a change of the nervous system in the Swedish railway body and that it does not give more capacity. On the contrary, Madam President, there is a risk of reducing capacity. There are those who have described it this way: Changing signalling systems on the Southern Main Line, the busiest part of the Swedish rail system, instead of equipping it properly, would be like experimenting by changing the nervous system on a dying one. It's a bad experiment. It is better to make sure that the patient is alive and healthy before experimenting with something that today, with the versions we have, actually does not provide more capacity. In addition, Madam President, the proposal for a change of signal systems that has been in the air dramatically increases the costs of operators operating on Swedish railways. These are very high on-board costs for which, unfortunately, they do not receive any new capacity. They need capacity. Swedish people and Swedish companies need capacity – not a new nervous system that does not provide more capacity.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-481	Madam President, I would like In his last post, Anders Åkesson will have to return to the resistance to expanding the countryside when it comes to public transport and roads. How long should you pause the introduction of the new signalling system, Anders Åkesson? It's not free. If you wait three years, it will cost 2 billion, and we do not really see in the Center's draft budget that this reinforcement exists. It's not free to keep this waiting. As far as Denmark is concerned, it is more complex than that. It is the entire electrification of a very old infrastructure – it is older than Sweden – that makes a mess of it, so it cannot be said that the problems in Denmark are solely due to Ertms. The fact that electrification has messed up affects the introduction of the new signalling system. Anders Åkesson further says that it can even be reduced capacity. It is probably a speculation and a conclusion that Anders Åkesson has to stand for. The Finnish Transport Agency, which is the responsible authority, says otherwise. There it is clearly stated that the delay minutes are reduced by at least two thirds, and at best even more. It's quite a considerable amount of delay minutes we can save. There is no proper calculation, but we know that the delays today are estimated at EUR 5 billion per year. This must also be taken into account when we talk about postponing the introduction of a signalling system that can reduce the delay time by two thirds. I think it is essential that Anders Åkesson and those who listen to the line shift take this on board.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-485	Madam President, I would like I am a great promoter of new technology and technology – a huge promoter. Both Pia Nilsson and I have heard from the Transport Committee what enormous capacity would be won only we changed signal systems. But when I meet operators – both those owned by the state and those who challenge the two state companies, Green Cargo and SJ – they express a united and deep concern about reduced accessibility and major introduction problems if we change signal systems now, Madam President. The Center Party has chosen the strategy of maintaining the signal system we have, which is world-class in terms of security, because it is above all security that we are looking for. We should use the money to make the basic – poorly functioning gears, tracks, power supply etcetera – work before we trixate with switching signal systems. Yes, Madam President, we in the Center Party are deeply sceptical about the government's so-called rural investment in rail. When we went in and checked where these rural millions went, we saw that they certainly ended up in Hästveda and elsewhere, and that sounds rural and idyllic. But they ended up on the main railway, Madam President. They did not end up on Tjustbanan, Stångedalsbanan or the smaller tracks that are in Pia Nilsson's constituency and that I do not know the name of – the constituency I know the name of, but I do not know what the banners are! It was not about that fine-meshed and for the individual industry quite important part of the system. For this reason, we are deeply sceptical about what the government calls rural investment. Instead, we want to earmark a considerable part of our maintenance lift, the rail lift, precisely to the low-traffic parts, so that we ensure that is where it ends up.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-490	Madam President, I would like The Left Party supports the proposal in this budget report. We see that important steps have been taken to reduce the gaps and to rebuild Sweden. Unlike what the SD has voted for when they have supported bourgeois budgets in various rounds, we see that with this budget we are strengthening all citizens. The little man is strengthened. We build society on the basis that everyone should be well even if they get sick and feel bad, whether it's a small baby or older people in a retirement home. We should all be sure that everyone is taken care of, and in this budget we are taking important steps towards this. We are also pleased that railway maintenance is being strengthened. If we're going to change, we need to strengthen maintenance so that people can trust the railroad. I would like to mention a figure that I think no one should forget: 10 billion. This is not an entirely robust figure, but that is what the Capacity Investigation has said is needed for the entire plant. The Left Party has pushed for us to cross that bar to railway maintenance, because we cannot have under-funded railway maintenance. It has been around 8 billion or less for a long time. Talking about double maintenance and air figures here and there doesn't work, but we have to start from reality when we're working. We have to start from the ground perspective. What's going on on the ground? How do things really work? What resources are needed to meet the needs effectively? Air figures do not hold– citizens see this through. It creates populism. It creates xenophobia. It creates a faulty Sweden. We have to start from real figures, so never forget 10 billion for railway maintenance! We will need more because we need to recover what we have forsook. It will take a while to catch up now that we have this money, because we do not have entrepreneurs and machines to get started as fast as we want. But now the money is there, and it is very important that politics works in this way in the future – real figures to meet real needs. It is important that we develop policies even more in the future to save the climate. The Parliament has decided on an overall objective for transport policy and on two equal sub-objectives: the functional objective of accessibility and the objective of safety, environment and health. It is about us meeting both the whole of Sweden when it comes to transport and achieving environmental and climate objectives. It is positive that the historical link between economic development and the development of domestic freight transport has been broken, so that we can achieve economic development without going against climate objectives and the ambition of resource efficiency. It is extremely important that we build such a strategy in order to have an economy compatible with the resource management we have to take into account within the boundaries of the planet. However, freight transport is still under-internalised, which means that they do not pay for their external costs, and they do not pay for environmental costs. This is serious. That is why we need to invest more in the most resource-efficient modes of transport, namely rail and shipping. It's urgent. It's a terrible hurry. We must be aware that we are now at a stage when nature is no longer buffering. In this situation, nature emits greenhouse gases. We have methane in the atmosphere, and according to what I heard when I last spoke to people who had had contact with different scientists, we do not know whether it comes from the tundra or the oceans. We need to have the important insight that after the summer we have exceeded a threshold – now nature is releasing its own greenhouse gases. At the same time, we have extremely strong weather phenomena around the planet, which we are not used to seeing. These are quite problematic to have continued if we are to maintain a civilisation and if we are to maintain infrastructure. That is why we must quickly bring CO2 into the atmosphere. We also need to bind carbon from the atmosphere. We need to have increased choline binding throughout our biosphere and in the ground. There are new technologies for this, which we in the Left Party return to after our congress, as we take a position on how to deal with this. We must pull the emergency brake on the transport sector. We need to think about transport efficiency. Then there is a lot of public transport and railway. This is also supported by the FFF investigation. We need to plan transport-efficiently so that we do not get induced traffic. What we have seen in recent years is that emissions are increasing – or not decreasing at the same rate – despite increased energy efficiency in the transport sector. This is because you drive more and travel more, which is induced traffic. The more roads we have, the more cars on the roads and the more emissions, even if we work with energy efficiency. This is where public transport and the railways – and also shipping – come in. We have to be smart. We must use the most energy efficient. We should not waste either metals or fossil energy or increase the dimensions of the transport sector. Instead, we should be smart and wise to reach the climate targets and be able to pull the emergency brake, which I think we all want to do, even if we have slightly different views on how to do it. The capacity of the rail network increased in 2016. This is a good thing, and it is a consequence of the expansion from single track to double track and of the congestion of the tracks being reduced. Punctuality is now better for passenger trains than for freight trains, but the problems are still great. One thing to note is that the aircraft has less punctuality than the railway. There is little talk of this, but it is important to remember. At the same time, of course, we want to improve the punctuality of the railways – it is extremely important that people can rely on the sustainable means of transport that we want them to use. As travel increases, we also need to increase capacity. We need to reduce emissions from the entire transport sector, and we need to reduce emissions also in the aviation market. The aircraft emits an enormous amount per kilometre compared to all other modes of transport. Only a trip to Thailand can take up a whole person's carbon dioxide budget for a year. It's not okay. We can't go on like this. The Left Party sees many benefits from the aviation strategy developed by the government, but our goal is to reduce air travel. We want to extend the railway with night rail traffic to Europe, and we want to extend night rail traffic to Norrland. We are very happy that we have now got through night train traffic to Jämtland every day. It is very central for you to be able to commute to the whole of Norrland, because it is common to sleep up to Östersund and then with other means of transport to Norrland's different parts. This is extremely central to strengthening the possibilities of commuting by rail. We have now achieved this together, which we are very happy about. It was also part of the aviation tax discussion not only to increase air tax, which is an important signal to the population about which means of transport are sustainable, but also to invest in the carrots, on what makes it easy to do the right thing. In the severe climate situation we are, I no longer believe in the whips, not before the carrots. At this point, we need to bring the whole population with us. We need to bring the haulage industry, those living in the countryside and those who are totally dependent on their car. Every person in Sweden should feel that the Riksdag makes decisions that make it easy to do the right thing, which gives carrots when you do the right thing. That is why we need to expand the railways and that is why we need night rail traffic to Norrland and down to Europe. It should be easy and easy to do the right thing. Another issue is road traffic. Unfortunately, there are quite a lot of traffic accidents with wild animals today. 66 000 of cloven-hoofed game were reported in 2106. For this reason, we should see an increased effort on ecoducts and wildlife crossings in order to avoid these accidents. It is also a way of protecting ecosystems and the functions of ecosystems, which will be affected by climate change. It is important that ecosystems are able to buffer for the changes we see. The infrastructure network has a large fragmentation of the impact on ecosystems, which is why we need to rethink here and work with nature. This is becoming increasingly apparent in our society, and we need to strengthen these pieces more and more. Another point raised by the Left Party in the report concerns road maintenance. The Swedish National Audit Office has reported that the gap between city and country has increased. We think it's really unlucky. We have lived in a neo-liberal era where human dignity has not been put at the centre of the economy. We can't go on like this. It creates xenophobia, fear and contempt for people. It creates a high value for people with potential, power and good economy, but it creates inferiority complexes in people who live in rural areas, have poor economies, are sick or unable to make their way in this competitive society. It is extremely destructive and breaks down society. It creates stones and car fires in the suburbs, and it creates followers of IS. In fact, even details such as road maintenance can come into this discussion. We cannot succeed rural roads so that the big roads that go to the big cities can get all the money. Here, too, neoliberalism has made sure that all means have gone to the main lines, and the gaps have increased here too. It's not okay. The Left Party therefore wants to follow the Swedish National Audit Office's proposal to review this and come back with proposals on how to distribute resources as fairly as we did in the 1980s and before. It shouldn't just go where the big cities and the money are. We are building an economy by integrating the entire population, by allowing the whole country to grow and by accepting people into our country that we are putting into work. According to economic theory, we build growth if we are many people who are well, working together and meeting the needs that exist in a resource-efficient and resource-efficient way that takes into account the planetary boundaries. The report raises a reservation on which I would like to support it. It is reservation 4 on our merchant fleet in shipping. We want to further strengthen shipping by giving it an economy that is equal to the other modes of transport, such as rail and road, so that shipping also gets help with infrastructure costs. We have this in our reservation. Otherwise, we are pleased that Parliament has agreed on the tonnage tax and that we now see many ships flying into Sweden again. This is positive, and we can move towards a good labour market in the shipping industry in the long term, which also strengthens equality in Sweden and builds the country together. I also support the committee's proposal.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-524	Madam President, I would like It was interesting to listen to Emma Wallrup's speech. I got the feeling of it all for everyone. Emma Wallrup talks about a gulf between town and country, about riots in the suburbs and street stones flying. What surprised me in Emma Wallrup's speech was the great enthusiasm for shipping and trains, but the Left Party wants to create a lock-in effect for those living in the country by killing flights. The night train is great, but the opportunity to get from upper Norrland down to civilization, big cities and jobs takes the Left Party away. You also want to make things more difficult for people who drive cars. It rhymes badly in my ears. Emma Wallrup says she wants to build high-speed rail and strengthen shipping. My question to Emma Wallrup is: How long will it take to create a good transport from Norrland down to Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö? Today it takes 16 - 18 hours by train. That's what I call a lock-in effect if you take off your flight. If Emma Wallrup has time to answer, how will you finance shipping?
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-528	Madam President, I would like You're asking an important question, Jimmy Ståhl, which I'm really passionate about solving. We have to solve things in real life. We cannot stand here and say fine words, but we must keep an eye on the needs of the population. I believe in building a harmoniously robust economy based on real needs and creating harmonious people who grow up in Sweden and feel confident that we have a system that takes into account the population and politicians who care about the population and not just want to be seen in the media and say fine words to get voters, which unfortunately has been the case a little too much for representative democracy. It's gone a little too far, and we need to back up the band a little bit and get back to democracy and the real conversation with the people. As far as the railways and aviation are concerned, the Left Party, as I also say in our particular opinion, believes that we should reduce flying while at the same time extending the options. I'm not interested in removing the flight possibilities to Norrland until we've expanded the railway. The railway in Norrland is completely undersized. It is terribly unequally distributed in Sweden, and we must correct that. We can do this by strengthening the inland track and all the cross tracks, by building the Norrbotnia Line and by strengthening the entire Norrbotnia Corridor. It is perfectly possible to invest in it. The Left Party and the Green Party wanted to discuss the night trains in connection with the air tax, that we are expanding the alternatives while increasing the price of flights marginally. To be honest, the airline tax is more of a symbol. But it provides resources so that we can expand the alternatives, and that is an important signal to the population. I do not think that we should withdraw airports until we have expanded the railways and good public transport that is efficient and fast. It's about having a land perspective and seeing how people live.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-534	Madam President, I would like It sounds quite reasonable that the flight should remain as long as there are no other solutions. But when I listened to the speech, it sounded very bad. This means simply insulating northern Norrland. We know that it is even too many to get to the railway station and, of course, to the airport. That's where we need alternatives like the car. It is long distances even with goods. We also know that building a railway is extremely costly. Of course, we would have liked to build railways everywhere and have hyperloop speeds, but it will take some time. We know that aviation is under innovation. We also know that aircraft today may not be able to run on electricity fixed precisely during the lifting phase, because it requires so much energy. But today, at least for an hour, it has been possible to operate on electricity. It is very important today that you can transport yourself quite freely and that you promote all forms of traffic. We know that Sweden's negotiations are ongoing and that they are trying to get municipalities to sign agreements to build high-speed trains. We Swedish democrats have said no. We are very positive that the Swedish Transport Administration has a speed of 250 kilometres per hour. Then you'll build a railroad with reason. You build rail at a reasonable cost. We are sure that you could build even cheaper than you do today with other construction technologies. My question to Emma Wallrup is: how long do you think it will take for Norrland to have a satisfactory railway?
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-539	Madam President, I would like I think we should always work reasonably. We're not going to pull in airports in Norrland until the railroad is expanded. However, we should perhaps signal to the population that it can holiday more at home in Sweden and that we give workers such good conditions on their work that they do not have to make the class trip to the Mediterranean because they feel they need to recover because it is so tough in the workplace. How long it will take to expand the railway to Norrland depends entirely on how we will negotiate and prioritise. I'm really tired of the fact that we're just prioritising the big cities. People do not feel well living very many on a narrow area where there is a very strong segregation. We need to welcome many people to Sweden because the world is unfortunately on fire with war, climate change and so on. We will be a grainshed here in many different ways with agricultural land. In the future, there will be even more refugees coming here. Then we must build the whole of Sweden strongly with rail throughout the country and build an economy for everyone. It is very wise to invest in and strengthen the inland and cross tracks, Norrbotniabanan and the entire Norrbotnia corridor. It's a fast way to a lot of railroad. The Left would very much like to see loan financing for this. Then we could do it quickly. We have with us the Swedish Trade and Industry Transport Council, Swedish Export Credit, Sweden's Construction Industries and a wide range of actors who may not usually be in the arena together with the Left Party. In this case, however, it is we, and also several bourgeois parties, who want to see loan financing for railways. This could speed up progress.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-544	Madam President, I would like I support the report in those parts where the Liberals are involved. Otherwise, we have a special opinion on the budget. Madam President, I would like Well-functioning communications and a modern infrastructure are fundamental prerequisites for the development of communities and the establishment and growth of businesses. The flow of goods and services creates growth for Sweden, and trade with other countries strengthens Sweden's position in the global economy. The transport system is thus a cornerstone of the country's development. It is important that infrastructure investments are analysed in the long term and from a holistic perspective. There's a need for system thinking. How do we entertain and sharpen what already exists? What must be built for? What are the transports from A to B? What are the flows from one traffic type to another? And what is the future? How do we finance what is needed? Is the traveler and mobility in the centre? Is it an equal transport system? Are we going, or are we not going? The Liberals' answer is: We think we should continue to be able to travel. Emma Wallrup raised the question of whether or not to travel. I can see that it is not always easy to know if you are doing the right thing. We were recently a delegation from the Transport Committee in Helsinki. Some took the flight, others took the boat. I wanted to know how much CO2 emissions it was from that trip. I could see that the aircraft could account for its emissions, but shipping could not do so. Much more of the measures are needed to enable us to know if we are doing the right thing. Many have dealt with the issue of rural and sparsely populated areas. It is an issue that involves many liberals. Transport policy decisions can have a major impact on the urban area, the small town, the company or the individual entrepreneur in both a positive and a negative sense. The development of city and country is important. Will rural and rural areas be part of the journey into the future? My answer and that of the Liberals is yes. But it requires political decisions that take account of the different circumstances. It is about roads and individual roads. These are major airports and regional airports. It's about the railways and the low-traffic tracks. It is about postal services, other community services and broadband. I note that the government recently submitted its letter on the possibilities of digitalisation. There is the Liberals' answer that it should cover all 2025. What, then, creates digitalization for opportunities in terms of communications? Big. Yesterday I had the pleasure of visiting the Riksdag and listening to a person and his analyses of the future. He started talking about the possibilities of the Internet. A lot of years ago there were ten websites in the world, ten of them globally. But look what happened! Progress is fast. Yesterday he talked about the self-driving vehicles that he himself has been driving with and tested. He talked about drones delivering mail, about ships and aircraft of the future that we have only seen the beginning of and about self-driving craft. He also talked about artificial intelligence that creates and increases road safety so that vehicles take into account children, cyclists, deer and road users in general. He talked about the enormous possibilities that open up when you can call for a car that takes you from A to B, fossil-free of course. Then you can settle wherever you want and develop your business where you want. There is a need for more people like that visitor who, with enormous curiosity, sees opportunities in what technology can achieve. Sometimes we talk about the new technology. On the tracks it may be maglev, hyperloop and much more, but we have to keep up. Madam President, I would like The transport sector must contribute to sustainable development. We are increasingly travelling, which in itself is a positive thing. The world is tied together. It is not the journey itself that should be stopped and hindered. Mobility is good. The focus must be on reducing emissions, rewarding new technologies and finding new fuels. At the same time, road transport accounts for a large proportion of greenhouse gas emissions, although there has been a change. More cars need to be climate-smart. All cars must eventually be. But the car will be needed. It is the only option for some of those living in rural and sparsely populated areas. Public transport must be made easily accessible. Railways must be upgraded to meet national and regional needs. Liberals want to see a rescheduling of the travel allowance which limits it in the regions where there is a functioning public transport system. We give priority to rural public transport, which includes measures to increase safety in connection with stops and platforms. We want to see the emergence of car pools, which can become part of the public transport of the future. It is also about the opportunities of the collaborative economy in terms of the taxi concept. This also applies, of course, to self-driving vehicles. Of course, we also see cycling and rental bikes as part of the journey and new flexible ticketing solutions that make it easy to be a traveller. Therefore, we have proposed to study the possibility of introducing a national mobility plan that would link all the different modes of transport through a digital platform. You're supposed to put the traveler at the centre. We think that we should protect our business community. A major issue surrounding our infrastructure solutions concerns industries and ports. Sweden's roads are important for the whole country to function, and many routes need to be upgraded. The infrastructure for our ports must work. We are allocating a series of millions to make it possible. A typical example is the region where we are – the metropolitan area. Yesterday, the municipalities of Mälardal were heard saying that it was important to see the link with shipping and inland waterways. There are also current examples of the ports in Stockholm County. This is important from a sustainability point of view. Madam President, I would like It is also about cycling. We Liberals want to give priority to cycling and therefore spend a great deal of money on various types of initiatives every year. We note that the government has now proposed a knowledge centre, although only for a few years, which we find interesting. However, we believe that the initiative should be long-term, and therefore we still propose that there should be a national knowledge centre. We believe that the cycling infrastructure should be strengthened and that funds should be set aside for it. We think that we should have a national knowledge centre that is long-term. We also want to bet on the children. We have noted that fewer and fewer children are cycling, and we want to make an effort for more children to want and dare to cycle. We put these bets under a national cycle office. Better infrastructure is needed, and we therefore believe that some of the congestion charges could also be used to improve this, because, as I said, many of the short journeys can be carried out by bicycle. You can also choose to walk. That is why we are somewhat concerned in the Liberals when we note that, with regard to the announcement made to see cycling as a law of its own, the government now believes that the issue is being dealt with. Then my question to the government parties is: why do you not consider cycling to be a law of your own? We in the Liberals believe that this is an important issue, because it would raise the status. This would make it easier to follow up on the available key indicators and to create legislation that will make cycling routes a reality. This is a major shortcoming, and I would like an answer to this question today. As far as shipping is concerned, I would like to return to the environmental benefits of shifting freight from road to rail and shipping. We are concerned about what has happened in this area. It is good that the government wants to review the Swedish Maritime Administration's financing model. Sweden's inland waterways are an important issue. We are also concerned about the locks in Trollhättan and their future, because in practice a non-decision can be a closure decision for the locks after 2030. Everything we want to do and all the proposals we put forward are to be financed. I would like to remind you of the efforts made by Liberals in the previous framework decision, in which, by opening up to alternative funding, to infrastructure charges and to OPS, we have a much larger framework than the government. Our investment was 80 billion and the government was 54 billion. We need to start looking at new solutions, because the needs of the different modes of transport are significant both for urban areas and for rural and sparsely populated areas. The construction of housing now planned is largely based on infrastructure investments being put in place. There are shortcomings in coordination, and we therefore allocate additional funds to the Swedish Transport Administration to increase co-planning. It is important to co-plan tracks, roads and housing in parallel. With regard to broadband investments, the Liberals set aside SEK 100 million more annually to ensure that rural and sparsely populated areas are included in the opportunities for the future. We see what digitalisation means in the design of new services and opportunities. It is about the ability to run a business, to live in the country and to work remotely. That's why it's so important that everyone can be there. Reforms in the postal sector are important to ensure that they are a workable basic service. But what will the postal service of the future look like? We believe that digitalisation is an extremely important part of the solution. We welcome investments in Gotland, for example. While the Liberals are perhaps making a different priority, we welcome the fact that the possibility of linking the mainland and Gotland is being looked at. We believe in the snowmobile trails that need to be upgraded in Norrbotten and other parts of the country. This is also a transport issue which signals that it is an opportunity to use this type of infrastructure as well. As previous speakers have said, we share the criticism that the announcements concerning aviation and the strategy are not being met. Madam President, I would like So I thought I'd turn to thinking a little bit about the future. I think a lot about the children born in 2017. I'm thinking about a little guy named Leyton, nine months old. What did it look like 100 years ago? The first aircraft factory started in Landskrona in 1914, the first airship crossed the Atlantic in 1919, the first transatlantic radio call took place in 1915 and Volvo's first serially manufactured car arrived in 1927. And about a hundred years ago the Malmbanan was electrified, which became the starting point for the railway's continued electrification. Madam President, I would like The world we leave behind, I hope to be better than the one we inherited.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-579	Madam President, I would like I thought first of all about cycling. This is an issue that I know is close to Nina Lundström's heart, and that also applies, of course, to us in the Green Party. It is the smartest, energy-efficient and healthier way to move around. I wonder why the state should regulate how the municipalities should make it possible for more people to cycle. The urban environment agreement's idea is that we here in the Riksdag in Stockholm do not know best when it comes to exactly what is going to happen in Luleå, Lund or Landskrona. It is for the municipal politicians and civil servants there to design together with the inhabitants. The conditions for cycling in Stockholm, Luleå and Lund are very different. That is the essence of the urban environment agreements: you choose what you want to do, and you get co-financing if it is judged to be effective measures. You propose to delete the urban environment agreements and instead put 20 million or something like that in a cabinet here in Stockholm. In what way will it be easier to cycle for the inhabitants of Luleå, Landskrona and Lund, Nina Lundström?
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-582	Madam President, I would like It is an important question how we will both finance and ensure that the regulations enable the construction of new cycle paths. I would like to remind Karin Svensson Smith that we had a completely different solution from the Liberals in terms of infrastructure planning in 2018– 2029. We set aside an extra 1 billion to ensure that there was long-term funding. Urban environmental agreements are a short-term solution. There have been a number of concerns about them. There, I note that as the government chose to reschedule them, because there were no targeted measures for cycling in the past, it will be difficult to follow up what is happening with the funds available. We believe that we should invest in the infrastructure for cycling and the means for this, but cycling should be considered just like all other common modes of transport. I am therefore surprised that even the Green Party obviously no longer supports the idea that cycling should be financed and developed on the same terms as the other modes of transport. My counter-question to Karin Svensson Smith is: Why not have the same thinking for cycling as for all other types of traffic? That would make it long-term, clear, transparent and possible to follow up. I also noted yesterday at the meeting that was here in the region that even regional representatives and municipalities now feel that it would be much better for the money to be spent at state or regional level for the sake of long-term, transparency and clarity. I would like to hear why Karin Svensson Smith does not think that cycling should have equal conditions with other modes of transport.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-587	Madam President, I would like It's a bit different depending on where I'm going to ride my bike – if I'm going to ride a bicycle ten miles in Skåne or inside a city. That's the beauty of it. We respect the fact that the municipalities can afford their land. I don't think it's a good idea to either Nina Lundström or I decide how it should be done in the municipalities. The idea of an urban environment agreement is that you choose, together with the residents, what you want to do, and then you get a state co-financing. Then, of course, we will have money for cycling between cities in the national budget. But I would like to know whether the Liberals do not think that municipal self-government should be maintained anymore in terms of land use. The government assumes that it will continue to have it. I have one more question, Nina Lundström. I noted with interest that you are open to alternative funding, and then I would like to know if it means that you share the Moderates' view that you should have to wait for high-speed trains to 2064 or 2095, as the Finnish Transport Agency believes you need to do if you cannot open up for another funding. Or are you prepared to agree with our view that we cannot wait so long for high-speed trains to be available as an alternative for travel? It is a good point to use the train for local, regional and interregional journeys. But if it is to meet its potential and reduce its climate impact, we cannot wait as long as we need to do with the draft budget that exists now. I understand that you were sceptical about this in the past, but I very much welcome it if you have changed your mind.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-592	Madam President, I would like I note at the outset that Karin Svensson Smith does not want to answer the question as to why cycling should not be regarded as a separate mode of transport. With regard to the investment in high-speed rail, the Liberals make a different assessment. We believe that because there is no long-term funding, it is not a sensible investment. It was stated in the proposal when it was adopted in connection with the infrastructure bill that high-speed lines should be expanded at the pace allowed by the economy. If you cannot travel from point (a) to point (b), it is not a wise investment. In addition, priority must be given to the money needed for other measures. I note that Karin Svensson Smith has no other funding. There are still many questions about how this is to be financed. We believe that building new infrastructure should be done where it is needed, but we should also be able to afford to take care of what already exists. Many efforts need to be made in the country, and we believe that it is not responsible to start building high-speed lines that lack funding and on which we do not know the final price tag.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-595	Madam President, I would like We are debating Category 22 Communications. The Christian Democrats have their own special opinion in favour of the Christian Democrats' draft budget. Madam President, I would like Good communications are a prerequisite for Sweden to be able to develop its wealth, increase employment and strengthen its competitiveness. For a sparsely populated country like Sweden, transport is of particular importance. Our transport policy is based on people being able to live and work throughout the country. A well-developed and efficient transport system of roads, railways, air connections and shipping, as well as fast and robust telecommunications and data communications are an important prerequisite for the future development of Sweden as a whole. Efficient communications and transport are also crucial for companies to remain active even in small towns and for work commuting to and from cities to be possible. Madam President, I would like A well-developed transport system has not only positive effects but also a burden on the environment. The Christian Democrats believe that Sweden must break its dependence on fossil fuels in the transport sector and promote technology development in order to achieve a more sustainable transport system and a fossil-independent transport sector in 2030. More emphasis is needed on electric cars, hybrids, electrified roads, driverless cars, bonus-malus systems and, not least, on ensuring that there are sufficient biofuels. It is very important to continue the transition to electric power in road transport. Therefore, we from the Christian Democrats propose continued support for investments in charging infrastructure for more people to choose electric cars. The Christian Democrats invest SEK 125 million per year during the period 2018 – 2020 on the expansion of the charging infrastructure. Madam President, I would like The cycle needs to be promoted and prioritised as a means of transport. Cycling has both good environmental and climate effects and good health effects. It has been shown that when cycling is given higher priority in urban planning, cycling also increases significantly. In many places today, the traffic environment is not sufficiently adapted for cycling. Too many people drive cars even on short distances, and with increased investments in cycling we can get more people to choose bikes instead of cars. It is also important that municipalities work together to find common solutions to promote cycling and invest more in bike paths, bike paths, parking and not least in maintaining roads, and to focus more on increasing the safety of cyclists and reducing the number of killed and injured cyclists. The Christian Democrats are therefore investing SEK 350 million per year in a new grant to promote cycling and safe cycling infrastructure. The Christian Democrats also propose to set up a study to create the possibility for employers to subsidise bicycle and public transport travel to and from work without it being considered a taxable wage benefit. Our party also proposes that an economic effort be made through non-profit organisations to actively promote cycling among people who are not used to cycling through the dissemination of information in different languages and in other ways. Madam President, I would like In 2014, the alliance government took the initiative for the so-called Swedish construction which now goes under the name of Sweden's negotiation, but to its content it still reflects the original visions in this area. In order to realise the ambitious and costly infrastructure projects within the Swedish negotiation, it is absolutely crucial that funding can be resolved responsibly, so that other important new and maintenance investments are not pushed away and so that alternative financing solutions are not overlooked. The Swedish hearing contains a number of important measures, such as new main rails for high-speed trains between Stockholm and Gothenburg and Stockholm and Malmö, extension of Ostlänken, four track between Uppsala and Stockholm and more. These and other infrastructure investments are necessary to enable Sweden to continue to provide good conditions for communications, passenger transport and freight transport. They play an important role in growth, competitiveness and building housing. Madam President, I would like Stockholm is today one of the few capital cities in Europe that lack a ring road around the city. An eastern connection, from Ropsten in the north to Nacka in the south, is an important effort to reduce vehicle traffic through the central parts of the city. Unfortunately, there is no construction plan on an eastern link in the Swedish Transport Administration's recently presented national plan for the next twelve years, which is regrettable. The Christian Democrats believe that there is a need for political clarity on the part of the government about the importance of the project starting during the planning period. Madam President, I would like The rail system today faces a number of major challenges. Large parts of the railway currently in use were built about 150 years ago and for traffic that was smaller, lighter and slower. The population, number of passengers and freight transport are increasing. That is why we are today in the process of overloading the rail system, which too often suffers delays or stops due to a lack of capacity. The total costs of delays in passenger and freight transport by rail are approximately SEK 6 billion per year. This is not acceptable. The railway therefore needs to be maintained, modernised and expanded to match today's and tomorrow's needs. Travellers, businesses and industry should be able to rely on the railway to function. We therefore want to strengthen the resources, as proposed by the government, by SEK 40 billion for the operation and maintenance of the railway for the period 2018 – 2029. Madam President, I would like The government proposes that railway maintenance be nationalised. That would be unfortunate. Competition through various tenders contributes to lower costs for taxpayers, and resources can be better used. The Christian Democrats propose that railway maintenance continue to be procured in competition. It would be wrong for all railway maintenance to be renationalised. However, we see a need for the Swedish Transport Administration to strengthen its function for authorisation, delivery control, inspection and follow-up of the work carried out. Madam President, I would like A national airline tax, as the government proposes, is harmful to the Swedish economy. Almost all the consultation bodies judge this national aviation tax. They believe that it is harmful and hampers growth. In practice, such a tax becomes a penalty tax on those who are most dependent on flights, and it increases air travel, both domestic and international. With the Christian Democrats rejecting the government's proposal for national air tax, we also say no to the government's compensation for the financial losses caused by the air tax. There is a great risk that a number of regional airports will be closed down. And it will affect people living in rural areas as well as businesses operating in rural areas. National aviation tax has been introduced in other European countries but has been withdrawn because it endangers jobs. The climate threat that the national aviation tax is intended to address is global, and global agreements are needed. Madam President, I would like Swedish shipping is a very important industry for Sweden's development and competitiveness and is of great importance for the Swedish transport system. The transition to a tonnage tax that, after some delays, was finally introduced on 1 January 2017 has been very important. It is an important issue for the Christian Democrats and for Swedish shipping. We can now see the result of this tax reform, which has already contributed to the return of several shipping companies to the Swedish flag. The Christian Democrats believe that both freight and passenger transport in water should be stimulated. Public transport in water can relieve local and regional traffic and reduce congestion and CO2 emissions. We propose that the Swedish Transport Administration should be tasked with collaborating with municipalities and regions to support the expansion of public transport on water. We also believe that Sweden's inland waterways should be given priority when it comes to freight transport. The Maritime Administration, in cooperation with the municipalities concerned, should develop a plan to enable more freight transport via inland waterways. There is a need to review the infrastructure around ports and fairways in order to increase domestic freight transport by sea. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats are proposing stricter rules for the use of drones in protected airspace. We want to investigate a new bridge connection between Helsingborg and Helsingör and a new long-term, secure connection over Södertälje Canal, either a bridge or a tunnel. We set aside funds to reduce staff accidents on railway tracks and increase the safety and safety of streets, stations and travel centres. We are proposing a number of proposals to combat illegal driving schools. We want to allow longer lorries and to allow lorries of 74 tonnes to travel on the roads that are portable, for more efficient and more environmentally friendly lorry transport. We also propose longer freight trains with a length of at least 750 metres, which is standard in many European countries, for more efficient freight transport on Swedish railways. Madam President, I would like We have some sixty other proposals that make both transport and infrastructure more efficient. With this, I thank you for the floor.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-628	Madam President, I would like I noted that Robert Halef talked about the importance of electrified cars and charging infrastructure. The Green Party agrees, of course, that electric cars have the potential, especially in cities, to replace some of the existing exhaust gas transport. However, I wonder why you would like to delete the Climate Tree, Robert Halef? It goes to a very large extent to set up charging infrastructure where people need it to dare to buy an electric car. What restricts sales is that people aren't really sure where they can load it. The climate life goes to a large extent to set up charging poles where people live or in workplaces. What's wrong with that funding? Why do the Christian Democrats want to delete it? Another thing is that you pay tribute to Swedish shipping. I think there are many of us who think it is important. That's why we've been implementing the tonnage tax that you talked about for eight years that you were going to fix. But you didn't. There's a point in thinking about it. What you want to do must be accompanied by measures to get you where you want to go. I want to know why there should be no climate change.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-632	Madam President, I would like We have made some priorities in this budget. We are not raising taxes by 66 billion, as the government parties have done since they came to power and up to today. Only during the budgetary period that we are discussing now are tax increases of at least 40 billion. You impair the elderly and the sick, you reduce the security of society by the fact that there are too few police officers, and you set aside less travel urses. Medical care does not work; you do not get the right medical care in time and so on. We want to redistribute the bag of money that the state has through different priorities. Just picking out a single issue that is close to your heart, Karin Svensson Smith, does not mean on the whole that our policy does not cover all areas. During this term of office, we have been very clear that we are investing 125 million extra on the charging infrastructure – 125 million more than the government annually invests – to stimulate more to buy electric cars when there are enough charging poles around the country. You mentioned the tonnage tax. We have been a warm supporter of it and have pushed for that tax reform. It turned out that some shipping companies went under a foreign flag because they were not equivalent tax situations. It was more expensive to go under the Swedish flag. In short, that's what I can say right now.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-638	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I have noted that you reserved for a tonnage tax before coming to power. Then you spent eight years doing I don't know what. At least now it's done, so we don't have to talk about it much more. I would like to move on to discussing the railways. Robert Halef said that we must modernise the railways, and that is absolutely right. We recently received a courtship from Jönköping County, and it was very interesting. There was strong pressure there that one should now dare to stand for what the alliance government introduced in Almedalen 2014, the construction of Sweden, which is now Sweden's negotiation. The Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board told us that it had now been planned to implement what the previous government and this government claim to want to do. Land has been reserved, waiting for regional development, reduced dependence on oil and the increased development that new main roads would bring. I didn't quite understand, Robert Halef. Is it the case that the Christian Democrats agree to get a railway with train traffic during the era in which we live, or are those who live in Jönköping to wait for modern train traffic until 2095? Then neither you nor I will be left to ride with it.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-642	Madam President, I would like I would just like to point out to Karin Svensson Smith that we from the Christian Democrats have set aside as much funding for railway maintenance during the last parliamentary term as you have had the government power. We're for new main courses. Both the southern and western main railway are needed as much as the four-track railway is needed to Uppsala and the Norrbotnia railway. We are in favour of a high-speed railway being implemented. But you're supposed to ask that question to your government colleagues. We have heard nothing about funding. We do not even know if the government supports the Green Party's proposal of 320 kilometres of speed. The national plan presented by Trafikverket– I think the government has been part of that presentation – advocates 250 kilometres of speed trains. In the coming week, we from the Christian Democrats will be considering whether to proceed with 320 kilometres of high-speed train and how to finance it, whether it should be funding or whether it should be other financing models that will make it possible to expand both the South and the West Main Line. It is important that we build, not for 50 – 100 years, but for 150 – 250 years in the future so that it will well serve both the economy and the country in general. It is a very important decision that we will take, and I hope that the benefits of it will be reaped over the coming centuries. These issues will be considered and decided in due course. It would be interesting to hear the government's view of this, not just of the Green Party. In fact, you're in government.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-648	Madam President, I would like Honourable Members of this House! I must say that it is very interesting to hear the debate. I very much appreciate the commitment that exists to now build more infrastructure. We will invest more in the railways and make sure to strengthen maintenance. It feels good for everyone who is interested in traffic policy to know that we are in a position where we can afford and do this. This was not the case before. We leave behind a period of underinvestment. Since the former and the former government chose to give priority to tax cuts instead of those that build the country strongly, there were not resources to make large investments, but other priorities. We are now paying this price as a result of a large maintenance mountain in the case of the rail system and so many shortcomings in our infrastructure. Major shortcomings are prerequisites for this, as there are not properly trained staff to meet this challenge. Leaving behind EUR 60 billion in budget deficits does not leave the same room for investment in infrastructure. Now the situation is different. We have 80 billion in surplus in government finances. We can spend 100 billion more on a national investment plan. We can invest in increasing both railway maintenance and other important investments because we have turned Sweden's economy around. We now have the highest employment in Europe that has ever been measured. We have pushed down youth unemployment. It is now the lowest in 14 years. We'll make our election promise on the 90-day guarantee. Housing construction has taken a good pace, even if it falls slightly in the next few years. If it is 75 000 or 68 000 new homes, they are the highest historical level. It is absolutely necessary to meet the challenges that we have. With this, I would like to say that it is time for investment. The reason for this is that we have managed to reverse Sweden's economic development by prioritising investments before unfunded tax cuts, by using resources for things that build society strongly. Then we can all be pleased that in our various budget options we can spend a little extra money on what we are passionate about in the Committee on Transport, that is, more infrastructure. This is important to remember. Now, if we're going to make this big effort, the starting point is that we're doing it to connect the country. We make investments that strengthen our competitiveness with clear business policy priorities, but above all we will meet the challenge that we signed through the Paris Agreement. We will make the transition so that we can look our children and grandchildren in the eye and say that in our generation we did what we could and made the necessary decisions. It is clear that if we are to comply with what is said in the Paris Agreement and meet the high ambitions that we have set ourselves in Sweden, then it will be a major condition in the transport sector and in the infrastructure sector. More goods must then be transported by rail or by sea. Then truck transport must be made more efficient. D we must change the drivelines and change and modernise the vehicle fleet. Then aviation must be able to bear its environmental impact. Then we'll have to be able to reset. When I meet different business actors around Sweden, I can feel that this is not where the resistance is. The Swedish automotive industry does not put the heels on the hill towards rapid technological development, but the resistance is sometimes with some bourgeois parties who do not really dare to take up that challenge. Nevertheless, I see a rather strong enthusiasm and optimism in this House, and I think that is well-lucky. We are facing common challenges in the future. Those of you who know me know that I like the idea of finding cross-block agreements in strategic choices, whether they are major infrastructure investments or important instruments to meet the climate challenges ahead. But we must realise that this requires a high level of ambition. For example, the latest figures from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. This week it was announced that total greenhouse gas emissions have decreased by 1.6 per cent since 2015. This is a 26% reduction since 1990. It is a clear reduction in recent years precisely on transport, thanks to the change of fuel and all the other efforts we are making to ensure that we can make a change on the transport side – this in a situation when we have record growth. In this way, we can forever put aside the silly contradiction that sometimes exists between high growth and the ability to cope with climate ambitions. We can do this because we ensure that it is right and sustainable growth. Of course, it feels particularly good to know that now after years of investment in new technology, in research and in collaboration with the business community, we have an industrial sector that can handle the transformation and that ensures that we develop the goal of being fossil-free a. We're going to be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. We will do so by building what I usually call the permanent world exhibition for climate-smart technology in the infrastructure area. If you go on the electricity road up in Sandviken you can see that it is not a coincidence that Sandviken was elected in front of California. Nor is it a coincidence that it is in Sweden, with Scania and other actors, that you can handle the challenges, which you do not do in other parts of Europe. For us, this is absolutely essential when we make the priorities of the forthcoming national plan. They are directed towards what is new technology and implementation that can meet future challenges. That is why we must also ensure that we strengthen all the modes of transport that contribute to this. I am pleased that we in this House mentioned shipping and that there is a strong commitment to it. When I was out on Donsö and was able to go out there with Sjösäddningen's fantastic employees to open the flag of new ships that go on LNG, it was a symbolic and historic event. The flag is now increasing after years of flagging out. This strengthens Swedish shipping, and it does so when a Social Democratically led government has implemented a change in the tonnage tax system. We deliver when other people just talk. It is clear that this is necessary in order to give shipping the hope it needs for future investment. If we then link this with the freight transport strategy, where we will look at how we can invest right and wisely in future ports, how we can link the chain between shipping, rail – rail – and efficient forest transport, we can think stringwise. We do this with BK4 trucks and 74-ton trucks as well as electric roads and investments in longer train sets. We also do this by ensuring that we have a strategy for the priorities we should have so that, as a small export-dependent welfare country, we can manage to give industry, not least, the best conditions to make sustainable transport. That is important, because sustainable transport is what we want. It is as Karin Svensson Smith said in her speech: There is a longing to send more freight on trains and a longing of citizens to travel more trains. Therefore, the national plan will also be very heavy in terms of investments in trains in the future. I believe that this is absolutely necessary in terms of both maintenance efforts and new investments. Everyone knows the challenges, not least in terms of investment. How happy I am to have 100 billion more! But everyone in this room – in the gallery and down here in the Chamber – and elsewhere knows that we would like more. I have therefore said that I turn all the stones around. I am looking at every possibility of finding additional funding as well. I would like to discuss this with the parties of the Alliance, not least. However, I say clearly that regardless of whether we are talking about loan financing, green bonds or OPS solutions, everyone must be aware that any additional funding opportunities have the peculiarity that they still affect the fiscal space. There are no free lunches. There are also no free loans to take, as many countries in Europe have made the mistake of believing. We must look responsibly at how we manage to finance the desired commitments in the future. I hope and believe that we can have a constructive discussion on this in the coming months. Having said that, I can still feel that it is time for investment and that there is a strong longing for the entire Swedish population and the business community to do so. When Sweden submits its final report now in December, we have the necessary basis for taking the strategic discussions and decisions that we in the government will then take in the spring. You know that infrastructure and transport policy are not just national plans or freight transport strategies. It is also a budget, and only in this year's budget is SEK 138 million more spent over three years to increase security in station environments. On Monday, I will sit down with Jernhusen, Trafikverket, the police and several other actors to have a discussion about how we should use these resources best for the passengers to feel safe in the station environments. We are moving forward with other proposals in this budget and on the part of the government to also increase road safety. This could be about road safety, where we go forward with the proposal on alco-boms in the ports. This is a flexible solution that does not need to use too much resources from the police, but which may still mean that we secure alcohol controls in all the ports of the country. This can be an incredibly important contribution to ensuring road safety. In the same way, we are now making demands on winter tyres on all trucks' wheels and on trailers to ensure that we prevent accidents or improve road accessibility in the future. Here I am a little perplexed by the signals of some of the Alliance's representatives. I very much hope that there is a broad consensus behind the demand for winter tyres. This is, of course, absolutely crucial both from the point of view of road safety and health and safety at work for those who have the tough task of promoting these transports on the roads. Everyone has noted and I think that most in Parliament find it gratifying that I say a few words on the steering wheel. We shouldn't open the door because you can sit and fiddle with your cell phone while you're driving. We need to ensure a safe environment, and that is why we need to give the police the tools they think they need to make the traffic environment safe in the future. Legislation is signal language and the legislation in this case will be clear. You should not sit and text or play games while driving. Finally, we are also making great efforts to increase the safety of those who have the tough task of promoting transport on our roads. I am talking about rules on cabotage and driving and rest times and the transport rules that we have for road traffic. On the news this morning we could hear that foreign haulage companies arrange their trips in a way that allows them to avoid paying taxes in Sweden. This is not acceptable. Our requirements are clear: Such domestic transport with foreign vehicles should be of a temporary nature, and Swedish conditions should apply on roads when driving in Sweden. This is precisely the starting point when I was in Brussels this week and discussed with my fellow ministers. Cabotage transport shall be temporary. Rules on combined transport and cabotage need to be coordinated. Posting declarations shall also be made in the road transport sector. We have tough negotiations on this before us, but I am optimistic and believe that in the next six months, together with the Road Alliance, cooperation between many states in Europe, we will be able to get good and proper rules on our roads. In order to complement this, we in Sweden are proposing a rule on 36 ‐ hour-clamping on the vehicles. We will also have sanctions of over SEK 40 000 for foreign hauliers who drive illegally in Sweden, and we are making a change in the penalty fees. They should, on the one hand, make it easier for those who make accidental errors and, on the other hand, clearly provide penalties or penalties for those who systematically abuse the rules we have today. In the near future, we will also present a bill on ordering liability so that the buyer of the shipment will ensure that the shipment is also carried out legally. In this way we move forward the positions and strengthen the infrastructure and transport policy in Sweden. It took a change of government for a lot of things to happen. A good economy and order and order are needed in the state's finances in order to achieve this. We deliver both. I feel proud and confident of what we have done so far in government. I hope that through good discussions with the opposition we can find broad solutions on some important strategic investments that are needed in the future, but ultimately it is the government that has the opportunity to put its foot down on the national plan. However, my hope is that it will also be in broad harmony. I hope for continued good cooperation but also tough and fun political discussions when needed.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-680	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his speech. In order to come from a person who claims to like cross-block agreements, it is a little unexpected and unfortunate that every speech from the Government begins by accusing the former government of underinvestments. To quote a wise moderate party leader, a more adult tone of the debate may sometimes be needed, especially when what is said is directly wrong. The Alliance government doubled the money for railway maintenance and started new investments, such as Ostlinken, which the Government is now happy to cut ties for. But my question is about something else. We have discussed climate change a lot here today. One issue that is on everyone's lips right now is the question of environmental zones, which can regulate what kind of traffic should exist in our cities. The Moderates welcome the fact that municipalities are given more tools to address air quality problems and limit values in our cities, as long as it is recognised that solutions need to look different in different parts of Sweden and that there must be a reasonableness in these proposals. Now we hear how leading environmental partners in the country talk about banning diesel cars by 2020, that is, about almost two years. At least from a moderate point of view, it has to be said that it is quite unreasonable. People have to have an honest chance to change. The rules of politics cannot be too twitchy and unpredictable, because then people's confidence in politics is damaged. Therefore, my question to the Government is whether it is the government's view that we should ban diesel cars by 2020. This is, of course, a decision that the government has at its disposal. Is it the case that they should be banned in 2020? If not, how and when does the government want to design environmental zones? I and many anxious people out there would appreciate a reply on this important issue.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-685	Madam President, I would like As far as environmental zones are concerned, it is the government that owns the issue and can present the proposals. We are currently preparing proposals that have come from the Swedish Transport Agency. When we give the municipalities this opportunity, and we want to do so, I think it is incredibly important that the proposals are so designed that they both provide effective instruments for achieving a not least health-friendly urban environment and at the same time provide reasonable regulation, so that they still provide access for as many people as possible who want to be able to enter the cities. This responsibility will also lie with local politicians who use environmental zones. It will be more detailed in due course. First, we will be clear in the government with the discussions on how the proposal should be designed. I note, however, that the Moderates think it is good that we are creating the possibility of introducing environmental zones. It is good that the Moderates think so, because I believe that there has been a growing understanding that we must be able to cope not only with changing the vehicle fleet but also to take responsibility for creating safe and not least from a health point of view safe environments. I noted, however, that Jessica Rosencrantz said in her main speech that the government By that, Jessica Rosencrantz possibly meant that we have record employment and record sales of cars. We've modernised the car park. We have reduced emissions compared to the previous government. We have record investments in climate-smart new technologies. I cannot see that this would throw away the bones of either companies or private individuals. On the contrary, I see that we are now taking important steps forward to meet the climate challenge, but also to ensure that we get new investments that benefit Swedish entrepreneurship, the Swedish export industry and the automotive industry, which are now changing at the rate that they think is excellent, because they receive appropriate political demands from a government that has high climate ambitions. In what way does Jessica Rosencrantz think that we are now putting away the legs of people and businesses, when we can see that it actually goes like the train?
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-690	Madam President, I would like When the Minister's colleagues in the government say that we should travel less and transport less and then want to introduce a kilometre tax and a flight tax that heavily hits travel and distance, to name but a few examples, I think it is putting away the bones of many people and businesses. I note that I am not getting a firm answer on environmental zones. I can only appeal to the government to return in the near future. A lot of people are worried. Next to the dwelling, the car is the biggest investment you make. If the government goes along with the Green Party's proposal and bans diesel cars in 2020 in our cities, it will obviously have effects. I also note that the City of Stockholm has already budgeted for environmental zones next year. But at the same time as banning diesel cars by 2020, the Minister for the Environment in the Government of the Government of the Government says no when the Commission urges Sweden to require vehicle manufacturers to recall those cars that do not comply with the purification requirements. I find this particularly strange. Is it the government's policy, then, that vehicle manufacturers whose cars are clearly in breach of established rules and cleaning requirements should not have to take responsibility, while ordinary people should see their cars banned in just a few years' time? My question is quite specific. Why does the government not heed the Commission's call for the government to require vehicle manufacturers to recall the dirty diesel cars that do not comply with the cleaning requirements? If this requirement is not complied with, how can it be seen as being responsible for the environment?
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-694	Madam President, I would like I think Jessica Rosencrantz should go less on media data and instead see what's really happening. We are currently preparing the Commission's views and investigating what legal possibilities exist in Sweden – we do not have German legislation – in order to fulfil the responsibilities that also the automotive companies have. Environmental zones must of course have a design that allows municipal politicians to make efforts to improve the urban environment – which is most relevant here in Stockholm, not at home in Växjö – while ensuring good accessibility. We will come back with proposals in the near future. But it is no secret that in Berlin, Paris, California or anywhere in the world you are discussing the health effect of diesel cars. If this is not the case, the concerns of many citizens are not taken seriously. Unfortunately, the Moderates have had a history of not really prioritising climate issues. If there's a reversal, I'd really appreciate it. But then one must also take responsibility for tough climate regulation and be able to support both bonuses – malus and other changes in the vehicle fleet as we are currently doing. We deliver. It was not done during the alliance period.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-697	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government. History is important. Before the alliance government took office in 2006, the responsible minister was Messing Messing. The finance minister's name was Bosse Ringholm. The Alliance government inherited the transport policy area and then the national plan, which the Government is currently preparing, where the identified financial hole was approximately SEK 60 billion. Eight years of alliance rule followed, when both the money for operation and maintenance and the new investments increased significantly – doubled. Now the cooperation government is pursuing the same policy that the alliance government was pursuing and increasing strongly. We welcome this from the Alliance, the Government. But I think the history description is important. When trains do not go on time, it is the passengers who are affected. The frustration of the commuters grows for every signal error. Too often you are forced to come too late – to work, to the children's preschool or for that matter for the coming Christmas weekend. Government! The Centre Party takes the passengers' situation seriously and therefore started last autumn a train call with a petition. Thousands of people have signed the roll call. These are now demanding a response. Are we gonna make it to work on time? Do we get to the meeting? Will we arrive in time for Christmas? That is why I have brought to the Government the signatures that we have collected in the hope that the matter will be taken more seriously. It is a question of trust in one of our most expensive communications systems, the Government. If you are going to travel by train throughout the country, you also need to be able to trust that the trains really run. Thousands of Swedes demand the government's response and commitment to the issue.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-700	Madam President, I would like I thank Anders Åkesson for his commitment. I promise to copy up this train call and make sure that Annie Lööf and perhaps Jessica Rosencrantz are assigned, because it is enough that more people are responsible if we have shortcomings in our infrastructure in the future. It is undeniably the case that it takes a long time to overcome the underinvestments we have had for a long time. Anders Åkesson himself belongs to a party that wants to delay the introduction of Ertms in favour of the old ATC. It can be said that this will hardly increase the punctuality of the train system. Anders Åkesson also represents a party that voted against the government's commitment to increased railway maintenance in the b udget 2015. There, SEK 1.24 billion disappeared, which has hardly improved the conditions for ensuring that the trains arrive on time. Words must be followed by action, and in this case I welcome whether the Centre Party now wants increased investment in rail. I appreciate the support and commitment that now exists in the Centre Party, but I also note that, in terms of the whole area of expenditure, the Centre Party, like all the bourgeois parties, still has less money at its disposal under Category 22 because you have other priorities. In the end, you still choose to spend less money on infrastructure than the government does. Then it's a little up to evidence. Are these important priorities in reality, or is it only when you collect names that you campaign for the trains? I hope and would like to believe that this is an honest commitment. In that case, I welcome Anders Åkesson on the wagon so we can make sure that together we continue to invest in the railway. The proposal from Trafikverket makes a 75% investment in the railways.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-704	Madam President, I would like Another question, the Government: the airline tax. I would like the Government to explain the following lines of the budget we are dealing with: they are on p. 49, category 22:中 In order to ensure that the tax does not increase operating deficits at non-state airports in Norrland, additional funds are added for this purpose. ..................................................... After all, the government as a whole is behind a budget, and it is prepared jointly. I would like the Government to explain to the House and to those who operate airports, travel by air and operate routes how the Government intends to introduce the air tax. It will fly, if we may use that expression, from 1 April next year. It will have dramatic consequences for some lines and how they will be operated– we already know that. Calculations have been made to show that up to six or seven airports may suffer the loss of routes as profitability disappears. This will be a cost that does not affect the environment but people's tendency to use aviation as a mode of transport; they will travel by car instead. How will the government compensate airports in Norrland? I ask the question, the Government, particularly in the light of the recent discussion the Government has had with the EU to even support regional airports within the framework of the county transport plans. It was a long struggle.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-708	Madam President, I would like I am a little surprised by Anders Åkesson's question. The Centre Party with several alliance parties is against this money. We do not want to spend extra money on regional airports, which I find very strange. They are located in rural areas, in sparsely populated areas, and are important infrastructure. We think it is important to put extra resources there. Unlike the previous government, we have also made it clear what the state aid rules are. It was a constant uncertainty for very many airports in Sweden that the EU consistently reviewed whether it was state aid when we ensured that there was a good infrastructure throughout the country. Now we can remove that threat from the decision we have taken in the European Union. We have also adopted a flight strategy and started a Arlanda Council. It is right now that you feel a little faith in the future and hope for the future, when you see the possibilities for aviation. But we are also clear: Air travel must bear its climate impact. SEK 60 in increased air tax for a ticket can have its clear effect. Then I belong to those who, like Anders Åkesson and many others, hope that in the future we will be able to cope with both fuel changes and changes when it comes to fuel on the aircraft side. But the climate crisis is not waiting. We cannot wait to act. Therefore, the air tax is also an important part of ensuring that aviation will bear its climate costs. So my question goes back: given that Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Norway and Austria also have air taxes, I would like Anders Åkesson to report how this has contributed to dramatic conversions in the German fleet, or in the UK, France, Norway or Austria. I can't see any such changes.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-713	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Infrastructure has been dealing with the question of redesigning the transport sector. We fully share that objective from the Liberals. We think it is important to ensure that we have a sustainable transport system. Then the question is how this is to be done, and I think we have slightly different views there. I have two different questions. The first is about the possibility to reward what is climate-smart, sustainable and good for public health but where there are a number of structural problems associated with the regulatory framework, over which the government and the Riksdag can advise. I note, for example, that it is difficult to get infrastructure in place, to access land, to plan across regional and municipal borders and much more. This is not the case for roads, for example, but, as I see it, for a certain type of traffic there is a major concern. There are two-plus-one roads, where cycling is not prohibited but there are no alternatives and is almost impossible from the point of view of road safety. There are lots of service routes that cannot be used because of the regulatory framework, which hampers development. The problems are numerous and prevent infrastructure from coming into place so that you can be the climate-smart traveler.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-718	Madam President, I would like First of all, when it comes to own traffic, I do not think it has much practical significance; the important thing is what you do in reality. We now have a bicycle strategy. The Alliance government couldn't pull up for eight years. But now we have a clear strategy that gives hope for all bike enthusiasts and where a holistic approach is actually taken on how cycling can be developed in Sweden. We also have clear investments in infrastructure in Trafikverket's proposal. Although it is essentially a municipal and regional task, the government takes on more responsibility than ever for building more bicycle infrastructure. We also invest in the budget in a special centre for cycling in connection with VTI in order to build a national competence regarding cycling. So I am very proud that we are now getting a significant increase in the commitment of the government to bicycle policy. We can do this because we have more resources available than before and because we can also spend more money under Category 22. I note that the Liberals have 1 469 000 000 less to move with, and my question back to Nina Lundström is therefore: Is it more or less good infrastructure policy if you spend less money?
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-722	Madam President, I would like Then one should study the budget as a whole, and I note that the government had 622.5 billion for infrastructure investments; the Liberals had 623.5 billion – 1 billion more for cycling – plus the money available in various areas of expenditure. So the Minister for Infrastructure is wrong there. I believe that the government and parliament can actually make a difference here. In 2015, the Riksdag decided on an announcement that included two parts. One was a national bicycle strategy, and the other was to consider cycling as a separate mode. I note that the government in the budget bill states that the announcement has been finalised. As cycling is not regarded as a law of its own, I take this as meaning that the government will not make that change. Then my question to the Minister for Infrastructure is: how does the Minister intend to resolve the questions of land access, the possibility of planning and developing routes, the possibility of reviewing two-plus-one routes and the possibility of using the service routes so that the infrastructure is in place? If you are a mountain biker and like single track you can maybe take the forest road, but for most others this is about switching from car to bicycle about signage, string, maintenance and infrastructure being in place. Then you can become a climate-smart traveler. Then you can contribute by also using the possibilities for cycling, but if the infrastructure does not exist it will be very difficult. I think we should help everyone, so that it's easy to do the right thing. We will help people get that opportunity. I do not hear any new reform proposals from the government. Therefore, my question remains: Why not view cyclism just like other modes of transport?
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-726	Madam President, I would like No new reform proposals," says Nina Lundström. We have developed a whole cycle strategy! We spend more money than ever on infrastructure for cycling. I think that no one who has followed the questions of cycling can fail to see that this is a completely different activity on the part of the government now than from any government in the past, and this is evident in Cykelsverige. The enthusiasm is bigger than ever, and it is cycled more. Then take to yourself the discussion about premiums for electric bicycles and the success that it has been! No one can fail to see that we reward cycling. With regard to the fact that cycling does not become a law of its own, I can only note that, now that the matter has been submitted to Parliament, there does not seem to be a majority in the Committee on Transport for the line that Nina Lundström advocates. Most other parties think that this is the wrong way to go, and I think I should follow what is also Parliament's main view on this issue.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-729	Madam President, I would like The minister said in the shift with Anders Åkesson that we in the Alliance do not invest in regional airports. I just want to say to the Minister that he will read what our respective draft budgets say. We are against the extra effort made by the government, because you have already calculated that the introduction of the national airline tax will entail an additional cost for many regional airports. To cover the harmful tax that you want to introduce, you add additional resources. Madam President, I would like In previous debates during the year, we said, finally! When the EU agreed to our financing model for regional airports. A lot of them don't add up. We support this financing model in the alliance parties. The funds are in our respective budgets. However, we say no to the additional compensation that has come about as a result of the introduction of a national airline tax. Resources have thus been added because of the harmful introduction of air tax. It will increase the cost of travel and cause some airports that are already running in deficit to be forced to close down.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-732	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Robert Halef. I simply note that the Christian Democrats, like the other bourgeois parties, are removing SEK 84 800 000 from compensation to non-state airports. Of course they'll get 84 million less. Despite the adoption of the budgetary framework and the introduction of the air tax, you still want to remove these resources. If you sum up the entire expenditure category 22 – we are in a budget debate – we can see that the Christian Democrats in total want to put 605 800 000 SEK less in the area of infrastructure. So you have a lower ambition than the government in terms of infrastructure investments. I am delighted with the commitment. I am pleased that we want more to be built. We see that in Sweden we now have a good economy that gives us the opportunity to invest more. However, in Category 22, it is clearly the case that less resources are being allocated by the Christian Democrats. The question is the same here: does this provide more or less infrastructure?
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-735	Madam President, I would like It is true that we have 600 million less in a budget of about 56 billion. But we do not raise the tax by 40 billion, as you do. You're making it worse for pensioners to work. You raise taxes for those who work. We completely removed the tax differential between salary and pension, but you do not. We make completely different priorities. We are investing more in health care. We're spending more on care for the elderly. You are investing SEK 5 billion in su bventing the construction. You are giving SEK 5 billion to developers instead of giving the money to people who need it – people with disabilities, who are daily demonstrating and worried about the restrictive assessment you have introduced in Försäkringskassan. This is simply the case: we do not raise taxes as much as you do, but we do other redistributions. We invest more in health care, care for the elderly and security, and we invest in more police officers, higher police salaries and so on. As far as the compensation for non-state airports is concerned, we are covering their costs in the same way as we have done in the past in our draft budget, but we are saying no to your introduction of a new national airline tax, which increases travel costs and will wipe out some regional airports. Of course, we say no to this very cost because we do not share your view of what the introduction of a national airline tax means. In fact, eight out of ten referrals have sawed your proposal.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-740	Madam President, I would like As I said, air tax already exists in Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Norway and Austria. I haven't seen any dramatic effects. I also note that the Christian Democrats want to remove SEK 85 million from regional airports – this in a situation where, through discussions and negotiations with the EU, we have come to a decision that means that we know that we are not in breach of state aid rules when we give aid to regional airports. We have removed the concerns that have existed in the past as a result of the EU's interpretation of the regulatory framework. Now it is clear that support can be given to those who have less than 200 000 passengers. The other budgetary issues may not be part of this debate. However, I cannot help but respond to the fact that it was the Christian Democrats who introduced the difference in taxation between pensioners and wage earners, and we are the ones who remove it. It is we who are giving more resources to health care, and it is now that unemployment is the lowest ever and housing construction has taken off. If the EUR 5 billion are so terrible, I can tell you that there are thousands of people who are delighted that they actually have a home when 75 000 homes have been built this year. For a country with a significant housing crisis in all municipalities, it is nice to finally have a government that has taken hold of housing construction. I can live with one or another tax increase, but for pensioners we lower the tax and remove the tax gap. This was not done during the time of the alliance government.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-744	Madam President, I would like I was going to talk a little bit about the infrastructure and what the government has introduced and not. Today, the government is ruling in a minority, which means that it needs support for its proposals, either from the alliance parties or from the Swedish Democrats. It was therefore sad to hear that the Minister wanted talks with the alliance parties but not with us Swedish democrats. I hope the Minister forgot to mention us. But at least I can tell the Minister that our door is open all the time. Then I thought I'd go in a little bit on this mess. According to today's rules, clarification can last 24 hours, and the proposal is now that it should last 36 hours. 36 hours is actually a pretty stupid time, because if you stoop a vehicle at the clock. 12 o'clock is the next day. 24 the police are going to come and loosen the clamp. What I wonder is why it has not been applied until the penalty fee has been paid.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-748	Madam President, I would like 36 hours may prove to be the most effective time. This is the time that the police and prosecutors have also found most appropriate. I want the police and prosecutors to have the right opportunities to act. That's why we're landing in an extension from 24 to 36 hours. It will be a clear instrument, combined with changes in fines, to ensure that we get more order and know the Swedish roads, and that is absolutely crucial. As far as budgetary and infrastructure issues are concerned, I know that Pia Nilsson previously had an exchange of views with Jimmy Ståhl. I can only note that the billions that differ derive from the fact that the Swedish democrats generally take a great deal of money in their budget options from other areas, such as welfare. However, once this applies in the Riksdag, you do not always vote on your own budget. The Swedish Democrats have in recent years, once it has been in force, voted on the Moderates' budget. It has been suggested that Anna Kinberg Batra should be prime minister candidate or, now, Ulf Kristersson. That is a strange way of putting forward the position of one's own party. I was even more surprised by one thing. I have to ask Jimmy Ståhl a question if the quote is going to go from upper Norrland down to civilization. I'd just like to know what Jimmy Ståhl means. Should we interpret it as that the Swedish Democrats do not think that Upper Norrland is a part of civilization? I think that was a strange comment. I would very much like to ask Jimmy Ståhl to explain himself.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-751	Madam President, I would like No, actually, I had to hit myself on the forehead when I sat down. It wasn't the word that would fall out of my mouth. In the exchange of views I had with Emma Wallru p, I would have said: the city. In Emma Wallrup's speech, it sounded as if she wanted to lock up Upper Norrland, which I find regrettable. We know it's going to start big battery plants there. They will be closer to the energy source and more. It is important that we have a good transport to and from Norrland. Then I thought I would take the opportunity to raise another issue when I have the Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth here. We know that shipping has a huge need to be able to get more capital and perhaps some changes in tonnage tax, so that more ships are flagged in. But we also have another problem today. These are the ports, such as the Port of Gothenburg, where I myself once worked. Today we see ships leaving the ports. We have a foreign company that operates port operations today. My question to Tomas Eneroth is: how can we ensure the operation of the largest and most important port in northern Europe?
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-754	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jimmy Ståhl, for the clarification of the statement! That's good to hear. It is important that we invest in communications also in upper Norrland. I am among those who are pleased to see that the Norrbotnia Line and other infrastructure initiatives can become a reality in the future. This is important in order to strengthen the basic industry and the nutrition that exists in that part of Sweden, but also for people to be able to get up to the beautiful Norrland coast. Having said that, I would like to say that ports are a priority for me. If we are to have a good strategy in the future that clearly ensures that underused shipping can be strengthened, we must also have well-functioning ports. We have an investigation by the government that looks at the labour market conflict issue itself, which concerns the Port of Gothenburg. But besides that, I have visited the Port of Gothenburg myself to ensure that we can also make other types of investments there. It is the most important port in northern Europe, and it is important for Swedish industry to be able to get goods on the seas in the future. I will gather representatives from all the ports in the country – there are 54 – for a joint meeting at the Ministry of Industry to discuss the good strategy on which investments are most prioritised in the future for our ports. If we are to strengthen shipping, not only the tonnage tax system, the ECO bonus or any adjustments in fairway charges will suffice, but we must also ensure that the infrastructure we have at our disposal is adequate to promote shipping. I want to see more ships flagged in. I felt proud the day we stood on Donsö and noted that it was a flagging ceremony for the first time in 15 years. This is where it happens. It is now also shipping can feel a little hope for the future. And this is due to the fact that we have a social democratic government.
i-a1733e3bc56419f0-759	Madam President, I would like The Transport Committee is one of Parliament's most important committees. It affects many people in their everyday lives. Many times people ask the questions: Where am I? Where am I going? How do I get there? It is precisely when it falls on the last issue that the infrastructure becomes so tangible and important. Madam President, I would like A month ago I was with the police at their checkpoint outside Helsingborg. Every foreign truck they brought in got notes. And many cheated with driving and resting times. There was a cop who said: It's kind of like fishing in an aquarium when you pick up the foreign trucks. A foreign haulage company that cheats can drive for SEK 50 per mile, while a Swedish haulage company needs at least SEK 110 per mile to make it go around. For the Swedish Democrats, it is important that we get a transport industry that can compete in a healthy market. This is why legislation must be adapted to the current market. Since Sweden joined the EU, conditions have changed dramatically. In many respects, the doors are wide open to operators who do not comply with the laws and regulations that surround the transport industry. The situation today is very serious for the Swedish haulage industry. It takes a lot of effort to get to grips with the cheating. With a well-functioning transport industry that does not suffer under unhealthy competition, both environmental considerations and efficiency can be significantly improved. In order to strengthen the serious transport industry, which can be both Swedish and foreign transport companies, compliance with the rules must be significantly improved. We know today that there is a link between illegal transport and other criminal activities, and that is why we believe that the control system on the move must be strengthened. A Swedish version of the German BAG system can be created to control professional traffic, with well-trained staff able to handle all types of road transport. The proper functioning of control activities will create a healthy transport market and enable serious companies to operate in a well-functioning market. In Sweden there are currently about 180 traffic police officers. In Värmland there are two traffic police officers covering an area equivalent to the whole of Belgium. We must have more traffic police, as in the German BAG system, which cannot be lent to music arrangements, border controls and other things. They should be specialized in what they should handle, i.e. traffic issues. The Swedish Democrats invest 1 billion more than the government in maintaining state infrastructure. Former governments have used the railways as a form of budget regulator. I would therefore like to pay tribute to the current government, which is seriously trying to catch up with preventive maintenance and maintenance debt. I started as a train driver in 1987. The railway station was formed in 1988 - 89, and at that time 85 percent of the Banverket budget was spent on preventive maintenance and 15 percent on panic measures. Not so many years ago, it was exactly the opposite: 85% of the budget went to panic and 15% to preventive maintenance. This, Madam President, is because the railways do not talk about when the railways are sick. The railroad will tell you when the railroad breaks down. Contact lines are not worn significantly, but they are worn one hundred thousandth of a millimeter for each passing train. If it has passed a hundred thousand trains, the overhead contact line has become one millimeter thinner. If it has passed 1 million trains, the overhead contact line is one centimetre thinner than it was when it was new, and then it had to be replaced. If you then have a maintenance plan that says that a contact line should be changed every forty years but the train traffic has doubled in recent years, then you do not need to be a rocket scientist to realize that the contact line needs to be changed twice as often as before. That is why there must be more money for preventive maintenance. Madam President, I would like I am the last speaker on the ground, so with these words I wish the President and my colleagues in the Committee on Transport a good weekend.
