i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-5	Mr President, I would like to Allow me to apologise now that I may have underestimated my need for speaking time somewhat. It is time to debate Swedish cultural heritage policy. Much of what we are going to debate today is about our common history, but for this very reason I was going to take my starting point in the present. We live in a new age – an exciting and amazing time, but also a troubled time. I myself belong to a border generation. By the time I went to school, the Internet had not yet had its impact. We learned that there was something coming called the World Wide Web, but that it probably wouldn't be that much of it. At my high school computer course – it was called that at the time – we learned: Faster computers than this, there is no point, because then they would think faster than the speed of light, and that would be impossible. Little did you know what was going to happen. Today, the world is both our field of work and our arena of experience. If you used to think that the world started in the next parish, we know today that the next continent is just a stone's throw away. The war in Syria is taking place on our neighboring farm. People are fleeing across the Mediterranean and through Europe. Sweden continues to renew and change. The conflicts that used to exist in an indeterminate Until April, we said that acts of terrorism were happening over there, not in our home. Now we know differently. But it's not just misery. We have never consumed as much information as we do today. It flows towards us whether we want it or not. When the net came, they said: Now the interpersonal contact is over – we will sit there, hazy and hole-eyed, staring into our screens and forgetting what it is to be human. But the truth is, we've never been more social or talked to each other more. However, it is another form of conversation. My most personal reflection is that when the width increases, the depth decreases. When we are always available, we lose the need to stop. The afterthought must give way to all new impressions and thoughts. The information society is amazing. But do we really have room for the reflection society? For me, this is where culture and cultural heritage come in. Throughout history, culture has always been the bearer of stories. They can come to us through words and text, through music, through a painting or through a truly unique experience. It is also through stories we learn. That's how we transfer knowledge between people and between generations. Basically, this is about the exchange of experience and the management of memories. For me, this is what cultural heritage policy is all about. That is why we are here today. Cultural heritage is our common memory bank. It contains all the experiences and knowledge that give us the strength to understand our time and manage our future. For this, all those who work daily to manage and develop our cultural heritage deserve a great deal of recognition. Many have tried to define cultural heritage. The concept can be used in different ways. The government makes a legitimate attempt when it is said that it is a track and expression from the past that is attributed value and used in contemporary times. But the question is whether I don't think Qaisar Mahmood at the National Heritage Office succeeded better when he had T-shirts printed up with the verb Mr President, I would like to Precisely this with definitions and concepts is important, because what can be perceived as both basic and inclusive for one can be used to exclude others. I am deeply concerned that we are at a time when historical revisionism is spreading and national symbols are being kidnapped and distorted in various ways by populist and xenophobic forces. When this happens, knowledge is always the best protection. The romanticized postcard image of meadows, pastures, red cabins and playing children is not an exclusive image of something genuine Swedish that contrasts with all other cultural expressions. Nor is it the image of the arduous peasant society, the Swedish flag that sways in the wind, or stories of the great deeds of kings or wandering. The Swedish cultural heritage is all that, but it is also the celebration on 13 December of a Catholic saint from Syracuse. Swedish cultural heritage is also the pizzeria in Åstorp. It's QX Gaygala in February. It is our musical heritage that continues to be developed by people born on – or originating in – our entire planet. These are all the impressions and expressions we have received from different parts of the world since the Viking raids. Culture is by its very nature inclusive, dynamic, changing, urban, open and accommodating. It is also our cultural heritage. The only boundaries that culture sets are those who want to shut out and define one or the other expression as more pure, genuine and exclusive, something belonging to a chosen small group. Of course we will celebrate our classic holidays such as Christmas, Easter and Midsummer. We're gonna do it like never before. And they won't be worth less because other Swedes celebrate id al-fitr. This is not a question of one religion or another or of something under threat. I was extremely happy when I could read how Björn Ulvaeus, an active humanist himself, defends school attendance in a newspaper with the words: Regardless of belief, a person without his cultural and spiritual rites is a lost person. Cultural heritage is in this context a foundation that creates security in a world that is now anything but secure. We all have a responsibility to stand up for that. Mr President, I would like to The government has previously said that much of the cultural heritage bill builds on the work of the former alliance government and that it wants to see continuity in that work. I welcome that. The former alliance government's bill Time for culture, the first of its kind in 40 years, states that culture should be a dynamic, challenging and untying force based on freedom of expression. Everyone should have the opportunity to participate in cultural life. Creativity, diversity and artistic quality should shape the development of society. Let me be clear. The Moderates and the Alliance want to continue their efforts to promote a living cultural heritage that is preserved, used and developed, to promote international and cultural exchanges and cooperation, and to pay particular attention to children's and young people's right to culture. We therefore also welcome many of the proposals that are now being made. During the last government we got a library team in place. Now also a museum team comes according to a similar formula. I think it is both good and important, and I think it strengthens the museum sector as a whole. It is also a good thing that the National Heritage Office is given a clear task. This model of an institution, work or authority with a specific coordinating role is also available elsewhere in the Swedish Government. Here too, the library sector with the Royal Library can act as a role model. One concept I would have liked to see more of in the bill is Then I am not talking about the inclusion of people, but about the inclusion of museums. Our museums are located all over Sweden and attract 26 1⁄2 million visitors every year. They are important to society from both a democratic and an economic perspective. Depending on how you count, there are about 1,700 museums. It employs around 6 000 annual workers and generates 5 1⁄2 billion in revenue. The museums are run in very different forms of organisation: by the public, by foundations, by companies, by associations or by individuals. There is a tremendous power to cooperate and to see the whole. The Cultural Heritage Bill focuses entirely on what is called museums run by the public. I think that is a very narrow definition. Diversity in the museum sector is both a strength and an asset. We need to see more cooperation between our museums. This may be the case for knowledge sharing, but also, for example, the lending of objects. This has also been proposed by the Alliance. Mr President, I would like to The Alliance has eight joint claims. Five of these have won the majority in committee. To this shall be added an additional claim from the general period of exercise, which has also won the committee's approval. The latter concerns the thousand-year physical cultural heritage of Sweden's church buildings, which needs to be protected for future generations. This is facing a major economic test, and here the committee believes that the government should carry out an in-depth survey of worthy buildings together with an analysis of future costs. I have spoken today about the importance of seeing the whole of Museisverige. Here is an improvement proposal from the government that state museums should be able to transfer objects from their collections to other museums within the public museum system. It is a good ambition, but given the structure of the museum sector, the state should not limit this to the general museum system. Today we have both association and foundation-driven museums and private museums. Just take the treasure of all our working-life museums! Why should our state museums not have the ability to judge where objects can come best in their own right? Why, for example, should the Historical Museum not be allowed to leave in the hands of the Jewish Museum the fantastic bima or pulppet for reading the Tora, which is already in the latter museum today? The Jewish Museum is a fantastic museum, which is entering new premises. This would be an excellent starting point for that. Parliament's decision will make it possible. A third announcement concerns cooperation between museums and schools. We need a cultural heritage policy that clarifies the link between the teaching of history in schools and the work of museums. I have noticed that the Minister for Culture thinks that the government has already taken up the height for this, but then she has not quite understood the meaning of what the Riksdag is now proposing. It's not just about being able to visit museums and make impact on their activities, but about giving every student the opportunity to gain relevant knowledge of our history and dynamic cultural heritage with its centuries-old influences from all corners of the world. We want to be able to link teaching to the work of museums in a more systematic way. Good role models exist in Canada as well as in the United States. A parliamentary majority has also supported the need for better legislation to protect the transport history of cultural heritage both on land and at sea and in the air. Similarly, to strengthen what is in the bill on digitisation of cultural heritage but with a special focus on research and education. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by mentioning something about the announcement concerning the protection of the specific nature of collections and museums – something that was perhaps not thought to require announcements about but which the Minister for Culture and the Government themselves raised the importance of, not least in the light of the actions of the National Museums of World Culture. Recently, the debate has focused on the future of these museums, focusing mainly on the three museums in Stockholm: the Mediterranean Museum, the Museum of Far Eastern Antiquities and the Museum of Ethnography. The government's actions have led to more questions than answers. Investigations have been ordered, but once the result has come, they have refused to handle it. Many have had legitimate concerns about the future. This applies to those who work at the museums in question, but also visitors, other stakeholders and Museisverige in general. How does the government really view our collections and museums? The Alliance has listened and taken the concerns seriously. In our joint motion for a government bill, we note that the government certainly speaks in general terms about the specific nature of museums or museums in general but avoids providing answers to important questions about the independence of museums. For us, it has been important to protect each museum's distinctiveness and proud collections. It is therefore gratifying that there is now a clear majority in parliament that has chosen to go against the government and instead follow the Alliance's line in terms of independence and specificity. The decision we are now making clearly states that the specific nature of each museum should be preserved and the definition of a museum based on its collections highlighted. The committee also points out the risks of co-location and/or a merger. We want the world culture museums to be given long-term good opportunities to live on the basis of their respective conditions and continue their work to modernise and make this part of our cultural heritage accessible. It is important for both education and research. Now it is up to the government to fully follow what the Riksdag decides. The three Swedish world culture museums in Stockholm need a policy that protects the uniqueness and does not fail the institutions. Mr President, I would like to As in the case of the government's proposal for a new film policy, I expect that the Minister for Culture will soon present this reform as the largest, best and most important throughout the term of office. I can then see that, during the examination of these two proposals, Parliament has opposed the government on no less than 13 points. It should be some kind of record. Today it has gone so far that the government parties, including the Culture Minister's own party, have twice as many reservations as the Alliance. However, this is a delicate problem for the government parties more than for me. Of course, I support all three reservations of the Alliance, but for the winning time I only ask for reservation 6.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-38	Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats support all of our reservations, but for time winning, I only ask for reservation 3. Today is a historic day, and it is not just for us to debate the Culture Committee's report on cultural heritage issues. It is a historic day for a cultural heritage worth remembering. It has characterized me and many in my district but also Swedish politics. On this very day, May 30, exactly 100 years ago, 50 men from Västernorrland Regiment arrive at Seskarö. At 12 o'clock, the interrogations begin. Eriksson's bakery is surrounded by military with on-screwed bayonets. A crowd of thousands of people, men, women and children, gather outside the bakery. One by one, the suspects go in for questioning. A gramophone plays The Sons of Work over and over again. Captain Falk commands that the gramophone be turned off. The crowd responds by singing Unison of the Sons of Work instead. The defendants will not be released as promised by the bailiff. Two of the suspects are declared in custody. Outside, the voice choir grows in strength: We want our comrades out! A stone is thrown to the bailiff and hits a window. Now the bailiff reads the High Rebellion Act and urges three times the crowd to disperse. Thus, all the law's criteria for pushing the crowd are met. The soldiers are heading for the mass with shed bayonets. ..................................................... The text is taken from Carsten Palmer's cultural article in Aftonbladet on 25 May and is about the Seskarö uprising, the hunger riots at Seskarö when sawmill workers forced to buy bread when rationing cards were exhausted and many people swallowed and were desperate. The bread rebellion made the authorities realize how serious the situation was, and it was not long before food supplies arrived on the island. Mr President, I would like to With this illustration, I would like to highlight the importance of a cultural heritage policy. Knowing history provides perspectives and explanations for the time we are in. Hunger riots affected Swedish politics, and Hjalmar Branting stressed the importance of democratic solutions and cooperation across party boundaries – a theme as topical today as it was a hundred years ago. Mr President, I would like to For Social Democracy, cultural heritage is a democratic right. Cultural heritage gives us tools to develop as human beings. It's about the right to know who you are and get perspective on your life and society. Where am I from? Where am I now, and where am I going? It is primarily in our meetings with each other that cultural heritage is created. It is everyone's stories that shape our cultural heritage and the history of Sweden. Our view is that cultural heritage should not only be accessible to everyone but also be participatory. It is a historic day today, not just because of the hunger riots, but because we are debating a historic bill on a coherent cultural heritage policy. It is with pleasure that we can note that a reasonably broad consensus prevails, with the exception of the Swedish Democrats. The most important thing about the bill is three things. The Museum Act is of particular importance and states that a museum will contribute to society and its development by promoting knowledge, cultural experiences and free opinion formation based on its subject area. The mission of knowledge and research is central. When it comes to cultural heritage that reaches out to more people, we are particularly pleased that free admission to state museums has had such a big impact and so good response. It is a reform of freedom and democracy. We know that there is more to be done to make cultural heritage available, but free admission is a first step along the way. Mr President, I would like to We have faith in the profession. We Social Democrats therefore see it as central that politics should remain within the limits of the sphere of politics. On that day politicians begin to want to control what is to be shown in museums or what stories may be told or what art may be shown – that day we are in trouble. But we must also allow the profession to develop museums and cooperate with each other. Therefore, we reserve our reservations against the announcement of preserving the specificity of each museum. Cultural heritage and school are another important area. The government has identified issues that need to be examined in order to strengthen cooperation between the school and the museums. The curriculum for comprehensive school, preschool class and recreation centre makes it clear that an awareness of cultural heritage gives us a secure identity that is important to develop, together with the ability to understand and live into the conditions and values of others. The Government considers in the bill that the National Heritage Board should be tasked with identifying the importance of cultural heritage for the school system, but also to increase collaboration between the cultural heritage institutions and the school system in all parts of the country. Today there is an announcement on the same subject, but we see no reason to anticipate the work that is already under way. Mr President, I would like to Cultural heritage faces major challenges in terms of digitalisation. The preservation of cultural heritage is a crucial issue for the future. It's not just about digitizing physical material, it's also about preserving Twitter, status updates, short Instagram posts and everything that concerns our social media today. In today's society, where social media expressions occur, we have important work to do when it comes to digitalisation. This is an important but difficult issue for the future. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to highlight the mobility of cultural heritage. I had the privilege of visiting Beckholmen here in Stockholm and meeting some of the enthusiasts who preserve old ships and build sailing ships. To see the endless hours spent building a boat from scratch or renovating an almost decayed ship is impressive. The same applies to the huge popular movement that engages in old cars, trains, boats or airplanes. We therefore welcome the Government's initiative to shape a new operational structure for the mobile cultural heritage. We will carefully follow the changes that also include strengthening the protection of the mobile cultural heritage. We believe in a strengthened conservation right, but we do not believe, as stated in the announcement, that rapid legislation is the right way forward. One thing to be particularly pleased about is the proposal for a broad archive inquiry. The archives play an extremely central role in our cultural heritage, where everything from historical political protocols to architectural drawings is preserved for the future. It is important, not least from a research point of view, that the archives exist. Mr President, I would like to Cultural heritage is also for me Staffan Svanberg – a enthusiast, storyteller and true folkbiling who unfortunately is no longer among us. Staffan was a multi-driver who burned for example the National Park at Sandskär in the Haparanda archipelago, where he often guided visitors and told stories that played out on the island, created by people and nature for hundreds of years. Through Staffan's stories, hundreds, even thousands, of people have learned about a wonderful cultural heritage. In this context, I would like to highlight the importance of having institutions that take care of stories such as Staffan's: the intangible cultural heritage, which is not physical objects, places or remains. Important institutions for the intangible cultural heritage are, of course, our museums and archives, but the Institute for Languages and People's Memories is also of particular importance. Mr President, I would like to It is in the language that the cultural heritage lives. It is the lullaby, the story, the books, the sayings, the dialects and the stories that gossip about our history, unconsciously and sometimes consciously. Minority policy and indigenous policy play a crucial role here. Although I am a tornado and have grown up with meänkieli, I have never conquered the language. I have discovered that it has created a rootlessness in me that I did not think I had. But it is precisely because the cultural heritage lives in the language that this rootlessness feels. The same applies to Sami. The survival of languages is therefore also an important issue for the survival of the entire cultural heritage. Mr President, I would like to This parliamentary year I have experienced perspectives on the cultural heritage that will be part of my life forever: the committee trip to South Africa, where the cultural heritage has such a central importance in healing the wounds created by apartheid, or the opening of the Parliamentary Session with the theme Northern Norrland, where His Majesty the King spoke of our cultural heritage being rich and multi-phase unified, created by people from different countries for centuries. I can also mention the visit to the Museum of World Culture in Gothenburg, which has a fantastic exhibition called Crossroads – Where worlds meet and talk about how people unite around the experiences of migration. I can add more experiences to the record, but with this I would really urge everyone to discover our amazing cultural heritage treasure in Sweden: our fantastic museums, associations, peoples' movements and institutions – everyone who works with cultural heritage issues. It'll be a life's journey, I can guarantee. Mr President, I would like to On Seskarö's local community association's website, it says:. the spirit that prevailed, the power that existed in the unity and striving for a better society, still characterizes something Seskarö and its population. For me, this is the symbolism of what cultural heritage means.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-67	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, I wonder a little how the specific nature of the concept of collections conflicts with independence. It is somewhere that politicians come and go, but collections remain. At least it's been that way until we got a red-green government. But instead, I was going to focus on what Ida Karkiainen is talking about: more culture for more, with a focus on free-entry reform. This was the big card for this parliamentary term – the biggest, most important and best reform, or one of the many. Now the gates would open. We heard Social Democratic politicians tell us how the children from the suburbs could go home and take their parents back to visit the museums; now more people would take part. Now there has been an analysis from the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis, and it briefly shows that the number of visitors increases if it is free; it is not surprising. But there weren't anyone else who came. That's exactly what it shows. These museums, which are mainly located in the inner city of Stockholm, increase the number of visits, but they are the same people who come again and again. It's people from the neighborhood and foreign tourists. It's not wrong that you can go more times in museums; it's great. I don't mind any more, but it has nothing to do with more. On the contrary, the reform proves to be a complete failure to find new groups coming to the museums. I wonder a little, Ida Karkiainen, whether the Social Democrats maintain that this is the biggest, best and most important cultural reform during the term of office. And now that things were not going so well, what measures are the Social Democrats prepared to take to make the reform work?
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-72	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the specific nature of the collections and the announcement that lies ahead, we believe that it is a step in the wrong direction to point out that museums must retain their specific character. We believe in the profession, and we believe they can do this on their own. When it comes to more culture to more people, we think that the free-entry reform has contributed tremendously to more people being able to take part in our cultural heritage. True, there are still challenges to be addressed. A constant challenge is that museums need to review their activities to see how it can attract more and new audiences – absolutely. There's a lot to work on. But the first step is to make free admission possible for everyone. It's a big threshold; you should remember that. Not everyone can afford to go to museums and want to spend the money on this. That it costs is therefore a large threshold, and we think it is an incredibly important reform to remove it.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-75	Mr President, I would like to I think this is a rather strange view of our collections. Collections are something that has been built up for a long time. We have them for loan where we are right now. They form the basis for research and education. To say then that there is no political responsibility to protect our collections is, I think, a strange position from a party which has, in any case, been responsible for cultural policy for such a long time. In that case, it's a real turnaround. On the contrary, it is by developing our collections, being able to replenish them and let them live on that we have a good foundation for education and research in the future. This is also how we create access to cultural heritage. I think the collections are much more important than both Ida Karkiainen and myself. It is somewhere they should be there for the next generation and the generation thereafter. There is talk of lowering thresholds. If I remember correctly... maybe I'm quoting wrong... Ida Karkiainen says in her main speech that she wants to see access for more and access across the country. Then you implement a reform aimed at Stockholm's inner city and not attract new visitor groups but just make sure that those who already go, who already have access and have crossed the threshold, do so more times. That is what this reform contributed to. Wouldn't it be better, Ida Karkiainen, at this point to remove the straitjacket for the museums and not just target a lot of Stockholm museums? Instead, we could direct a clear mission to Sweden's museums to reach new visitor groups. Instead, let us use the money for something like that. Then we are aiming for what we want to achieve, instead of taking a seat in the ticket office and regulating the entry requirements. Is it not better, Ida, to look somewhere at how we could achieve this better? I would appeal to the Social Democrats with their long tradition of cultural policy to rethink and think right.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-79	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Olof Lavesson, for the question! When it comes to the specificity of museums, it is important to read the Moderates' exercise on the subject. There it is written that a merger of different museums or to move together today's activities under the same roof risks the specificity of each museum. In fact, I think that politics goes a little beyond the limits of what is about trust in the profession. This is a signal that shows that people believe in the profession and their assessments of location and premises. Here is an important dividing line. We see that this is an assessment that the authority itself must be allowed to make and stand for. I wouldn't call the free entrance reform a straitjacket for the museums. Most museums think it has been a boost for those with more visits. I believe that every museum is delighted with the figures generated by the reform with free admission. We also see that we need to develop it further.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-81	Mr President, I would like to Only Sweden Swedish gooseberries have. So are some winged words in a literary classic of a people without culture with a government without memory, if you get to interpret the government Löfven yes, at least without understanding the importance of nurturing and managing the collective memory in our country. This is an overall conclusion to be drawn when reading the 240-page cultural heritage bill from the Ministry of Culture. The bill teaches us one thing: You should not row there is a unique cultural heritage, in case the opposition does not kick-start – go ahead and react to the formation-free bill that the government has now put on Parliament's table. On this subject, we are going to speak in this House today, and since the subject is of such importance and importance to the Swedish and international cultural heritage and, in the long run, to the Swedish people's right to the history and cohesion of their country, I will mainly stick to the government's legislative proposals and our accompanying motion and announcements on the matter and not go into all our motions in the report, but I encourage reading them. With a background in historical discipline and as the spokesperson of a party that cares about cultural heritage, I dare to say that this is one of the most important, if not the most important, debate this far during this parliamentary term on the questions of the Committee on Culture. So, Mr President, let us take out this eagerly awaited proposal for cultural heritage! It came as a dizzying weather on February with a diffuse cover and breaks of norm criticism, integration hysteria and an expression of contemporary intellectual whims. It is free from community and educational ideals – a foreign bird in the historical museum system but is increasingly common in the Swedish cultural sphere. Culture is a building block and a supporting pillar in terms of how stable we manage to maintain trust and well-being, between people and to authorities and institutions. Culture is the cement that binds the Swedish majority society and weaves immigrants into our collective community and collective memory. Culture is security and tradition, living cultivation and ambition. It is social codes that unite and distinguish. It is customs that draw a picture of who we are. The Swedish Democrats fundamentally welcome a cultural heritage bill that puts the value of cultural heritage on the agenda, as we have long expressed in the political debate. But it is clear that the government in the Cultural Heritage Bill advocates a new order, marked by an ideological break of cultural relativism and national self-denial. The Government writes in the bill that a large labour and refugee migration to Sweden has contributed to an experience of increased cultural heterogeneity in the population. That this is the case is a fact rather than an experience and has contributed strongly to a weaker social and cultural capital. The Government acknowledges that cultural diversity has brought problematic consequences for the general development of knowledge and what is taught regarding, for example, literature and history. One way to strengthen historical knowledge and cultural education is to introduce a cultural cannon in Sweden's schools, which the Swedish Democrats have long advocated but which the government has consistently rejected. How is equivalence to be achieved? It is also clear that the government is deficient in several respects and presents problematic analyses. For example, it is believed that cultural heritage is constantly changing and open to reinterpretation. Certainly, culture and parts of the cultural heritage are changing as it is cultivated, cultivated and traded. At the same time, however, it is fundamental to establish that the cultural heritage consists both of preserved artifacts and memories, which can certainly be reinterpreted from new, coated research findings but which are historical traces in themselves, and of heritage that lives and evolves. The government is also conducting a very contradictory and incoherent discussion of what is defined as cultural heritage. This is expressed when it is argued that the almost contemporary can be defined as cultural heritage only it is regarded as such by people. At the same time, it is said that although almost anything has the potential to become cultural heritage, not all cultural heritage, but some sort of delimitation must be made. I share that assessment. There are possibilities for definitions and demarcations, without which management, regulatory framework, practical priorities and the allocation of financial resources and incentives are made more difficult. There is also great value in conveying what is, for example, unique cultural heritage for Sweden, which strengthens both social capital and cultural community. Lack of clarity creates lostness, while understanding of roots and context creates secure individuals. For months there has been a debate about the view of our classical educational institutions, such as the museum system. In the bill, the government presents a deeply ideological view of museum activities. It is written that museums should contribute to the desirable development of society and that museums should review and challenge those in power for the day. The museums will engage in the social debate, and the new museum law is said to be positive for equality between women and men and for the opportunities to achieve the integration policy objectives. Yeah, you heard me right. The general view is that debate museums and integration policy objectives are more important than museums' core activities, namely the acquisition, care and management of artifacts and historical traces and memories. The government chooses to continue on the culture and education-denial path it has taken in the past, namely to undermine not only our country's cultural heritage, which has been left to us to manage, but also other unique historical heritage, such as those at the State Museums of World Culture, and then primarily the East Asian Museum, which has been on the agenda in recent months. The government expresses the fact that increased immigration into Sweden has contributed to segregation while making proposals that go in the opposite direction to the aspirations of the cultural community we so badly need in our divided country. It's deeply problematic. A major problem is that, in its frustration of not being able to attack a scientific and to some extent conservative sector with credible arguments, it uses cultural heritage institutions as bats for political and ideological purposes, by, for example, giving museums the task of countering segregation and xenophobia – whatever it has to do with collective care. The Museum of World Culture in Gothenburg was established in itself for a political and left-wing liberal purpose when Marita Ulvskog pushed through the proposal for an administrative merger of the Ethnographic, Mediterranean and East Asian Museums, the establishment of a new authority and the construction of the Museum of World Culture in Gothenburg at the expense of the old world famous Museum of Ethnography. The agenda called for museums to play an important role in discussing the opportunities and issues of multicultural society. They must influence our future by participating in the debate on society rather than through the provision of scientific knowledge. It's still alive. The Minister for Culture claims that politicians should not interfere in definitions of cultural heritage. At the same time, they use it as a bat in their own political convictions, as with the red pen in the highest order iron out all the formulations in the Cultural Environment Act that states that Sweden has a national cultural heritage and that it is ours – well worth nurturing, protecting and showing. At the same time, it allows and encourages the breaking-up and transformation of proven structures and collections based on temporary intellectual trends, such as the case at the National Museums of World Culture. What is going on right now is a bureaucratic cultural revolution in order to get new generations of Sweden's people not to feel pride and commitment to a we, but we are all one and the same world, and what is cultural heritage and whose it is in the eyes of the viewer. It is, of course, false and wrong, as there are undoubtedly unique and warm cultural communities and heritage in our country as well. By demeaning given heritage and environments, you also show no appreciation for all Swedes who somehow express interest in or passionate about the culture we inherited from our ancestors and who volunteer efforts to care for this – quite the contrary. It is important to remember that history is our extended memory. With an understanding and knowledge of history, we can see ourselves in a larger context, arrange our thoughts into something coherent completely and feel connected with the genealogy back and forth. The demeaning, or in the worst case the denial, of historical communities is, in the long run, in danger of bringing about collective memory loss, and the rehabilitation of it can be long and painful for a society. We should not expose Sweden to this. The government seems afraid of national community and spirit, but note well: It is not history that creates the conditions for war and dictatorships – it is the lack of history. In the Government's proposal, the most important task of the cultural heritage sector is to promote integration, gender equality and inclusion. But the question is: How do you intend to achieve an inclusive community if you can't define and acknowledge what it is we should feel community about? Protecting the bond with the past is safeguarding the right to think freely. Researchers and cultural workers from the right to the left have participated in the museum debate that has been raging in Svenska Dagbladet for months. According to the Royal Academy of Sciences – speaking of the situation at the National Museums of World Culture, where museums are threatened to merge, artifacts are at risk of being betrayed and research is at risk of suffering – what has happened is that these institutions are about to lose, with the support of the government, or have already almost completely lost their scientific competence. The ability to keep collections available without regard to political economic cycles is decreasing. No group and no society, especially no democracy, can function without some kind of community of thought, a common world of imagination rooted in the past. In the Soviet Union after 1917 and in China after 1949 they tried to create a society without ties back, but soon they had to realize that the society they were trying to create was inextricably intertwined with the past. The government seems to be prepared to take up the same struggle against the people they are appointed to represent, as in their eagerness to merge the Historical Museum, the Armoured Chamber, Skokloster Castle and the Hallwylska Museum into a new authority, it does so with the intention that it will be a decisive force when the story of the nation is reloaded and refilled with new content. In order to cope with all the new impressions, we need something that does not change, something that we do not have to constantly take a stand on. Sweden's history should not be rewritten with political pointers. Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that a majority in Parliament has agreed on six announcements in which we call on the government to go back to the drawing board. Before concluding my speech, I would like to mention the government's impact assessment. In its impact assessment, the Government does not mention the National Property Board. We believe that it is likely that the government's halving of the grant to the National Property Board will have extensive consequences for the agency and the preservation of cultural heritage properties. This is especially the case since SFV has warned that the halving of their funding combined with an expanded assignment and the take-over of properties from the National Heritage Board has not resulted in a sustainable situation for them; it makes it impossible for them to fulfil their commitments. An impact assessment that does not concern a consequence of this magnitude is incomplete. It undermines the credibility of the government's impact assessment, taken together, and makes it impossible for us as decision-makers to feel secure with the government's assessment. The Swedish Democrats therefore believe that a full impact assessment should be carried out and presented. Mr President, I would like to Most of the evidence suggests that one of the Ministry of Culture's orchestrated cultural transformation, with tones of politicisation of the museum system and national cultural self-ironia, will pass the Riksdag with a number of announcements. However, there is a request to listen to large parts of the cultural heritage sphere and reject the bill – it should then be sent back to the drawing board, and then you can come back with a policy for Swedish cultural heritage and not against the same. If you listen to the bourgeois debate in general, there is, as it seems, also support for doing so. The opportunity lies with the Alliance – and the assessment – if you are prepared to act responsibly in opposition and support the Swedish Democrats' request. Or is it content with allowing a red-green cultural heritage policy to go through with a number of calls that we know the government may be negligating? I urge that cultural heritage and the right to political freedom and science be protected, nurtured and demonstrated. I call for the proposal to be rejected and therefore for reservations 1, 9 and 20 to be approved. At the same time, we support all our reservations in the report.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-103	Mr President, I would like to It is a party that cares, says Aron Emilsson. I wonder, who do you care about? Or rather, who do you not care about? You write that culture is the tick that connects the Swedish majority society. Who are included, and who are not included? An answer to that question would have been good.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-105	Mr President, I would like to I can begin by saying that I am delighted that the Social Democrats are committed to cultural heritage issues. For many decades it has been more dedicated to demolishing and distorting cultural environments – it is about our country's physical design and good built-up environment. But it is gratifying that you start to care about the Swedish cultural heritage, if that's the case. We are clear in our follow-up motion, which is comprehensive, and in other cultural heritage-related proposals in the report. We have proposals for extensive efforts to strengthen and develop, for example, the heritage of the Sami indigenous people and the Sami minority through language interventions, which are much more ambitious than the government has presented, but also educational efforts at Umeå University. It is also about collaborating with our Nordic neighbours through the Sami Film Institute in Kautokeino, through efforts for language preservation in the Southern Sami region and through efforts to appoint a Swedish main university for Sami issues, for example. We can read about this in our proposals. You're welcome to do that.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-107	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting, Aron Emilsson, that you mention the Sami community, because it was not so long ago that there was a statement from the Swedish Democrats that the Sami do not belong to Sweden's community or Swedish society. It is interesting that you choose to go in that direction. But the honourable Member does not answer my question: who is not concerned? If you wish a community, I wonder how it goes with the exclusive policy of excluding certain groups from libraries, for example. How does it go with your alignment of cultural heritage, for example through the creation of a cultural cannon? Why do you want to close the Museum of World Culture in Gothenburg? How does it go with creating a community in society?
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-109	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the good questions! Yes, in many respects we are strengthening the cultural community. We have proposed a historical cultural policy reform in the form of cultural pilots in all Swedish municipalities, for example, which will pilot not least new arrivals and immigrants into the Swedish majority society and the rich cultural and cultural heritage life that we have around our municipalities and landscapes. There the government has not gone along, and I wonder why the government does not. Does the government really care about strengthening cohesion and community? Nor have I proposed any efforts to exclude any individual from libraries. On the other hand, the Swedish Democrats have presented a study on how to link certain administrative services to citizenship, which is in line with the fact that welfare and tax-funded activities must have a clear connection to citizenship in order to function in the long term. The reason why we are proposing the closure of the Museum of World Culture in Gothenburg is the one I mentioned earlier in the pulpit. Because there is a museum that is run by political and ideological doctrines rather than by being a science institution and an educational institution – near a university, which means potential – we need to strengthen those museums that are actually based on protecting, nurturing and displaying their collections within the authority. It is the Museum of Far Eastern Antiquities, the Mediterranean Museum and the Museum of Ethnography. The reason why many Gothenburgers do not visit the Museum of World Culture in Gothenburg is that the museum feels political and ideological, not like a culture-oriented museum.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-112	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's oldest preserved written material that highlights a longer course is Erikskrönikan. It was written in the 1320s or possibly 1330s. It is an important historical document, and it is also an example of falsification of history. It was written when Magnus Eriksson was king of the country. The clear purpose was to portray his father, Duke Erik Magnusson, as a hero. To believe in memories of ancient times, that is to say, to get glory and glory of their present time from a glorious past, is thus not a new phenomenon. When Sweden became a great power in Europe in the 17th century, a desire emerged not only to bring out individuals or families but to give the whole nation a proud past. In 163 0 Gustav II Adolf established a position as a national antiquarie, which can be seen as the starting point for Swedish cultural heritage policy. During the Great Power period, Göticism also grew. There were myths about a fantastic Swedish antiquity. But that scientific perspectives did not even have an impact in the university world, Olof Rudbeck's Göticist writing Atlantica is a clear example of. In 1786 we received our first public museum when guidelines were developed for the Museum of Natural History. However, in the 19th and early 19th centuries, there were two widely differing views on the role of museums. One side said that museums would act in the interests of the nation and highlight what was beneficial for their own country. The other side argued that museums would, on the contrary, highlight the truth on the basis of current scientific evidence. Göticism stood back a little during the 1700s but grew strong during the 1800s and during the 1930s came to be exploited by the Swedish Nazi movement in order to give legitimacy to its own political agenda. To this day, we see examples of forces trying to take power over cultural heritage in order to strengthen their own ideology. That is why three important principles are laid down in the Cultural Heritage Bill. The first principle is that museums are independent authorities that do not have to follow political interests or wishes in terms of exhibition activities. The second principle is that museums should build on knowledge. They're supposed to be close to research. If your own research is not carried out at the museum, the collections should nevertheless be arranged in a way so that they can be used for scientific purposes. The third principle is that cultural heritage should be accessible to everyone throughout our country. You should not have to travel to Stockholm to take part of a Swedish cultural heritage. This requires collaboration between museums, that is to say, that state museums can lend objects to regional museums and that regional museums can donate objects to each other so that as much as possible becomes as public as possible and is not locked into archives. Those who really create accessibility for everyone to the cultural heritage are of course the museum profession. It's a difficult balance. It is about designing exhibitions that on the one hand are interesting for those who have deep knowledge of a subject but who want to learn more and on the other hand are interesting for those who have no prior knowledge at all and see something for the first time. It's about simplifying without distorting. I am deeply impressed by how well many of our museums succeed in balancing and really become urgent for everyone. Accessibility for all also means that people with different types of disabilities can take part in the activities of museums. On the contrary, we see that there are major shortcomings here today. There are shortcomings that need to be addressed if we are to live up to the objective of making cultural heritage accessible to all. The fact that we are now getting a museum team in place and that we are improving the Cultural Environment Act in no way means that cultural heritage policy has reached the end of the road and that we can now sit back and settle down. On the contrary! A major step is being taken in the right direction, which can now be followed by further steps in the right direction. One such step must be taken is to improve the conditions for moving cultural heritage. I myself have raised a motion on the matter, and a majority of the committee proposes that it be partially approved. This is not in any way a criticism of the content of the government's proposal, but is precisely an indication of one of the steps that must now be taken. On the other hand, it is perplexing that the majority of the committees believe that this can be done quickly. I think the question is more complex than that. But we may add different values to the concept as a matter of urgency. Even more perplexing is that in the end the bourgeois parties do not really stand for the perspective of keeping arm's length between cultural heritage policy and exhibition activities. On the contrary, an announcement is made, which may mean that you are there with your fingers in the jam jar and restrict the museum's ability to develop the exhibition activities. I request the approval of reservation 3. In conclusion, let me be personal. Of course, all of us who participate in the debate have a broad commitment to cultural heritage issues, and many of us are a little passionate about certain areas – which we have also heard in the debate in the past. One of those areas where I myself get started a little extra is the early music. But the intangible cultural heritage is not so easy to capture. It is therefore extremely good that legislation treats the material heritage as the intangible cultural heritage and gives them the same legitimacy. A preserved instrument from the 17th century does not automatically mean that we know how the music sounded performed by Anders Düben, for example, who came from Amsterdam to Stockholm in 1620 and helped to develop Swedish art music. I'm still sticking to the 17th century. I initially criticised the lack of scientific perspectives of Göticism. Instead, let me pay tribute to Queen Kristina, who was really not afraid of cultural exchanges or wanted to lock up Swedish cultural tradition. On the contrary, she invited scientists and artists from different parts of Europe to come to Sweden. It was people who worked in Sweden and naturally left their mark on the culture. Today they are obvious parts of Swedish cultural heritage. That is still the case today. What we can see today as new phenomena or odd phenomena in Swedish culture can be seen tomorrow as obvious parts of Swedish cultural heritage. One attempt to define cultural heritage is to say that cultural heritage is traces of the past that have meaning and value for those of us who operate here today. Cultural heritage policy is based on ensuring that the tracks are not erased for the future but are preserved for future generations – while at the same time being accessible to all who operate here and now. My conviction is that the more knowledge we gain on cultural heritage issues, the more we strengthen both people's security and tolerance.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-130	Mr President, I would like to In its cultural heritage bill – from the party and department to which Niclas Malmberg belongs through its environmental party commitment – the Government has announced that there should be a cultural environmental strategy in the country for the relevant authorities and actors in the country. The cultural environment will be on the agenda, and a national strategy for how to manage culture in the future will be developed. The Government and the other parties have allowed the reduction in funding to the National Property Board to remain at a halve from their previous operating budget. At the same time, the National Property Board – which has the national responsibility for our cultural heritage properties and which has taken over properties from the National Heritage Office and received an expanded assignment – now claims that the renovation of the Royal Palace of Stockholm can hardly be completed. The National Property Board also says that even less will be able to maintain its cultural conservation efforts for other properties if this budget persists and you do not get increased funding and better conditions for being able to care for and protect Swedish cultural environments. My question is: how can a cultural environment strategy be pursued when a national authority responsible for the issues has been given half the resources to care for, protect and demonstrate our national cultural environments? And in what way do you keep arm's length away from cultural heritage values when you politicise the museums to become debate museums rather than knowledge institutions?
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-135	Mr President, I would like to Aron Emilsson first asked a complex question and then a simpler one. I'll start with the difficult one, which concerns the National Property Board. It is, of course, the case that we need sufficient resources to preserve important cultural environments. At the same time, we know that the National Property Board has had major internal problems, as has been pointed out by the Swedish National Audit Office. As I see it, these problems must be resolved before the National Property Board can be provided with additional resources. However, the issue is complex. The second question concerns how we view strengthening the independence of museums and strengthening their role in acting on the basis of knowledge. The Swedish democrats oppose this and want a rejection of the whole bill. The Swedish Democrats are going in the opposite direction and do not want to create these conditions for the museums, which is completely logical based on how Swedish democrats around the country have acted. They have wanted to go in and stop exhibitions, because they think that museums have exhibitions that are not in line with their own ideology. The Swedish Democrats have had problems with the fact that they do not want to let the museums act professionally. When the Swedish Democrats now also want to stop a bill that is about taking on the professionalism of museums, I cannot interpret it in any other way than that the Swedish Democrats are afraid that the museums will have this independent role. The Swedish Democrats want to come in and control the activities of museums.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-139	Mr President, I would like to There is black on white – it is only to compare the Swedish Democrats' follow-up motion to the Cultural Heritage Bill with the Cultural Heritage Bill itself. The bill states that museums should be an active player in the public debate. In other respects, direct assignments have been given to, for example, State Museums of World Culture to promote integration efforts and to combat segregation and xenophobia. All other museum activities are burdened with this, without being able to care for, protect and show collections and collection activities, which is the real scientific purpose of museums. In our exercise, however, there are no texts that express the ambition or intention – not even between the lines – to want to control museums politically and ideologically, as has happened with, for example, the Museum of World Culture in Gothenburg. The Swedish Arts Council and other cultural institutions have been tasked with reviewing how they can break norms and perceptions of who we are and who we should be, rather than focusing on core business. We have proposed actual changes to wordings in the Government's proposed Museum Act, where we would rather include clauses and texts that museums should be knowledge-oriented and scientific and that they should be based on knowledge-based foundations – not political or ideological doctrines. It would also secure the museums against a Swedish democratic political influence, if that is what Niclas Malmberg is afraid of. In those parts of the country where we have criticized exhibitions that have been based directly on slander against individual parties, it has not been about us wanting to go in and stop individual exhibitions. Rather, we have wanted to take a line on how to behave when tax-funded institutions take a biased position vis-à-vis clients.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-145	Mr President, I would like to The entire speech by Aron Emilsson, and the entire reservation by the Swedish Democrats, is about segregation. You want to define a group as Swedish, while other groups are not quite as fine and do not really belong to the same community. The problem is that the Swedish Democrats have that starting point. The Swedish Democrats and Aron Emilsson also show a startling ignorance of history. It is not known that history has been written for purposes and that science must now look to the objective in order to find the truth. Aron Emilsson says history has not created any wars. On the contrary: History has created infinitely many wars around the world because one has lived in a hatred between different groups. If we do not build on tolerance, we risk undermining security. The Swedish Democrats say that the fact that Swedish democrats around the country have wanted to stop exhibitions has been about wanting to stop defamation. It's not like that. We see many examples of the fact that we do not want to release exhibitions that talk about diversity and tolerance. See for yourself how the Second Vice-President of the Riksdag Björn Söder acted in Lund in 2007.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-149	Mr President, I would like to Even if it rains in Stockholm today, there have been some really lovely spring days – or should we perhaps call them early summer days – in large parts of our country. It was also noticed this weekend, when I met some richly nice old cars on the roads, b aland another MGB from late 60's. It was some beautiful moving cultural heritage, which gilded mine and certainly several others' day. Many thanks to you unknown ones who aerated your eyestones this weekend, so that the rest of us could take part of them. I would also like to take the opportunity to tip you off who might have missed all the old vehicles that were out this weekend: D on June 6, on our national day, M ot orhistoriska dagen is arranged, with events all over the country. These events are dedicated to the mobile cultural heritage, which engages many in our country. This could be about a moped, about a tractor or maybe about that car you dreamed of as a child. It may be a steam engine or an aircraft of historical value. It could be a sailboat from the turn of the last century, when the 19th century became the 20th century, or a plastic boat from the 1970s. The common thing is that these are vehicles that have been used and that have transported people and goods around our country. These are history carriers from a time when our society became increasingly mobile. Every weekend and almost every everyday evening during the bright season there are events around our country where the moving cultural heritage is recognised and – not least – used. Many people spend much of their free time preserving these jewels for posterity. It is nonprofit forces that renovate cars, boats and airplanes and run museum railways and museums for these jewels. At the same time, it creates jobs and business e in many ways. These include the sale of spare parts, ekanics, workshops and boatyards with specialist knowledge and tourist destinations that generate trade, restaurant visits and hotel overnight stays. This is often created in small towns and in rural areas. In addition to the important preservation of the mobile cultural heritage, it is also part of a living countryside and an opportunity for the whole country to live. But this work has not always received the appreciation that it is worth. There are cases where political decisions and regulatory interpretations by authorities have been obstacles and even cultural heritage objects have been lost. In order to preserve the mobile cultural heritage, it also needs to be used and developed. The mobile cultural heritage must be seen and recognised as the natural and obvious part of the cultural heritage environment and our common cultural heritage as it is. This is part of our history that would disappear if not all the non-profit forces existed. That is why it is now incredibly important that the government listens to the announcement that the Committee on Culture proposes that the Parliament directs the urgent development of legislation establishing the responsibilities and responsibilities of the authorities for hist oric means of transport by land, sea and air. The aim is to ensure, in the exercise of their authority, that the mobile cultural heritage is not prevented, intentionally or unintentionally, from being used and that it is not damaged or even destroyed. Mr President, I would like to It is important to preserve the cultural heritage, but it is also important to preserve the competence of the cultural heritage. Knowledge takes time to build up and can easily be put at risk by, for example, merging museums. Therefore, it is now of the utmost importance that the government listens to the Culture Committee's announcement that the government should acknowledge the specific nature of each museum based on its collections and the museum's task of making the collections available. There are over 1,700 museums in Sweden. Many of these are, of course, non-profit or privately driven. The museums in our country attract nearly 27 million visitors each year, while employing around 6,000 annual workers and generating about SEK 5 1⁄2 billion in revenue. This shows that a museum can be important for a municipality's labour market, entrepreneurship and economy by the visitors who come from other parts of Sweden, and sometimes from other parts of the world, during their visit also eating, shopping and perhaps spending the night in the resort. This makes museums an important component of the growing tourism industry. There are several museums and places in our country that are associated with and dedicated to both nationally and internationally famous people. The Alfred Nobel and Nobel Prize is one of several clear examples of an internationally famous person being linked historically to a specific place in our country, in this case Björkborn in Karlskoga. Yet most international visitors probably associate Nobel with Stockholm's city. And Stockholm certainly has an important role in the history of Alfred Nobel and not least the Nobel Prize, but in this context the state should have a responsibility to also show the whole story, where Björkborn and Karlskoga are a very important part. The state responsibility for cultural heritage and our history must not stay at the Stockholm border. We are a country with many international names. In addition to Nobel, I can mention Astrid Lindgren, Ingmar Bergman and Selma Lagerlöf, just to name a few. They are people who represent cultural heritage that we should be proud of and that can also manifest in different places in our country that are deeply associated with the person – places that lie outside our capital. Mr President, I would like to The museums play an important role in education. It is about that if we do not know our history it will be difficult to understand our present and interpret our future. When I worked as a teacher in the upper secondary school in Norrtälje, visits to both the then Roslagsmuseet and Konsthallen were important parts of my teaching. Today I can see that there could have been even deeper cooperation between the school, my teaching and these institutions. In a broader perspective, I can see the need for a policy that reinforces and clarifies the link between history teaching at school and the work of museums. There is a clear need to explore how cooperation between museums' activities and school education can be strengthened. Mr President, I would like to Today, much of the national expertise in the field of culture is largely located in big cities and perhaps mainly in the capital. We miss out on a lot of the talent and creativity that exists in the country and that should benefit more people, and that is not what we think is sustainable. Instead, we in the Center Party want to find a model that makes us highlight excellence where it is located in different places around the country, and this should be done in collaboration between the regions and the state. We have proposed a new model for national cultural policy as a whole. It is about building on the ideas that have made the collaborative model so successful and making a similar model for the national level. At the same time, the state cultural institutions, such as our state museums and their activities, need to be made more accessible throughout the country. This can be done by making the collections available digitally and through good conditions for lending objects. But it can also be about the institutions, the museums, being commissioned to compile exhibitions that can tour around the country. Why not, for example, arrange lectures and exhibitions adapted for community farms, sobriety lodges and Folkets Hus? We need to find ways to allow more people to access the museums' collections and expertise, while also providing many other benefits. For example, schools could be used as well as other municipal institutions, which would then have a greater opportunity to take part in the cultural heritage and history. Therefore, the possibility of placing more permanent activities of state museums in more locations in the country should also be reviewed. This would be a better way to make our cultural heritage available for more than, for example, free admission for adults at the museums in Stockholm City. With this, Mr President, I would like to conclude by supporting all the common reservations of the Alliance, but I choose for time to apply only for reservation No 6.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-173	Mr President, I would like to Culture is an interpretation of us, of our time, our past and our visions. Cultural heritage is not only about history and past, but also about present and future. Knowledge of both contemporary events and the underlying history contributes to our understanding of who we are today and how we can shape our future. To dare to believe in the future, the realization that our society is always changing is crucial. The social cultural heritage responsibility must include the entire cultural heritage, such as women's cultural heritage, the folk culture of the local community, the treasures of theatres and film history, museum objects, the cultural heritage of national minorities and immigrant groups and the history of the whole class society from different perspectives. Lessons from history and access to a living cultural heritage – to the whole complex wealth of different experiences that are our history – provide us with the necessary compass for us to be able to orient ourselves in both our present and our future. Museums and archives are examples of populous institutions and carriers of our cultural heritage, institutions of our collective memory, arenas of cultural encounters and forms of expression. Our cultural heritage institutions will be used in the search for our history and as arenas to bring it to life and showcase. Museums and archives, using modern technology, should be made open dynamic centres of culture and research for today's and tomorrow's users. They should encourage professional research on our history but also encourage and support initiatives from groups of ordinary locals, associations and school classes looking for their own and their community's history. Sweden is not a country that is only Swedish and has never been so. Borders have been moved and immigration as well as emigration have always been ongoing, and invaluable contributions to our culture and our country's development have been made. The so-called Swedishness is somewhat modern. At the beginning of the 19th century, in connection with the 1809 war and a new form of government, there was a profound change and a whole new identity was created. The new Sweden that was created was not only something geographically and constitutionally new, but it was also a crucial question of mental change. Poetry, language and history had to largely define the new Swedishness. Nationalist efforts to build monolingual states in a multicultural world have, however, meant repression of minorities – so also in Sweden where both the languages themselves, such as Finnish, Meänkieli and Sami, and the people who spoke these languages suffered great oppression in the creation of the new Sweden. As a result, many stories and voices were silenced then but remain silent even today. It is therefore essential that different voices are heard and that different experiences are recognised in the publicly supported culture. It is not to ideologicalize, politicise or construct, but to make visible all of us who shape the cultural heritage of the future. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party is generally in favour of the proposals presented by the government in its proposal. However, the assessments presented by the government and the subsequent changes announced in the bill are more mixed. One of these concerns the working life museums. The working life museums tell about, portray and liven in different ways how work, working life and, to some extent, life alongside work have looked like through history. Today there are about 1,500 working life museums in Sweden. They are largely run by non-profit-working staff, and their collections are very extensive. To broaden the allocation to the working life museums so that it also includes what is called other non-profit cultural heritage work would be unfortunate and directly bad because, in our opinion, it risks giving the working life museums less money and thus less opportunities to carry out their important activities. We are also sceptical about the fact that the National Exhibitions will be phased out as an authority and that several of the tasks will be transferred and placed in the National Heritage Office in connection with it. Both operate in the same sector but today have completely different competences and entry into the cultural heritage work. It is positive that the government wants to promote increased collaboration between cultural heritage institutions and the school system, but we believe that it will be difficult for the National Heritage Office to bring about any major change in this area on its own. The school's possibilities to use the museums disappeared when the school started with net time instead of gross time. Over the night, the number of school tours decreased considerably. The Left Party therefore believes that a clear mandate should also be given to the school in order, for example, to increase the number of school tours and improve collaboration. We are pleased that the majority in the committee has agreed that the government should investigate how a mission to the school heads can be designed in order to strengthen cooperation. We also welcome the proposal for a new museum law, which sets out the freedom, role and function of museums in a clearer and more long-term way. The second paragraph of the bill specifies what is meant by a museum. Several consultation bodies criticised the study's proposed definition and indicated that it would be better if the International Council of Museums, Icom, developed and established definition were used instead. It is true that the Government responds to these comments by clarifying the description and presenting a legislative text proposal that is partly different from that of the investigation. However, the Left Party believes that it is not enough but wants the government to come back with a proposal in which the definition of what a museum is more clearly corresponds to ICOM's definition. Mr President, I would like to Today, films are made and shown almost exclusively digitally. The analogue film technology is on its way out. The Film Institute's archive contains 2 600 Swedish feature films and over 6,000 short films. If future generations are to be able to take part in our cinematic culture v, from the late 1800s to the 2000s, it must be digitised. The Left Party believes that Swedish cinematic cultural heritage is as important as other cultural heritage and must not decay. Nor must cinematic cultural heritage be inaccessible to the public. With digitization, films can be shown in all digital cinemas, on the web, via DVD and TV and more. In short, it is a historic opportunity to make cultural heritage available on a large scale, while there is a historical risk that most of the film heritage will be lost if this chance is not exploited. At the rate of digitisation of film heritage today, it will be several decades before it is completed. In addition, the overall assessment is that the equipment required for large-scale digitisation projects will not be available for more than a very limited period of time in the future due to the lack of spare parts and the possibility of service. In the relatively near future, skills shortages can also become a problem. The Left Party has been raising this issue for many years, and we are keen that decisive action be taken immediately. It is therefore hopeful that the majority of the committee also sees the importance of speeding up digitalisation. Mr President, I would like to Initially, I raised the importance of allowing different voices to be heard and those who have been silenced to come forward. Therefore, we believe that it is of great importance that the government take steps to ensure that both the languages and the stories that existed before 1809 and those that were added later are given the same obvious space when people's memories are to be recorded and documented. With that, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 14.
i-Ujc8vhejrmeU5ZEuhn1quF	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support all the joint alliance reservations and Liberals' reservations in the report, but for time, I only support reservation 2 in paragraph 1 and reservation 6 in paragraph 4. Mr President, I would like to Our cultural heritage is the result of international and domestic impulses, old traditions and new forms of expression, the desire to preserve the old and the search for the new. From this concoction, what we today call Swedish culture has emerged. Through experience, knowledge, people-to-people contacts and historical events, our culture is changing over time and all the time. The word melting crucible is sometimes used to describe the processes, and it is very much a relevant description. By mixing it differently, we produce alloys that describe it equally. Preserving cultural heritage means preserving knowledge, ideas, objects and environments that reflect the life and social forms of the past. Cultural heritage provides perspectives on our present time, new ideas on how we can shape our future and the strength to be able to meet the new and alien. Mr President, I would like to We Liberals have previously questioned the mission that the State Historical Museums and the State Museums of World Culture should work for a knowledge-based and reflective history writing, as announced by the government in the budget bill. One such mission, Mr President, should be to kick open an open door. Contributing to a knowledge-based and reflective history is probably already the core business of all museums in our elongated country. However, in the light of other suggestions, such as the idea that a museum authority for the entire historical development in Sweden a decisive force when the story of the nation is reloaded and refilled with new content, it becomes more troubling. As most people in the debate have already said, museums have the task of acquiring, preserving and promoting their collections for the protection of cultural heritage and not being guided by temporary intellectual trends. In the age of alternative facts, in which we live now, the role of museums becomes more important than ever. As a folk educator, they should spread knowledge, and one of the main tasks is to inform, not to raise. The norm criticism that only replaces old standards with new ones is ominous and counterproductive. Good solutions to today's major societal challenges always come when people think freely, not when they think right. We therefore welcome the fact that the government in the bill is so clear that politics should have arm's length distance to the museums. However, such commitments require not only words but also active action by the government to show that their arms are not too short. Mr President, I would like to We Liberals partly share the government's view that the internal organisation or choice of premises of individual museums should not be decided by the House. But that does not mean, in our opinion, that the owner should evade his ownership and allow mergers, transfers or reorganisations between individual activities to take place without interference or control. Arms length is a good concept, but if it is something that you should not stay away from, it is precisely the ownership issues. This is particularly the case when individual collections or activities are threatened or are at risk of being transferred to locked warehouses. I am thinking, of course, of the debate on the various activities in Stockholm, in particular, in the National Museums of World Culture: Ethnographic, East Asian and Mediterranean Museums. We object for exactly the same reason that the parliamentary bond is lifted when it comes to the authority of the Royal Armoury and Skokloster Palace with the Hallwylska Museum Foundation. You're supposed to do your own business, but you shouldn't risk gatherings. Mr President, I would like to The problems highlighted by the debate on the National Museums of World Culture are a clear example of how the government's ambitions to achieve economies of scale by merging different museums can be very wrong. Instead of a museum with economic problems and three that are doing quite well in this respect, one can get a large museum organization on starvation. The same also applies, of course, to how well museums succeed in their knowledge mission. Hence, Mr President, the Liberals' request for approval comes to reservation 2. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say a few words about Sweden's role in the world and our responsibility for the world's common cultural heritage. Whoever loses his story also loses himself. The destruction of cultural heritage is part of any totalitarian ideology, and no genocide has ever been completed without a cultural cleansing. We in this hall are too young to remember 1945 and the terrible years that came before, but at the Jewish museum in Warsaw, which I visited some time ago, there are pictures of hundreds of beautiful synagogues. They were gathering places for entire communities, as we will never see again. The Nazis wanted to wipe out all traces of Judaism from European society. The location of synagogues in Warsaw, Vienna, Berlin and other cities showed the dialogue between cultures that characterize sophisticated civilizations. For exactly the same reason, the conquest of the Syrian desert city of Palmyra was particularly important for the terror organization Daish. They wanted to destroy a people and its history. As Daish starts to lose its hold in Iraq and Syria, it expands in the lawless Libya, which has caused the International Museum Council to sound loud. There are also unique UNESCO world heritage that is now in danger of being devastated, and some have already been devastated. Last autumn the ICC, the International Criminal Court, for the first time condemned the destruction of cultural heritage as a war crime. According to the 1954 Hague Convention, which Sweden has signed, destruction of a people's cultural heritage is considered a crime against all humanity. The government must work to hold the guilty to account. Sweden must also increase support for the individual archaeologists, artists, authors and other artists and cultural workers in the regions concerned. Liberals want aid funds to be used in the fight to save our common cultural heritage and our common history to our common future.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-217	Mr President, I would like to I agree with all the reservations expressed by the Alliance and the Christian Democrats, but for time to come I only support reservations 6 and 20. We are debating cultural heritage issues. The cultural heritage area has emerged as a policy area of its own. Let me start with a quote from Tage Danielsson: If you refuse to look back and do not dare look forward, you have to watch out. We have a history back and visions ahead. It's all connected. Yesterday is over, tomorrow no one has seen, but today is a day of opportunity. History is written by those who win, said Winston Churchill. Perhaps one can say that history is written by different interests. To get some perspective, I have enjoyed listening to last year's cultural heritage debate, where I did not have the opportunity to participate myself but was replaced by Eva Wallin for the Christian Democrats. You have to be a bit of a nerd to listen through the whole debate, but it gave me some reflections. The debate, I think, breathed some waiting for the cultural heritage bill that would eventually come from the government. In the debate, the Green Party made a critical review and questioned Johann Sebastian Bach as the author of his work, which I think was very brave. The Center Party highlighted the cultural environment linked to housing, the Liberals raised LGBTQ issues and housing, and the Moderates highlighted the government's unilateral Stockholm focus on free admission to museums. The Left Party was not represented. The Social Democrats highlighted some recent history and history of the labour movement and the women's movement in the early 1900s. The Swedish Democrats spoke most about national identity and church buildings. One can say that the description of the cultural heritage by all parties confirms my thesis that history is written on the basis of different interests and that how we describe our cultural heritage has to do with what we ourselves derive from political identity. This also applies, of course, to my own view of cultural heritage. The debate a year ago is now history, and today we have the cultural heritage bill from the government to debate. These include a new museum law, how the state should take responsibility for its museums and how independent museums should be in relation to the state power. There is also a legislative proposal to amend the Cultural Environment Act. We have six different announcements from the alliance parties. For the uninitiated, I can explain that an announcement in the Swedish Parliament is a decision in which the Riksdag communicates its opinion to the Government. The Government, in turn, will respond to Parliament's decisions. The recent announcements from the Alliance include the specificity of museums, museums as part of industrial policy, inter alia linked to the tourism industry, transportation from the past, such as vintage cars – it was great to hear about the old moving Americans who have been out this weekend, the so-called mobile cultural heritage – and digitisation of archives, among other things. These are some examples. Mr President, I would like to I have been teaching history for many years and therefore want to put forward a historical intellectual perspective, which I think should be given a little more space in the bill. The Alliance parties have an announcement under the point Cultural Heritage and School. In the alliance motion, we write that a much clearer emphasis should be placed on the core values of the curriculum. What does the school curriculum say? Under the heading of the School's values and mission are the following, and this is the first chapter of the curriculum: Inviolability of human life, freedom and integrity of the individual, equal value of all people, equality between women and men, and solidarity with weak and vulnerable are the values that school should express and convey. In line with the ethics of Christian tradition and Western humanism, this is done through the individual's education of justice, generosity, tolerance and responsibility. School education shall be non-confessional. Mr President, I would like to We fully agree that the school should be non-confessional. But as far as our cultural heritage, our roots, are concerned, I am surprised that no one takes seriously the importance of Western humanism and Christian tradition. One goes, as it were, in circles around this. There is talk of important things such as church buildings, cultural objects, mapping of sheltered buildings and so on. But I'm saying that the immaterial gets too little space. And Christian tradition is not mentioned as a concept at all. Together with Western humanism, Christian ethics and values have played a crucial role as cultural bearers and shapers of our democracy. The fact that it is not mentioned in the report has led me to produce a so-called special opinion from the Christian Democrats. The role of the church and the Christian faith in the history of Sweden does not apply to a specific sector of society, but it was the philosophy of life that characterized everything: art, culture, education, health care, politics and so on. No part of Swedish society is thus unaffected by Christianity. A concrete example of the institutional significance of Christian tradition in relation to human dignity is the construction of poor care and health care – the welfare institutions of that time – from the 17th century onwards. For Sweden's modern history, it may be added that the democratic breakthrough took place under the influence of Swedish free churches, not least Baptistism and the Mission League. They were eager for freedom of speech and religion. The parishes were also the expression of democracy-trained grass-roots organisations. Only from the middle of the 20th century, when the welfare state was created, does the state take greater responsibility for social issues. At the same time, the strong welfare state reduces the social relevance of churches. But what happens in the late 1900s and early 2000s is that new social challenges, combined with weakening of the welfare state, occur, and then the importance of the church increases again to meet the social challenges of society. The information society in which we live today, where our brain is supposed to be able to handle 3,000 messages every day – but I do not know how it works for myself – can possibly explain that Christian ethics is also being forgotten in a government bill. There's so much coming in all the time. But in the past, when there was a long way between the villages and the people, the Christian ethics and values were the kitty of society – justice, generosity, humanity, tolerance and responsibility, as expressed in the school law. I believe that the Christian tradition should have had its place also in the 240-page cultural heritage bill. Mr President, I would like to Digitalisation has for many years meant that an already existing cultural heritage can also be made available online. I shall conclude my speech by saying that we were some who visited the Archives Week on Gotland a couple of weeks ago. It was not unexpected that the importance of digitalisation for our common cultural heritage was highlighted there. It's not just about filing what happened earlier in history. Here we believe from the alliance parties that the government misses an important point when it comes to prioritising cultural heritage in support of future research and education. Cultural heritage is not just about looking back. It is also about the courage to look forward. For democracy, which must be won in every new generation, our common cultural heritage is so vitally important. We can describe it in different ways from different starting points. But what unites are democratic values on which we can build the future together.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-237	Mr President, I would like to I thank Roland Utbolt for quoting from my speech in last year's debate. But I'm sure that quotes will be correct. And I did not question in any way that Johann Sebastian Bach had composed all of his works. However, new research shows that he has not actually composed all the works that have previously been ascribed to him. Johann Sebastian Bach is Baroque's foremost composer, in my opinion. But he has also been attributed works that were not his. Why did I put it out there? Well, I did that to exemplify that what we have believed has ultimately proved to be a truth has not. New scientific findings are coming. Science is precisely about reconsidering previous truths, questioning and sometimes actually arriving at new positions. I am convinced that Roland Utbolt also understands this. The Swedish Democrats show with their speech that they do not understand it, but believe that history is written once and for all. But the story is written about when new findings emerge. I thank you for the fact that the Christian Democrats and the other alliance parties are behind every comma in the draft museum law. At the same time, however, I find it troubling when, among others, the Christian Democrats highlight an announcement about the fact that one wants to nail down the particularities of museums in some way. We know that museums must also be able to develop on the basis of the building of collections. When you expand your collections, you find that new things are interesting, and you must also have the freedom to develop these parts. My question to Roland Utbolt is: Can't you see that it can be a problem if you go in too clearly from a political point of view and want to define what a museum should actually be defined as?
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-241	Mr President, I would like to I thank Niclas Malmberg for the question. It is amazingly nice to get into the world and history of music, because I have done my years at the School of Music and have also studied music science. I think you, Niclas Malmberg, are absolutely right that you should be critical of sources. That, of course, is the case. You got a point there. Perhaps I exaggerated a little bit in my speech that Johann Sebastian Bach should not have written his works. So this is great. Source criticism is very important, not least for students today, so that you learn it. I fully agree with that. As far as our announcements are concerned, it is sometimes expressed as minor adjustments. Someone mentioned that we are broadly in agreement. But it is not really in harmony with the truth. It's actually a little bit more than minor adjustments. As I described it, this is going to go to the government to provide for this. When you think about the specific nature of the museums, I think about what Björn Wiechel mentioned last year, namely Lycksele Forest Museum. When I heard the debate from last year, it occurred to me that this was a typical museum that struggles and toils to try to get attention from among us Members. Now some of us have been there. But this is, in fact, about the fact that there are very special and important museums that will be able to be highlighted in a new way so that new groups of visitors will have the opportunity to take part in them.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-245	Mr President, I would like to Roland Utbolt and I are colleagues in the music science industry, so to speak, so the discussion about music science may continue to take place elsewhere. I'm going back to the speciality of the museums. I am not really worried about what Roland Utbolt wants to achieve with this announcement, but by shifting the focus from the professionalisation of museums to the fact that it is politicians who should have the mandate to make the decisions, one opens up great risks. Museums must be able to develop as science advances its positions. I take the Old Uppsala Museum as an example. The museum builds its collections much on the objects that have been found so far, and when it comes to the more violent side of the Vikings, the history description has been written about very much in recent times when there have been findings that also highlight other aspects of the Vikings. When you change the exhibitions there will be new perspectives in them, and it is a big problem if someone wants to limit this from a political point of view. I am concerned that the Alliance does not see that it is opening a door to a dangerous development when it suddenly collaborates with the Swedish Democrats on an announcement. We know that the Swedish Democrats have a very clear desire to politicise cultural heritage, and it is therefore worrying that the alliance parties are working together with the Swedish Democrats on the very issue of cultural heritage. Otherwise, however, I am pleased that the Alliance supports just every comma in the draft museum team.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-250	Mr President, I would like to I do not see the conflict between professionalism and specificity. It must be possible to make it work together, so to speak. What we feel strongly about are the very ones we experience, very many museums that may not really get part of the public museum world. There are an enormous number of museums that make huge contributions; I was at one in Bäckefors, a town in Dalsland, where of course they also struggle to highlight their particular nature. We think it is very important that the government also sees all the museums that make great efforts around. Olof Lavesson described what it means, not only when it comes to the number of visitors – that it gets a boost – but also for the large number of people who get involved, involved and employees in this context. Let me conclude by saying that museums have a great impact on the tourism industry. While we go into another exercise, it is important for every locality and for every museum there to know that they are of great importance for a living tourism industry.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-253	Mr President, I would like to I love culture. I love education. I love our common Swedish cultural heritage. I have always felt a tremendous awe and fascination with the Swedish cultural heritage. It is an incredible source of knowledge, education and culture. It's one way to understand who we are and why we've become who we are. By reading stories about people living under conditions of life we can't imagine opening up an understanding of our history – and thus our present. What is cultural heritage? It is prints from our history that are reflected in buildings, works of art, objects and customs. It is sometimes reflected in our view of the world, in our ideas and ideals, in our language and patterns of life. Cultural heritage is found in the art we enjoy. Cultural heritage has been formed for a long time. Throughout history it has been shaped by people together, in interaction with our surroundings. The Swedish cultural heritage is not a fixed matter from a past – it is a living heritage that continues to develop when we use it with the care and respect the cultural heritage deserves. What is included in the Swedish cultural heritage? It's a delicate task to decide. Anyone who claims to know with certainty hardly shows the respect it deserves. The selection and interpretation of cultural heritage is not a simple matter, and that is precisely why it is a matter for experts. I personally have my favorites, such as my favorite poems. I have an idea of what sculptures I think are the most beautiful that Swedish history has brought. But one person who should definitely not establish what belongs to the cultural heritage is Sweden's Minister for Culture. I am Minister of State in the Swedish Government, but not part of the cultural area's expertise. Our major task as a politician is to create the best conditions for our Swedish cultural heritage. Mr President, I would like to The government therefore proposes that cultural heritage can be understood as traces and expressions of the past that are attributed to value and used in the present. In doing so, we leave to the profession and expertise – the impressive profession of cultural heritage, full of researchers and professionals as well as many volunteers – to decide how cultural heritage should be managed and displayed to the public. Mr President, I would like to My task as Minister of State and Minister of Culture is to create the best possible conditions, propose organisational frameworks, formulate and follow up goals and allocate funding – but otherwise keep my political fingers in control. Only then will we have a cultural heritage sector managed by knowledge, profession and proven experience. Only then will we seriously open up the paths of education to the public. It is with great pleasure that I am here today discussing Sweden's first bill that takes a holistic approach to cultural heritage as its own policy area. The bill has been preceded by solid investigation work – three state investigations and some twenty government reports form the basis of the bill. I am very proud of the result. The bill is a comprehensive and full of policies to ensure that the cultural heritage area has the best possible conditions to develop. It includes everything from a strategy for cultural environmental work to increased ambitions for digitalisation. For the interested, there is a historical exposé of the development of the cultural heritage area. Mr President, I would like to During my limited time here in the speaker's chair, I would like to highlight three priorities for a new cultural heritage policy. Firstly, the Government proposes a new museum law that regulates the independence of museums. Around the world we see cultural institutions being transformed into servants of power. In our country, we see, especially at local level, examples of how politicians exert pressure on museums, exhibition halls and other cultural institutions. A new museum law states that politicians should not have views on museums' exhibitions or other artistic or knowledge-based content. The fact that the principle of arm's length is finally laid down in law guarantees strong and independent museums free from political influence. Secondly, we have a strengthened focus on knowledge and education. The museums are knowledge institutions, and nothing but the knowledge of the profession should govern the activities of museums. It should therefore be made clear in the legal text that the purpose of museums is to aim at knowledge, cultural experience and free opinion formation. Exhibitions and other public activities should be knowledge-based, and museums should contribute to research by having a high level of competence in their different subject areas. Thirdly, the cultural heritage will be made available throughout our country. To this end, museums must work together so that objects can be made available to each other free of charge without being restricted by municipal borders or other administrative bureaucracy. Cultural heritage is a common heritage, a common resource. It should not be hidden away in magazines in Stockholm, but it should benefit all people. That is what my priorities look like when I have to choose three to highlight. But the bill contains so much more, and I would need all afternoon to tell you everything I'm proud of. Mr President, I would like to I could develop what is written about having a new investigation investigate the possibilities and challenges of the archive sector, our shared long-term memory, in the increasingly digitised society. I could tell you a lot about how the National Archives should look at how their data could be given free of charge to the public as a free admission reform for the archive sector. Open data is an important step in making cultural heritage available throughout the country. I could tell you more about how the government starts strategic work in order to achieve the national cultural environmental goals and how the voluntary cultural heritage work around the country gets better opportunities. I could also tell you about organisational changes in the museum sector, such as the fact that the National Antiquarie Office is given a collective responsibility for museum issues so that museums can instead use their resources efficiently for what is their core task, namely collection management, knowledge building and public activities. These are changes that the museum sector has been waiting for and which it welcomes. In the absence of time, I can refer instead to reading the 240 pages of the bill. As I said, I'm glad we're finally here today. The government's cultural heritage policy is another important step in creating the best possible conditions for cultural life in our country in general and for cultural heritage in particular. In the work of the government, a couple of principles have been guiding. Knowledge, artistic freedom and respect for the profession have been the starting points that shaped the work. The preparation of the new policy has been an arduous process that has taken its time. It has taken patience. The investigation system has had its course. We have read every referral, and we have had a close dialogue with the sector. But it's been worth waiting for. Finally, the cultural heritage is given an improved organisational framework and increased funding. However, we are not finished. Step by step, we continue to work towards a cultural policy based on artistic freedom and education. With 767 new million for culture, free admission to state museums and a cultural heritage policy for strong and independent museums, we contribute to more culture and a freer cultural life. And this is just the beginning.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-276	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Culture talks repeatedly about how she wants to avoid political control and have rope length distance. I may think that sometimes this is a strange reasoning from a minister who has so clearly taken every chance to also have views and views on what culture should actually do. On the one hand, the clear distance between activities and politicians is claimed. On the other hand, culture is constantly mentioned in terms of tasks – for greater democratisation, for a sustainable society, for norm-critical thinking. These are important things, but has not culture always done this through its mere existence and not through political signals and training missions? The Minister for Culture has been so lenient that she has even wanted to go in and regulate prices in the ticket office, who gets and who doesn't. So far it was the rope. I think that in the Minister for Culture's box there are now so many ropes and snowstumps that an entire Scout Association could practice knots on them. Or she's like that sorcerer who stands with his rope, cuts a little in it, ties it together and moves the knot but still always has a short blizzard left. The management of the Museums of World Culture is subject to criticism. Here the government has given two different assignments to the agency: one on how the economy should get in balance and one on the development of the world cultural concept. When the investigations are reported, they refuse to handle the results. A debate has raged, an authority has ended up in a sometimes unreasonable courthouse but the Minister himself has been silent and merely refers to the fact that premises are not a government matter. Is not the specificity and integrity of collections a political issue? Is not the economy and its consequences a political issue? I would like to know how the Minister for Culture sees the different collections and the specific features of museums. I would like to know how she views the announcement that Parliament is now making. I would like to know what she intends to do to safeguard the integrity of the world cultural collections.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-282	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Olof Lavesson, for the questions! I think it is important to emphasise and underline what has actually happened. It is important that we stick to the truth, and when it comes to the National Museums of World Culture, there is no concrete proposal on the table. What has happened is that the museum, not least under bourgeois control of this country, has been drawn with poor economy for a long time. Statskontoret urged the government to steer and question so that this would not continue. That was one of the first calls I received. At that request, the government agency – the National Museums of World Culture – submitted a report to the government setting out a range of options to address their fundamental economic concerns. This report is therefore a direct consequence of Statskontoret's carrying out a government analysis. Taking a position on proposals that do not exist is not something that I am dealing with. What I do, however, successfully, is to ensure that we get more money for culture in our country. The state's museums for world culture need more funding in order to preserve their special character, in order to develop the mission they have and which fits in with their instructions. It is also interesting that Lavesson talks about governance when I talk about freedom, independence and more resources, not least given what the Moderates wrote in the directive to the Museum investigation 2014. It talks about diversity in the activities of museums, that museums should take global perspectives into account in their day-to-day activities, and that priority should be given to gender equality and diversity. That is what Olof Lavesson's party wrote out.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-288	Mr President, I would like to Initially, I want to be very clear that I have the absolute greatest respect for the work done at the National Museums of World Culture. We Moderates in the committee have visited all three Stockholm museums that are now affected. It's impressive collections, and there's an amazing skill and a committed staff. These are assets that we should be proud of and protect. However, it is the government that governs the kingdom, and our authorities have to act on behalf of the government and directives. It is the government and the Minister for Culture who has commissioned the agency to investigate both the economy and the focus. I can also inform the Minister of Culture that there are two investigations that she has commissioned and not one; I do not know if she forgot to read one. Both of these studies are based on a completely new view of the concept of world culture and a borderless museum, where you look at collections as well as exhibition activities from a new perspective. Surely that is what the Minister for Culture has a responsibility to take a position on. There are a number of proposals. Does the Minister of Culture have no opinion, no priority on the matter? I certainly do not think that elected political representatives should point out exactly under which ceiling they should operate. But when it comes to orientation, frameworks and strategies, the state as the principal has my responsibility! The Minister of Culture has repeated time and again that it does not want to decide which premises it is about. What about the mission? What should be considered? All they say in the bill is that the concept of world culture remains relevant. Can you duck deeper into the issue that is currently involving the whole of Museisverige? Does the Minister for Culture share the view of the Social Democrats that our collective collections are not something that the state has to relate to? Is this the signal she wants to send to the National Museum, Moderna Museet and other state museums? These are important issues for the future. These are crucial questions. Our museums deserve better. Those who work at the museums deserve better. Those affected by their activities deserve better. When the rest of us are trying to get a discussion on this, the Minister for Culture is still in the box office. I can only regret that.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-294	Mr President, I would like to I can agree with one thing in Mr Lavesson's speech. It is that there are impressive activities at the National Museums of World Culture. If you have listened to the National Museums of World Culture and the whole of our fantastic museum sector, it is one thing they ask for with a strong common voice. It is more resources, better resources and more opportunities to carry out their important mission. That's what I'm fighting for. That's my priority. Lavesson asks what is my priority. I will ensure that every day, as long as I am Minister of Culture, I fight for more means but also more freedom and more independence. That's why the Museum Act is so central. What I have fought for and protected most of all is that we really cut the band to clumpy politicians. At the same time, and that is the responsibility I take, I ensure that our museums receive more resources. More money and more stable funding are built independently in a powerful way. It is very remarkable that the Member of Parliament thinks that I govern when I make a museum team and cut ties with us politicians and also ensure that there is greater funding. I also have a number of other reforms that have already been implemented, such as the free-access reform. Speaking of the collections, the collections are of course absolutely central. It's one of the museums' most important tasks to collect, isn't it? But it is not for us politicians to tell them what to collect or how to collect. Those who can, the experts, the profession and all those who in different ways are passionate about and defend our cultural heritage will do so.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-298	Mr President, I would like to We could hear the Minister of Culture say: I love our common Swedish cultural heritage. I'm glad to hear that. Those are beautiful words. It is a formulation that I think most Swedes can fit into and feel belonging to. At the same time, I maintain what I highlighted in my main speech earlier today. What the government does with this cultural heritage bill is to push forward a bureaucratic cultural revolution that begins to deny, demean and distort the view that we have a common Swedish cultural heritage worth nurturing, protecting and showing for future generations. We have a responsibility on our shoulders as decision-makers to secure it for the future. The Minister of Culture said there is no fixed matter. In a way, it's true. Culture is culture and is tradable and developed as society changes. But it's both. There are given historical traces, remains and environments, artifacts in collections, in cultural environments, in landscapes and in settlement environments that are our responsibility to care for, protect and show. My question is as follows. The Government completely slaughters the grants to the National Property Board, which is the national authority responsible for caring for, protecting and showing our common cultural environments for the future. How can you implement a strategic cultural environment work? It is irreversible when our cultural environments are destroyed, distorted and will not have time to be renovated and maintained in time. Why is this question invisible on the table?
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-302	Mr President, I would like to The fact that the National Property Board, which is responsible for the entire state's property portfolio, sets its priorities is obviously an issue that affects a great many different sectors. I am responsible for and fighting for the cultural sector and our country. I will continue to fight for the existence of means for all culture. It is precisely today that we are discussing cultural heritage and the cultural environment. I will, of course, also fight for more funding so that cultural environments and cultural heritage can develop and thrive, reach many more, become attractive, attract and become a concern for many. When it comes to lettings, which are part of the operations of the National Property Board, it is of course a challenge that several of our institutions have operations in houses that cost a lot in rent. It is an ongoing dialogue I have with Minister Per Bolund, among other things. It is interesting that the Swedish Democrats choose to focus precisely on this. This is done in a context that also accuses a Minister of Culture and a government that wants to safeguard independence and build on knowledge, research and freedom. When you read the proposals of the Swedish Democrats, you see how they want to govern and distort like they do in all other countries where their sisters and brothers take power. It's scary reading. Perhaps the most frightening thing is that the Moderates have opened up for cooperation with this party. There we have something to really fight against and for. It gives power to all debates and discussions, and it gives power to a policy that makes a difference.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-308	Mr President, I would like to There is a lot of semantics in this. Is it in some follow-up motion and some commitment to the texts and texts that lie before the debate today, it is clear that it is in the follow-up motion of the Swedish Democrats that it is even clearer, much clearer, unlike in the Government's proposal, that museums should be kept free of political control and interference. We even want to strengthen the wording that these are scientific institutions, they are providers of knowledge and they are historical institutions that should not have political directives and mandates such as the government has just given them to be active public debaters, that they should contribute to the formation of views on current and contemporary issues and that it is positive if they contribute to a temporary intellectual view of what the concept of integration or norm criticism holds. These educational institutions have a historical heritage of being scientific institutions and should be kept free of political pointers. It is interesting that the government beats its chest and speaks warmly for something that it itself actually goes quite against in its proposals. Are we supposed to have debate museums, or are they scientific institutions? I'll recommend it later. We cannot stress it carefully enough. I'd like to take this opportunity to say something. That is what history is all about in the debate and to question. Why is it so important for the government to delete writings in the Cultural Environment Act that recognizes that we have a national and common heritage worth caring for, protecting and showing in Sweden? It's deleted and erased. Why is it so important?
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-312	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to call on the honourable Member to read the cultural heritage bill. It is clear that, for example, the museum team that is now on the table for the first time cuts the bond between politics and those who can, do and can develop how it should happen. When it comes to the wording on national cultural heritage, it should be known to the Member of Parliament that it is the Parliament that has the task to make Swedish law, right? It should therefore be known that the wording on cultural heritage concerns precisely the Swedish, i.e. the national, cultural heritage. The reason for the changes is that legal text should not be unduly burdened by unclear concepts. It's always like that. A legal text should not be burdened with vague concepts. These changes make the rules clearer.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-315	Mr President, I would like to Aron Emilsson from the Swedish Democrats criticizes the government for putting an ideological break over cultural policy. It's good that he does, I think. It is good that he is committed to this. Emilsson continued to say that cultural heritage policy should ensure that we convey what is unique, that we create cultural community and community of thought, and that we define what we should unite around. It is interesting to see that what Aron Emilsson is doing is not only criticising the government for having an ideological break, but he is actually criticising it for having the wrong ideological breaks. He wants his own ideological breaks to tell the story that he wants cultural heritage policy and policy to tell. It's just as bad. The story that the Swedish Democrats want to be the true story of Sweden should, moreover, according to reservation 18, be conveyed through computer games that are to be financed by state funds. It is good that the Swedish Democrats criticise the government for having ideological breaks. But it is equally bad that the Swedish Democrats themselves have ideological breaks. It is so easy, Mr President, to go blind. You can see the mote in the eyes of others, but not the beam in your own. That's how we all work. It is clear that we are all ideologising cultural heritage. Looking back, I try to find roots, signs and tracks that lead to Sweden becoming a liberal democracy. Others try to find other stories in their consideration of cultural heritage. Of course you do that. It is difficult to ignore the fact that you yourself have ideological glasses. In the same way, we define concepts as arm's length in different ways. Of course we can all think it's good to have arm's length. But when it comes to financing the renovation of the Nationalmuseum, we are prepared to do so from the state side, and thus we also say that the Nationalmuseum should be in the purpose property that they have been in existence for many years. When we are going to finance the renovation of the Opera, we also take the position that the Opera should be in a particular property. It is strange that the Swedish Democrats ignore that kind of arm's length distance, but when it comes to defining which other museums should be in some properties it is stopped. Then it's a ban, and then we'll suddenly have arm's length. We're all the same. We're talking about others not being ideological and others having arm's length, but we can't see that we ourselves have beams in our eyes. I think it is Moa Martinson's Women and Apple Trees that was one of the first polyphonic novels in Sweden; at least Ebba Witt-Witt-Brattström claims that. The finess of it is that if you tell many different stories you get a better picture of reality and how it really is. If you just look at your own history and just look back at the cultural heritage and look for the roots that lead to what you have today and what you want to stand for yourself see that particular picture. But if you have polyphony, like Dostojevskij, Moa Martinson and others in their novels, you see a broader picture. I think it is important to note that cultural heritage should contribute to this very thing. It's not a thread you're looking for. It's not a weave. It is perhaps not even a yarn ball, but it is textiles where you can smile after lots of different threads and find many different explanations that we are where we are right now. I would like to say that one of the main problems that the debate is just circulating is why the government has chosen to take a step backwards in relation to the Ethnographic, Mediterranean and East Asian museums and say: we should not be ideological here. In fact, it was the government itself – or at least the Green Party's working group on culture – that really led to the debate. It was partly bad economy and partly the ideology of the Green Party that led to us landing where we did. It is therefore a pity that the government is now not taking responsibility for ensuring that we get this right, as there are so many questions about the cultural heritage sector itself.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-324	Mr President, I would like to I think I have said this some time before in various debates: Liberals have historically made themselves known as an educational party. They should have all respect and recognition for having been. But when Christer Nylander attacks the Swedish Democrats' proposal in the report for a strengthened and better cared for Swedish cultural heritage, he does so with terms such as that we criticise the government's ideological and cultural revolutionary breaks over Swedish cultural heritage. And that's right; we do. But where in the Swedish Democrats' extensive follow-up motion, in the report or in debates have we actually laid down our own ideological break over what we define as the only right Swedish cultural heritage more than acknowledging that it exists and that it exists and that this is something that people feel? Carl Jonas Love Almqvist once said: Swedishness is not always rational. It has its right home in the feeling. Many people define it this way: You feel if you are Swedish or if you do not belong to the Swedish community. Then we have cultural markers and expressions within all our different cultural forms that are uniquely Swedish, created in Sweden. I wonder about one thing when you ridicule ideas such as using a growing cultural form such as computer games and establishing a Swedish gambling institute to promote Nordic and Swedish cultural environments in the gaming sector to attract more people to the real environment. Why are the Liberals, who previously wanted to create and disseminate knowledge and education, negative to an idea that just spreads knowledge and education about Swedish and Nordic cultural and natural heritage?
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-328	Mr President, I would like to It was brilliant to highlight Almqvist, who was a man who told us what it is like to be outside the Swedish community, not to belong to it or that the Swedish community is defined by someone else. He basically got to flee this country because he wrote a book like It goes well, where he pushed the thesis that women and men should have equal opportunities both in terms of business and in terms of love. He was so radical on the point that people hated him. He violated the community, the community kitt and the common idea that Aron Emilsson himself said in his speech that cultural heritage policy should contribute to. He violated this, and now he is part of the Swedish cultural heritage precisely because he did so. He shaped Swedish politics, and he formed much of what would then become natural goods in Swedish cultural heritage and Swedish political thinking. I can give you what Emilsson said here, speaking of ideology. If you say that cultural heritage should serve to convey what is unique, it is a kind of ideology. Then you say you shouldn't do anything else. If you say that you should create a cultural community, it is an ideology of cultural heritage policy. If you say that you should have a community of thought, it is also a form of ideology. Aron Emilsson may think it is a good ideology, but it is an ideology of cultural heritage policy. If you say that cultural heritage policy should define what we should unite around, I think it is an ideology. Aron Emilsson may think it's a good ideology, but then you can't criticise the government for ideologies. You must see the beam in your own eye. If you are against others using cultural policies to implement their own ideas, you must also be faithful to your own thought. You have to be able to criticize those who do and see that you are doing the same thing yourself.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-332	Mr President, I would like to I can agree with Christer Nylander on that. I do not know if he has previously studied the same, but my previous studies studied history, cultural heritage policy, pedagogy, ideology and politics about how history can be used. Of course it is. What we are saying, however, is that in our succession motion we do not define what, for example, is exactly the only Swedish cultural heritage. We are not saying that this is the only thing that can be interpreted by everyone as the Swedish cultural heritage. But we are extremely concerned when the Alliance helps the government to pilot through a change in the Cultural Environment Act that is not educational and knowledge-oriented. It deletes the wording and recognition of the existence of a national heritage in Sweden, as in all other countries around the world, to care for, protect and show. That's what the Alliance does. It does not dare to act as an opposition, but it acts as a support party to help the government steer through a damaging cultural heritage policy in many respects. It's boring. It is also an anti-cultural heritage policy in many respects. Why, for example, do the Liberals put up with the government's debate museums? In the Alliance's follow-up motion there is no statement that this is something negative to implement. Instead, we propose that museums must be kept under the flag of science, education and knowledge orientation and not be governed by directives such as helping to be an active voice in the current social debate or contributing to integration, gender equality or other political concepts that are often loaded with political content. Why can they not be kept free of this according to the Liberals?
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-335	Mr President, I would like to Aron Emilsson and the Swedish Democrats believe that cultural heritage policy should help define what we should unite around. This would have meant that Almqvist in today's society had suffered exactly the same persecution as he did in Sweden at the time when he wrote It goes well. He violated the standard that had been defined that one should adhere to and be persecuted for it. I do not think that Swedish politics should deal with such things. I do not think that the Swedish Democrats should do so. When the Swedish Democrats say that others do, they must also see the beam in their own eye. Swedish cultural heritage exists. It consists of everything from what we see in museums here in Stockholm to the church in Norra Åsum that the Danish bishop Absalon was behind. But it is just as much about what Bengt Eliasson mentioned in his excellent speech, namely what is now happening in the Middle East where mankind's cultural heritage is being destroyed. When you look at where Sweden, the Swedes, our thinking activities and humanity come from, you see that it is largely from the common IS today trying to tear down because they try to use cultural heritage policy and cultural policy to get a straight line between what they themselves think today to what they think they see in history. Whatever doesn't fit on that line, they tear it away. Therefore, it is important to have diversity also in the museum system and not to give the assignment that you want it to give, namely to ensure that cultural heritage policy defines what Sweden should look like and what belongs to and what should not belong to this community.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-338	Mr President, I would like to Gunilla Nordgren has asked me if I am prepared to make it clear to the Migration Agency as a matter of urgency that people at laid-off accommodation should be assigned primarily to the municipality where the accommodation is located and within the designated number, in any case when the municipality has notified the Migration Agency that it has both the opportunity and wishes to receive these persons. As I answered in the previous parliamentary question on the same theme, the government is well aware of the problem raised by Gunilla Nordgren. At the same time as the Finnish Immigration Service took over responsibility for the instructions of newly arrived residents for residence in municipalities, the agency was given the goal of applying a proximity principle in the guidelines through the 2017 Regulatory Letter. This means that, when possible within the framework of the municipal numbers, the Migration Agency will assign persons to the same municipality in which they have lived during the asylum period. In this way, the Government has made clear the importance of the proximity principle in the Finnish Immigration Service's work with instructions. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that it is not possible to apply the principle of proximity in all cases. The Finnish Immigration Service must follow the county numbers and distribute the instructions among municipalities according to the municipality numbers decided by the county administrative boards. In addition, construction housing does not exist in all municipalities that have been allocated a number of municipalities. As the Migration Agency dismantles its housing sites, there will also be fewer municipalities in relation to which it may be appropriate to apply the proximity principle. Furthermore, only persons who have been granted a period of residence can be assigned. Most of the persons who move from one establishment to another installation dwelling due to the closure of accommodation have not yet received a decision on their asylum application and can therefore not be the subject of instructions until a possible residence permit has been granted. A further factor that the Migration Agency needs to relate to is the waiting period from residence permit to instruction decision. Taking into account the limiting factors I have mentioned, the Government maintains the importance of the Migration Agency applying the principle of proximity when working on instructions for new arrivals who have established themselves in a municipality during the asylum period to remain there in as many cases as possible.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-344	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking you for the answer that was much clearer than the answer that I received to my written question on the same subject in January. In the answer given to me by the Minister, it says: The Government has introduced a goal in the regulation letter for 2017 that the Migration Agency, when possible within the framework of the municipal speeches, should assign people to the same municipality in which they lived. I put this interpellation in April, but for various reasons it was not possible to have the debate within the prescribed time limit. The rules are such that I had to withdraw the interpellation and re-set it, and now we have finally found a time to debate. It feels a bit like we meet more often on our trips up here from Skåne than here in the Chamber. In my interpellation, I ask about the people who have been granted a residence permit, who live in properties that the Migration Agency is now closing and who have announced that they are ready to receive within the framework of the municipality's speech. The answer says about a lot of other factors that have nothing to do with this, because I had already removed them from my question. This is extremely important. Families are broken up, children are moved from one school to another, and they are devastated when they disappear in May and schools end in early June. It is important to try to get as far as possible with this. As I said, I am quite satisfied with the answer, because the Minister is now right that the principle of proximity should be respected, that is to say, the Migration Agency should assign people to the same municipality in which they have lived during the period of asylum if they fit within the designated municipality speech, as I pointed out in my question. The answer is a tightening up, and I think that is very good. I and many others expect this to be followed in the future. I hope, and may also ask, that the Minister intends to follow up on the proper follow-up of this mission in the letter of regulation.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-350	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Gunilla Nordgren, for setting this intersection! I want to start in the part where Gunilla talked about breaking up families and about school. This is not always done properly in a world of students and teachers. There is a shortage of teachers, and the school is under strain, and we have talked about the fact that there are a lot of administrative tasks. One of the tasks assigned to the school is to search for children and young people who disappear from school from one day to the next. It's a follow-up responsibility you have. When I'm out listening to teachers as well as principals and those who work as school staff I hear very often, not least in Skåne, that this is a problem. You have to spend a lot of time finding out where people have gone so that they don't just disappear into thin air. There could have been accidents or anything. The school has its responsibilities. I would like to stress, with regard to moving from one municipality to another or from one home to the next, that it is very important that it is also made clear that this whole link that will work must work in such a way that teachers and schools do not get seated with a problem that they are going to solve. They need help so that their work can be facilitated and invested in so that they can teach the students what they are supposed to do and so that those who need to get in touch also do so that the school is not further burdened.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-353	Mr President, I would like to As I think was clear from Gunilla Nordgrens's speech, what she asked for was actually already implemented. What we are talking about here is application. Does it work in real life? How hard do we steer the authorities in different ways to ensure that they do what we say they should do? I can tell them that the Migration Agency will do what we tell them to do. In the run-up to this debate, I asked for another check, that is to say, how is it actually done in practice? We matched that with the Migration Agency. When making such a residence, the time is such that in all matters to be dealt with first, the principle of proximity is taken into account. So you first look at whether there is a possibility to assign to the municipality where they already live. Then you can look at other special reasons. It may be that they go to another municipality where they may have relatives. Then you have to look at it. You first look at the municipality where they already live. If that number is already filled, you look at neighboring municipalities. It may be possible to commute to the school they attend or to the internship they may have received. In that case, it is good if they are not placed too far away. If not, you look at the rest of the county and the rest of the kingdom. But that's the next part. So that is how it is done in practice. You look at the municipality they live in, the neighbouring municipality and only after that at other municipalities. I would say that the Migration Agency is actually doing what we have said it should do. The problem is that asylum homes are often located in such a way that it is quite fast to fill the municipal speech. It is perhaps about small municipalities and municipalities that have a rather weak labour market. As Gunilla Nordgren knows, the legislation on instructions is such that it benefits according to how many people live in the municipalities. Then you also look at what the labour market looks like in the different parts. Although municipalities such as Lindesberg and Norberg have many asylum homes, they cannot accept everyone who is granted a residence permit, but these must be distributed to the other municipalities. That is exactly why we introduced that legislation. Now we have this instruction law. It's actually working fine. If we had not had it this year, it would have been much more difficult to assign people and to have a more even distribution. Every week we follow this, how many of the municipality numbers from 2016 and how many of the municipality numbers from 2017 have been distributed. Last year, some 18 000 asylum seekers were distributed to different municipalities; there is still a residue. This year a little more than 23,000 will be distributed. Most municipalities receive well. But there are some municipalities that are lagging behind. Two of them I could use some help with, Gunilla Nordgren. One is Täby, and the other is Kungsbacka. That's where you got party friends in charge. The more we work together to ensure that the municipalities can receive, the better it is. It is good for society but also for asylum seekers. Mr President, I would like to My reply is this: it is already as Gunilla Nordgren has requested. We also follow up all the time to make sure that this really works. I personally do not do all the relocations and monitor everything in detail, but the Migration Agency does what the government has said it should do.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-363	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that. I asked the interpellation because, despite the rather positive response I received in January, I found that it was not in line with reality. It is about a small municipality that has a good labour market and where the municipality number is not filled. But the Migration Agency said it wasn't in the three-month planning there earlier. But we did not know that the accommodation would go out in the latest procurement. It's not Täby, and it's not Kungsbacka. It is a Scanian municipality with good finances, where my party colleagues also run. That was my point of departure. I've seen in reality that it doesn't work. I was just wondering if the Minister had mentioned it; it took some time for us to have the debate. In fact, during that time it has come loose, so that at least half of these people could be allowed to stay in the municipality. So it gets better. But when I asked the question, it wasn't true. Then we have achieved something good. Here's the deal. AnnAnn-Charlotte was into looking for children and breaking them up three weeks before graduation and moving them to another municipality where they will be re-examined and so on. That does not agree – with this number as well. It will continue to be strained in the municipalities. You have to work together. Many have still not received a permanent residence permit. So this is going to continue. New schools and preschools will need to be built. It takes time, and it costs a lot of money. That is why it is important to help and cooperate on this issue, as the Minister himself calls for. However, on the basis of a real case that I have followed, I could say that it did not work. It wasn't a nice attitude, it was just said: We can't change this. It had been arranged for housing. The municipal number was not filled, and the labour market is good. It is great if attention is paid and the Minister is now following it up. Then we can hope that this attitude changes. It is important to cooperate and not work against each other. This is a difficult situation that needs to be resolved in the coming years. Then it is cooperation that applies. It is also inhumane to pick up children and parents four weeks before graduation. I also mentioned this in my first speech. The children who are still in school are also very sad to get rid of their friends. This is no good in any way. I thank you for this and expect continued control and improvement of the Migration Agency's management.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-373	Mr President, I would like to I would like to stress that I hope that the Minister and the Government will also take the school issue with them, so that it will be a follow-up issue, together with the other, in terms of cooperation and cooperation. There should be focus on the students but also on making the chain stick together.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-374	Mr President, I would like to I and Gunilla Nordgren agree on exactly the direction we set out. The three-month planning is because the municipality has two months to receive the person assigned to it after a decision has been made. The two months are preceded by a month of dialogue with the municipality, precisely so that it will be possible to discuss how much the municipality can cope with, for example how it is located in the building. We should be aware that there is an enormous amount of logistics we are doing right now. We are not just closing down quite a large number of asylum homes because those places are no longer needed. Once the asylum seekers have been granted a residence permit, they must also go to the municipalities. It places demands on all parties. The system we have means, as I said, that we distribute asylum seekers more evenly across the country than before. That's very good. But it also means that we are trying to take account of the principle of proximity. In all these cases, a trial must first be carried out against the municipality concerned and, secondly, a trial against neighbouring municipalities, and only in the third place is progress made. We are now down on numbers that can be handled. It is not like last January when 150 000 people were waiting for decisions. Now there are barely 60 000 left waiting for decisions. But there is still great logistics, a large device, to cope with. The tight sector at the moment is not the labour market. We have a good labour market. People are working on a strong labour market where there are 100,000 job vacancies. The difficult situation right now, the bottleneck, is housing construction and ensuring that it continues to be at a high level. True, more than 40 years of construction have taken place. In the planning, we are up to 70 000 new homes per year. We must remain at that level for a number of years to come in order to be able to cope with it. It is simply a matter of ensuring that municipalities build in the wake. I mentioned Täby and Kungsbacka. I hope that we can join forces to ensure that the municipalities that are on the blacklist – I am happy to say – catch up. I now follow the ten most deprived municipalities every week to see if they are going in the right or the wrong direction. This also applies to municipalities where we run. My own municipality of residence, Lund, is on the list. I have spoken to our municipal representatives there, and they have promised to catch up this year, to carry out their mission. You must do the same with the municipalities that run the municipalities that do not comply with the legislation. If we do this together, we will do it. This also applies to school issues, Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson. It is clear that there must be a good dialogue with the schools concerned. I will gladly do what I can to ensure that this dialogue is strengthened.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-382	Mr President, I would like to It is good that we agree with Morgan Johansson, so we will not prolong the debate. However, I would like to mention this with three-month planning and two-month planning. The information about a decommissioned accommodation comes quite quickly. When the three-month planning is done and the municipality offers to receive these people, the Migration Agency says that the municipality did not say so during the three-month planning. But we'll have to make sure this gets better in the future. It's a good thing there's a lot of building going on. There is a damp need, but this applies not only to housing, but also to schools and preschools. It is expensive to build in Sweden. The construction market is, so to speak, cramped in itself. We've got problems ahead of us. 60 000 people are also a huge number of people. It is important that municipalities do what they can. We were some who met the Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board in Lund yesterday. At the time, this question was not raised, but several municipalities have had difficulty reaching the speeches. But that is not the case in the municipality that I think of most. You fill your speeches. So it is not about these problems, but it is a question of the attitude of the Migration Agency which has now become much better, and we are delighted about that. Thank you for your answer and thank you for a good debate.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-386	Mr President, I would like to It is precisely that it is a question of maintaining the building act. It can be expensive and difficult, but it's kind of fun too. I myself have been a member of a construction board in Lund. There is hardly anything more fun than when the municipality adopts a new in-depth master plan – there are perhaps things that are more fun, but you understand what I mean. It is fun to build new schools, plan new residential areas and make sure that society grows. Opening a school and watching the children flock in to learn things is amazingly fun. Then the local government sector must have money for it; that is quite right. That is why we cannot reduce the tax that some people are happy to argue for. We need to make sure that priority is given so that we use the money for what is needed. We also need to continue to maintain the high level of building that we have achieved in general. At the moment, 60 000 people are still waiting to hear from us. Not everyone will be granted a residence permit. We know from experience that approximately 60% are granted a residence permit. Then there is family immigration, where we can count on a further 0.4 people on everyone who is granted a residence permit. At this rate and the situation that we have, I am confident that we will do the task that was so difficult just a year ago. But, of course, we must continue to maintain construction and ensure that the labour market continues to be strong.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-391	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me whether I intend to act to increase the possibilities for different types of bourgeois marriages and, if so, how. As I understand it, the Swedish Democrats want to make it possible to charge for marriage. Mikael Eskilandersson states in his question that according to the Swedish Democrats there is a need for a review and possibly a new regulatory framework that clarifies all municipalities' obligation to provide weddings free of charge. The mission as a marriage officer is a government mission. Civil servants are appointed by the county administrative board, and they receive compensation for the assignment from the state, not from the couple. Many civil marriage officers are appointed on a proposal from the municipalities. The municipalities also often act as an intermediary between the couple and the marriage officer. Some municipalities then charge a fee for the wedding hall or for administrative assistance. Anyone who wants to marry bourgeois can, however, turn directly to any wedding executioner. The wedding does not need to be booked via the municipality. Where the wedding takes place, it is up to the couple and the marriage officer to agree on. If the marriage officer has incurred direct costs in connection with the wedding, such as travel, he or she may be reimbursed by agreement with the couple. I do not share the view of the Swedish Democrats that it should be possible for a marriage officer to charge for offering the couple something extra. It is, as I just said, possible for the couple and the marriage officer to agree where the wedding is to take place. For example, it can be at home with the couple, on an archipelago island or in a currently rented premises. There is also nothing to prevent the couple from hiring another person or company to assist with the arrangement around the wedding. To have an individually adapted wedding is therefore possible today. On the other hand, a marriage officer should not be allowed to use his or her assignment as part of commercial activities. Being a marriage officer is a state honorary assignment. The tasks delegated to the consensuals constitute the exercise of public authority which has significant legal consequences. The ceremony shall be given an official character, and the officer shall contribute to it on behalf of the general public. The official character of the wedding would be lost if persons who have a commercial motive for it were appointed as a marriage officer. My answer to Mikael Eskilandersson is therefore that there are already good opportunities to adapt a wedding to the couple's wishes. This applies regardless of whether it is a matter of being able to enter into a marriage free of charge or of paying for a more grand arrangement.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-397	Mr President, I would like to There are currently no companies in Sweden offering a ready-made wedding package, at least not including weddings. And why isn't there? Well, simply because it's not allowed. I do not think that the state should have different rules for religious versus non-religious associations or companies. Non-religious associations or companies have no opportunity to hire a person to perform marriages, such as the Church of Sweden. In this way, people who are not religiously inferior are given the opportunity to design their marriage as they please. There should also be an opportunity for companies to organise a wedding out of the ordinary for those who want it and who are willing to pay for it. Companies and entrepreneurs are not truly evil. Most entrepreneurs are ordinary people who are passionate about what they do. Morgan Johansson claims that it is possible to have personal variations on a bourgeois wedding, and that is true, if one succeeds in finding a marriage officer who is in office, which is not at all certain. I could list a number of examples of when marriage ministers have refused to perform a wedding as desired. Among other things, it has been too far from the town hall, that it has been at an uncomfortable time or that it has taken too much time, according to the marriage ministers who have been asked. Often this problem has been solved. There are several wedding ministers, and it is usually possible to find someone who will be there. If a person has a business idea to arrange a wedding in a special way, there is no possibility of hiring a marriage officer unless he is a religious association. Then all of a sudden it's okay. This, in my view, is a somewhat strange attitude from the state. The state should not distinguish between the system of religious and non-religious associations. Why is a religious association allowed to employ a marriage officer while a non-religious association is forbidden to do the same? It may be thought that companies are considered commercial and thus evil, while religious associations are always considered good. The fact that people enter into marriage is definitely positive for society in several respects. It solves a lot of problems, including custody, inheritance rules and so on. What I find strange is that you have different rules depending on whether it is a religious association or whether it is a company that is behind it. Why is this so?
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-406	Mr President, I would like to We were in the middle of a shift of lines dealing with the marriageeer. Mikael Eskilandersson drew a parallel to how churches can do. He says that if you hire a priest, you get paid for your work, while a marriage officer is not paid. In my opinion, this parallel limps badly. The church doesn't hire a minister. It's just a priest. Then this priest has a wedding right, but that's actually another thing. Moreover, churches are not fundamentally profit-making in the same way as commercial companies in this case would be. In the interpellation there is a discussion about municipal fees and how much money the municipalities can charge. It is important to make it clear that it is not allowed for a municipality to charge for the wedding itself. This is not a local authority but a government mission and a service to the citizens. All citizens have the right to request this service free of charge, i.e. a free marriage. On the other hand, you can charge for the premises themselves if you rent it out or if you have administrative costs linked to the communication of a contact. This, too, is partly a different matter from the marriage itself. There is nothing to prevent a bride and groom from contacting a marriage officer and having a wedding performed without going over the municipality or anyone else. In that case, it doesn't have to cost a penny. Let me return to the fundamental question of whether this should be commercialised in the way that the Swedish Democrats want to do. I believe that if you are a marriage officer, you have an honorary assignment, and it should also be regarded as such. It's not supposed to be a commercial tangle, it's an honorary assignment. There is nothing today to prevent a couple from setting up a wedding in exactly the way they wish. If you want to do something special, you can hire other companies or entrepreneurs alongside, except for the wedding ceremony itself. Being a marriage officer is basically a form of authority. I think you should hold on to that. Market forces must be brought to a halt when it comes to what is basically the exercise of authority. I may therefore sound somewhat old-fashioned and traditional, but I do not think that the exercise of government authority should be the subject of commerce. We're not going to have any Las Vegas in this.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-412	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to make it clear that the Swedish Democrats naturally also want a free alternative, and this will be provided by the municipality. It should of course be possible to marry free of charge. We are in complete agreement on that. What I see as a little problematic, however, is that you are not allowed to have a person employed to perform weddings. There I think there is a likeness to priests, imams, or others. As soon as you involve religion and a religion, it's okay to have a person employed who has the right to marry. On the other hand, you cannot post a job advertisement at Arbetsförmedlingen to hire someone to marry people. There may be a point in not commercializing this, but the worst aversions of weddings I think we can see anyway. There is always someone who is willing to marry people in the most strange ways. Otherwise you can always go abroad. I think that a company can very well organise an organized wedding according to old Swedish tradition but without Christian or other religious elements. I do not really understand why it is opposed that a company that commercialises and starts marketing this may have a person employed who can also carry out the ceremony itself. This is not a big problem. You usually solve it anyway. But the wedding couple usually have to turn to several instances to get together the wedding that they dream about and want. I would see it as an advantage to anyone who wants to marry if it is enough to turn to a place that can arrange the whole wedding for you.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-417	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I think it is necessary to distinguish between the tasks. Being a marriage officer is a matter of authority. It is provided by the State, and it is free of charge. It is a service that you as a citizen have. I would never think of moralizing over any forms of wedding. Mikael Eskilandersson said we already have the worst of weddings. I really don't understand what he means by that. In my opinion, there are no varieties of weddings, but I assume that however one wants to post this moment that will probably be a memory for life for those involved, it will be quite right for them. And they must have full freedom to do so without anyone pointing fingers at them. However, that is not what we are talking about now. It is a question of whether the state as a public authority and, in this case, a marriage officer should be mixed up with things that a company or entrepreneurs around can stand for. I don't think so. The state should keep on its own. We are the ones who make sure that the marriageeer exists and to make the decisive legal consecration so that this will be valid in the eyes of the state. Then these two roles should not be confused. Calling it rejection or moralizing is not something I do.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-421	Mr President, I would like to I don't want to say that just because it's commercial, it's less serious. Then you also make an assessment. In fact, a priest has paid when he performs a wedding, as if a person employed by a company had to. As long as the company itself is serious and takes its mission sevost, I have no moral problem with the company performing the wedding. In other words, there have been examples of getting married naked or getting married in strange places, such as jumping bungee jumps or parachutes. It's not the marriage in itself that I mean, it's that you do it in an odd way. And if you can do this already today, there is nothing that a company could do more strangely or oddly than it can be today. But if people want a wedding when they jump bungee jumping, they should of course have it. I don't see any moral problems with that. I'm just saying that maybe it's an odd kind. In conclusion, I would like to say that companies are not necessarily misleading just because they are companies. You should also be able to offer a wedding as an entrepreneur. It is a little strange that only religious people are allowed to do this and that associations or companies are not allowed to have a person employed to marry.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-424	Mr President, I would like to Like I said, I don't interfere in how people get married. I assume they've done it exactly the way they want it to be done. I think that freedom is self-evident. You get married in every possible way: jumping, running, upside down, standing on your legs, dressed or undressed. It doesn't matter much, but the important thing is that you get an arrangement and an experience that you carry with you for the rest of your life. What I am saying is that I want to separate the state role that we have, where we stand for the exercise of authority, from the rest. That is exactly my point, which is why I do not want to confuse those roles. The order we have today gives us full freedom to do what you want in terms of how the wedding is arranged. However, when it comes to who is the marriage officer, this should be a service provided by the state, and it should of course be available free of charge.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-428	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me whether I intend to take any legislative initiatives to clarify the legal situation with regard to agreements on mahrs between people who differ in Sweden. First of all, there is no simple description of what the Mahr is. Most legal systems with an Islamic legal tradition have rules about the Mahr, but the content of the rules may differ. An agreement on the Mahr can be drawn up in different ways and have different objectives. The situation is thus far more complex than the picture that Mikael Eskilandersson draws in his interpellation. We live in a world where people move and move across borders. The purpose of international civil and commercial law is to resolve disputes relating to several countries. The rules may lead to Swedish courts applying foreign law that is different from the rules that apply here in the country. It's a natural order. It can have large and unforeseen legal effects for individuals if rules they have assumed do not apply in Sweden. At the same time, the rules on public policy mean that a provision of foreign law may not be applied here if it would be manifestly incompatible with the public policy of the Swedish legal order. Mikael Eskilandersson is free to interpret the judgments recently given by the Supreme Court in relation to agreements on the Mahr. I am pleased to note that the Supreme Court, on the basis of the legislation in force, has taken a position on the qualification of the Mahr contracts in question in the cases, according to which the validity of the national law agreements would be assessed and how one of the contracts would be assessed under Swedish substantive law. It is thus possible to deal with this type of issue with the current regulations. In this context, it should be noted that Sweden has been involved in developing two regulations with international private and procedural rules on matrimonial property regimes and registered partners in the framework of enhanced cooperation in the EU. The regulations will largely replace Swedish rules. The regulations, which will begin to apply on 29 January 2019, will make it easier for international couples. The Government has appointed a special investigator to submit proposals for constitutional changes to the regulations by 31 October of this year. There are therefore several reasons for not taking any legislative action on the Mahr.
i-HqyR5U9VWbcQf3T85KSMh6	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Morgan Johansson, for your answer. I believe that we will be able to come back to the EU regulations later, when there are concrete proposals. Otherwise, I can only say that it is true that there is no solid template for what the Mahr is, which is because the Mahr is not an agreement but rather linked to cultural pretences and traditions. Mahr is also mentioned in the Qur'an. Mahr is not normally a regulation of the economic relations between the persons prior to the marriage, as is the case with a prenuptial agreement. Therefore, the Mahr should never be valid in Sweden. The Supreme Court ruling also makes it clear that in the case raised, the Mahr is not valid as a contract or as a prenuptial agreement in Sweden. However, there are some wordings in the judgment that open up for a different interpretation in other cases. Otherwise, I am largely satisfied with the Supreme Court's judgment and interpretation. I am also pleased with Morgan Johansson's reply so far, so I do not intend to use my other contributions in this interpellation.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-440	Mr President, I would like to Then there is not much else to add, more than possibly to make it clear that it is not the case that Swedish courts sit and judge a little anyway according to foreign law and that this would mean systematically violating women or treating them as inferior. It's exactly the opposite – the rules on public policy are designed to set a base for what such judgments should look like. In this case, the Supreme Court did not judge under foreign law, but was judged under Swedish law. But it is also the case that if one had chosen to judge according to – in this case – Iranian law, the outcome for the woman would probably have been better than what was now the case when judging according to Swedish law. For then she would have been entitled to the money that she believes she was promised in the event of divorce. So life can be that way too. In this case, however, it was considered that the couple had such a connection with Sweden that Swedish law would apply. I shall not say that it is common for courts to judge under the laws of other countries, but it does exist. It is not just a question of Sweden judging according to foreign law, but it can also be the opposite. Foreign courts sometimes judge under Swedish law, because agreements signed in other countries and the legal order there must be taken into account. All the time, however, there is this basic bottom – you can never go under what is fundamental to our legal system. Of course, we continue to follow this very closely. However, there are no grounds for further legislative initiatives in the light of the judgments.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-447	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me if I and the government have considered making parenting in Sweden more equal through automatic joint custody. In all matters concerning children, there should be a clear children's perspective. Joint custody is, in most cases, a very good form of custody from the child's point of view. For the child's sake, it is important that both parents are involved in the child's circumstances and take responsibility for the child, as the Convention on the Rights of the Child also expresses. Parents who are married have joint custody of the child from the birth of the child. For unmarried parents who agree to have joint custody, it is possible to obtain this in a simple way, for example by notifying the Social Welfare Board in connection with the confirmation of paternity or parenthood. For unmarried parents who do not agree, the matter of custody may be examined in court according to what is best for the child in the individual case. In such cases, there may often be a lack of conditions for joint custody, for example if there has been violence or other abuse of the mother. Therefore, it does not seem appropriate to have a system whereby unmarried parents automatically acquire joint custody of the child from the birth of the child. I can also note that on several occasions, no later than March, the Riksdag has taken a position that it is not appropriate to review the issue of automatic joint custody of unmarried parents.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-452	Mr President, I would like to Indeed, if the parents are married, they automatically have joint custody of the child. However, if the parents are not married, there is no natural right for the father. Then it is up to the mother whether the father should be part of the child's life from the beginning. I think that in 2017, which we have now come a long way into, we should have come a little further when it comes to equal parenthood than handing it over to the mother whether the father should become a part of the child's life. A couple of years ago, or a little more, the Committee on Civil Liberties made a joint position. The committee wanted to see that it was possible to register paternity earlier, i.e. before the child was born. If you have registered paternity before the child's birth, it would be natural to also have joint custody once the child is born. Then, as in a marriage, there is a clearly identified father. Moreover, there is actually no guarantee that the father is the man in the relationship, so it would definitely not be safer because of marriage. Then I may find it strange that the father is constantly being promoted as a potential violator against the child and the mother, because you do not become more potential violators because you are not married. In that case, even if you're married to the mother, you have to be. And if the husband is married to the mother, you can see no problem with the fact that they have joint custody from the child's birth. Of course, we should not give victims of violence, whether male or female, the right to custody of the child, but that must be dealt with in a different way. In fact, it may also be a mother who is unfit for her child. Then there are hopefully some opportunities for society to go in and take away such a person's custody of the child. That fathers in common-law relationships or in relationships where the father and mother do not live together would be worse or more violent, I definitely doubt. Then I think the government has had a very strange view of the father overall. Among other things, the right to insemination was introduced for single women, and suddenly there was no major problem that there was no father in the picture. Then the mother gets all the parents' days. There are many studies that show that children need a present father and that an absent father may present disadvantages later in life. Therefore, it should be the task of society to try to tie the father to the child, so that the child and the father get a sense of each other from birth. Now Norway has introduced automatic joint custody at the birth of the child. It is still too early to say what it will lead to. There has been no follow-up, as far as I know, so far. But I find it hard to imagine that they would have introduced it if they saw such great problems that fathers in cohabiting or unmarried fathers were generally violent.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-462	Mr President, I would like to I think you would take great risks if you were to do what Mikael Eskilandersson is after. I think we know about how it works. If you're married, you automatically get joint custody, because there's a legal bond at the bottom, which we just talked about. If you're not married, but you agree, that's not a problem either. But the case we're looking at here is when you're not married and you don't agree. That is precisely why we are addressing those cases where it can really be completely offensive to do as Mikael Eskilandersson says. This means, for example, that if a child is added after a rape, the rapist would automatically become the guardian of the child. That's totally offensive! Even the Swedish Democrats cannot support this. But it would actually be an effect if we were to go the way that Mikael Eskilandersson advocates. Another case is if the father has subjected the mother to violence, perhaps for a long time, and she does not want to agree to joint custody. If she does not agree to joint custody, it will be a court that makes the assessment from the child's perspective, what is best for the child. That is how it works today, and I think that is correct. But should we go the way that Mikael Eskilandersson wants it to be exactly these offensive situations, and I do not want that. I am not only in favour of equality, but I also see that these situations can often lead to a violent and weaker party being in very bad shape. At this point, the legislator must be on the side of women. As simple as that, I think you can put it. If you do not agree, if the use of violence is at the bottom, such as abuse or other, it is ultimately a court that closes the dispute. But it is in order not to get into these situations that we have this kind of legislation, and that is why we should not go any other way either.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-466	Mr President, I would like to Morgan Johansson was quite healthy when it came to what I said and what I wanted to do. The claim that rapists would receive shared custody of children is directly baroque. I referred to the legislation introduced in Norway. The proposal put forward there clearly states that in cases where there are problems with violence or rape in the background, joint custody should not be granted, but this was the case for cases where the child has come into being in a normal way and with a normal background relationship. It's the same thing when it comes to shared custody after violence against the mother. What I want to have introduced in Sweden is exactly the same legislation that is now being tried in Norway, and it takes into account whether there is violence or rape involved. It is not a forced joint custody in that case. When we eventually have a new set of rules, in which paternity can be signed before the child is born, it would perhaps be appropriate to also introduce joint custody, because even if there is agreement today, it is not the case that you have joint custody on the day the child is born. If, for example, the mother dies at birth, the child may well be without guardians, and this has actually happened on at least a few occasions. That in itself should not have to happen, especially if you can register paternity earlier. If you have registered paternity before giving birth, you should be able to have joint custody, even if you have not filled out the correct papers.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-469	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the cases in which paternity has been registered before, of course, I do not have a firm attitude. Of course there could be an opening. But that is not what this is basically about; it is about reversing the approach, that is, automaticity here should be the basic rule. If you go the way that Mikael Eskilandersson wants to do in a rape situation, it is the rape victim who will wake up and run the process of having joint custody suspended. In Sweden, the legislator stands instead on the side of women in this case. Here, then, the Swedish Democrats initially side with the man, the man who has practiced the violence, and I find this deeply offensive. The order we have today seems to me to be working well, and I am not prepared to change it. When you are in these difficult situations you must feel that you have the legislator in your back.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-472	Mr President, I would like to Morgan Johansson comes back into this with rapes. It is still clear in the bill adopted in Norway that rape and violence in various forms would make the man into a non-pregnant of joint custody. So he would no longer have the right to joint custody. I do not really see any reason why I should explain once again that it is not, of course, these cases that are at issue here. To emphasize the importance of both parents to the child, it should be natural for both parents to have joint custody at birth. It is interesting that Morgan Johansson does not comment on what to do when it comes to mothers who die during childbirth. There, joint custody suddenly disappears, as it is the mother who alone has custody as it looks today. It is a problem that you would get rid of if you had done what we want, that is to give joint custody normally. There must always be a hand valve where you can remove custody from fathers who are unfit. It must also be possible to do so from mothers who are unfit. Even mothers can expose their children to violence. It is not just fathers who can be a problem. I don't see why it would be a much bigger problem with fathers who aren't married to their mother compared to those who are married. Married people automatically get joint custody. However, with today's poor statistics on marriage, we should review the system so that it works even among unmarried parents.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-477	Mr President, I would like to We still have to relate to reality. Mikael Eskilandersson says that there are women who practice violence. Yes, there is, but most of the violence in our society, both inside and outside the walls of the house, is actually practiced by men. The risk of getting into such a situation is therefore much greater for women than for men, and then women should feel that they have the legislator in their backs. If the mother should die in connection with childbirth, which happens very rarely in Sweden, we have an order for it. Then you have to establish paternity afterwards and take the custody issue then. As far as I can judge, it works fine. I believe that Mikael Eskilandersson has constructed a problem that he wants to solve by making a change of system on these important and fundamental issues, but I am not prepared to contribute to that.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-480	Mr President, I would like to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me if I and the government have begun to prepare a new proposal for regulations for the feeding of game and when I and the government will return to Parliament with sharp proposals concerning the feeding of game. The Swedish Parliament did not accept the Government's proposal in bill 2015/ 16:199 Wild boar and game damage because it was considered too far-reaching. The Riksdag then asked the Government to come up with a new proposal that goes more in line with Parliament's views. There have also been proposals from organisations, including the Swedish Hunters' Association, the Swedish Landowners' Association and the Swedish Farmers' Federation, the LRF, which is largely similar to the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture's proposals. The LRF came on 10 March 2017 with a new petition in which the Federation proposes new rules in the hunting legislation that allow the condition, not ban, feeding of cloven-hoofed game. The issue is complex, and it takes time to analyse and prepare how we should proceed with various proposals. At the beginning of the year, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency published a knowledge summary, Feeding cloven-hoofed game – direct and indirect effects on the game and the surrounding environment. Although this summary of knowledge does not provide any concrete solutions or answers for feeding, it will form the basis for the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's continued work on feeding cloven-hoofed game. In addition, research projects are ongoing at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences on how the health of moose can be affected by feeding. Sveaskog AB has recently presented new guidelines for game management and hunting where the feeding guidelines are more strict. The Swedish Hunter Association has been tasked with actively counteracting supportive feeding during the vegetation period. The Government is continuously working on the issue and engaged in the further preparation process and is following the development of various actors' initiatives.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-489	Mr President, I would like to I thank Minister Bucht for his reply. Hunting and game conservation have broad popular support in Sweden. It is deeply rooted in the Swedish people's soul to be in the forest and hunt, and that is welcome. We have a Swedish model for this where cooperation and understanding are perhaps the most important key words. The hunters' association and hunters are here an important voice to talk about how the animals in the forest are doing and how the game tribes are developing. Not least in the game management delegations, Swedish hunters are an important voice that is tamped with others. Add to that that game meat is welcome in a country where we are talking more and more about sustainable food. It's both antibiotic-free and rather lean. Our Swedish model for hunting and game conservation will be protected. We're going to develop it and not phase it out. We should teach others, because since the 1960s we have had a good development for our four large predators and for the game in general in Sweden. On the issue of the feeding of game, the government's proposal was very far-reaching. To propose a general ban was indeed to shoot with the big gun. I fully agree with the fact that there are problems with feeding, but the problem does not concern everything wild. It mainly concerns the feeding of cloven-hoofed game, so that is what should be reviewed and targeted. I can agree that there are problems. For example, if you tip over a truck truck with candy in the woods for animals to eat it and then you're going to hunt them, well, then that's a big problem. However, it is already an environmental crime. But a general ban from which exemption must be sought would also apply to salt stones, tallow balls and other things that are much smaller and actually good game conservation measures that we want to see more of. I hope that the government is actively working on this issue, although it may be complex. In recent years, many issues that have been in the borderland between nature conservation and hunting and wildlife conservation or forestry, such as the Species Protection Regulation, the Ground Law and the Food Strategy, have either been delayed or even remained in a drawer somewhere. It would be a shame if this were to happen here, because this is an issue that we need to move forward with. I hope that the government will take strong action to bring about a good regulatory framework before the end of its term of office, because now it is actually burning in the knots. Is the Government able to develop how he sees the LRF's proposal to condition rather than ban feeding? It would be interesting to take part in it. I agree very much with what the Committee on Environment and Agriculture said last autumn. We want regulation, but it should be area-specific and time-limited. We do not want a general ban on the feeding of animals because it can lead to animals starving, and that would be the wrong way forward for hunting and game conservation in Sweden.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-500	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Jesper Skalberg Karlsson for the opportunity to discuss this so that I can give my view on the issue of feeding game. I agree with Jesper that hunting and game conservation are deeply rooted in the Swedish people's soul. Let me remind you, however, that there are other industries that are also deeply rooted in the Swedish people's soul, namely agriculture and forestry. These suffer enormous damage due to the game. This has been demonstrated and made clear when these issues are addressed in the Hunting Act investigation and in the organisations representing industries. These industries are important for Swedish society. They are important for us to continue to build prosperity in Sweden, and this applies to both agriculture and forestry. Therefore, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson, it was regrettable that the Riksdag voted against our proposal. We don't have any tools today. Jesper says we need to move forward. We had proposals to move forward and really get to grips with this issue. Today we lack tools, and there is no support in hunting legislation. This, of course, has far-reaching consequences for the feeding of game, and this is something that the government wanted and wants to get at. My assessment is that the Alliance's proposal was a haste that lacked impact assessment. It is difficult to implement a proposal in this way without making a substantial addition, which we are looking at. In fact, it's necessary. I do not see that the proposal, as it is written, can fully address the problems that exist with regard to the cloven-hoofed game tribes. According to the Government, reduced feeding leads to less game and reduced damage to both agriculture and forestry. It also leads to fewer road injuries, which are increasing due to the uncontrolled feeding that has taken place for a long time. The proposal put on the table by the government was not a total ban. It was a total ban during the vegetation period, when access to natural feed is available for the game. In addition, the proposal provided a good opportunity for derogations. I do not know what went on in the Alliance when, perhaps just for reasons of prestige, a very well worked-out proposal was reduced. The important industries of agriculture and forestry were not cared for when the proposal was voted down. Just before I got here, I was at LRF's Annual General Meeting. When I left it and stood on the stairs, representatives from the meeting came and said: Bucht! Try to explain to the Alliance how important it is to deal with the feeding of game! I said, I'll try to do what I can.
i-QQqKV4gbsvNzVcXisuvHYN	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I think it's fun that the Government has been at LRF's voice – I think it was a nice event. I have noted that the newly elected President, Palle Borgström, said that ownership is by far his most important issue. I read in Today's Industry yesterday that Minister Bucht does not want to do anything about this, because it says no to a revision of the Species Protection Regulation. This has lifted the forest industry time and again, but the government says no. As far as prestige is concerned, I would say that I am a rather modest Member. On the other hand, there is a lot of prestige with the government, because to be honest, it is not the case that the Riksdag writes draft legislative texts. Constitutionally, Parliament is the legislative power – absolutely – because this is where we vote on laws. But we cannot go to Parliament's investigation service and ask them to draft a bill. That power lies with the government. The government has 4,000 on its government office. I don't see a symmetry of the same level of official attendance in this house. The problem is rather that the government chose not to anchor its proposal for new legislation with the parliamentary parties. This, if anything, is a bit of prestige, if I may review for myself. There are more things that regulate the game population than feeding alone. It is clear that feeding matters, but hunting also matters. What the government has done on the hunting side in recent years has had mixed success. If we look at the weapons directive, the wildlife management delegations and most issues relating to hunting and wildlife conservation in Sweden, we see that it has gone in one direction: against the rather extreme stance of the Green Party. It says that hunting is really less desirable and that it is only forest tourism we should protect. But I don't believe it, not for five cents. There must be a balance. There must be an opportunity to engage in hunting and game conservation as well as nature tourism. It must be possible to have forestry and agriculture. The government could let go of the prestige and stop sulking that they did not get a hearing for their bill. Develop a new bill, or – even better – present a good proposal from the beginning! Putting things out a little bit of a wind for a wave and seeing if they get support or not is not very successful. Why don't we be honest with each other? If one is now concerned that the LRF will get its way and their members are telling Minister Bucht that he will get to grips with this, why does the LRF have something like the Alliance's vision last autumn? Should Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht stand here and say that he thinks as I do? It is an odd attitude from a government that puts forward proposals a little bit and so and which, moreover, may ignore Parliament's announcements when one does not get a response. It is a strange approach, if you sit on the resources to be able to propose legislative changes that make it easier for hunters and game conservation in Sweden. The Government will be happy to clarify what he means. What do you really want? Do you want to come forward with constructive solutions, or do you want to sit and be a little pissed off?
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-515	Mr President, I would like to I would like to give Jesper Skalberg Karlsson a good advice: Visit the forest companies, and talk to the industry in the forest! Visit and talk to farmers in the industry, and listen to what they say about this! Feeding is becoming more common, and feeding all year round. Even during the growing season large loads are tipped, despite the fact that there is access to food naturally. That is regrettable. It significantly increases the risk of injury, and it also increases the risk of road accidents. There are good statistics for this, economic statistics for how much this affects not least agriculture. There are also statistics on how many road injuries it causes. Last year we had a big ollon year, that is very much natural feed, and also high feeding during this time. This, of course, means that there will be a large, growing population of wild game and also extensive damage to agriculture and forestry. Reduced feeding is an important tool, but it is also, of course, a push-off. We have worked a lot on hunting issues to overcome much of the disorder that the Alliance government left behind in terms of hunting issues, not least hunting for large predators. Look at what the wolf hunt looked like – with appeals, stopped hunting, appeals and stopped hunting. Now we have put order into this hunt. Great efforts have been made to make changes in the law and to get the wolf hunt in order. Another hunting question in which the Alliance also caused trouble when they began their reign early in the first round was the hunting of the mountains. The change made there excluded many of our Swedish hunters from hunting where they had hunted for a long time. Just as Jesper Skalberg Karlsson said, the hunt is well anchored in the people's soul. It was ignored, but we have also corrected this. All these things take time. The proposal made by the Riksdag is complex and needs to be properly investigated and highlighted before a new legislative proposal can be drawn up. This is not done in haste.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-521	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for that answer. It is a little strange that I am being asked to meet farmers and forest entrepreneurs and to get out in the country and see the problems. I do it, and I own forest. On the farm where I grew up, I had animals from when I was born. And my family has hunted for generation after generation. I cannot see that I need to go out in real life to see the problems that Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht is trying to give off exist. Of course there are problems, and I want to solve them. I think it's good if the government can come up a little bit out of the trench. They are stuck in the last term of office. Then it was so hard and difficult. But what has the government actually achieved? The Government of Sweden, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, says here that there is now order and order on the hunt for wolves. The Green Party's proposal on the hunting of wolves has been accepted. I'm doubtful if I think it was a desirable implementation from the start. It was quite a mess in the first season when the new proposal had come into force. Nor do I hear any suggestions on how to get ahead with new legislation in this area. I also want the feeding to be regulated. But I do not believe that there is support in the Swedish Parliament for having a general ban. I do not think that is the best solution either. However, if the Government now says that he is going to meet with the committee and come back with legislation in this area that is more in line with what the committee has said, it is welcome. But the question will then be when it will happen. There are many things that are being prepared within the Government Office, but there are quite few who find their way out of there. It would therefore be nice if we could have an answer when this actually comes.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-524	Mr President, I would like to The Alliance's regulation of wolf hunting did not work, Member of Parliament Jesper Skalberg Karlsson. It was even rejected by the Supreme Court in our realm, by the Supreme Administrative Court, because it was not legally certain. That is what we have put right. We have ensured that the hunt is legally secure, that it works and that in practice it also becomes a hunt. It took time to sort out the mess that existed. The question is very complex, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson, and it takes time to analyse it and prepare how to proceed with the various proposals that exist. It takes a lot of work. It requires us to follow the ongoing research on these things. It also requires us to follow the various measures taken by the authorities, companies and non-profit organisations in relation to this work. This is something that the government is working on continuously, and we are following the development of the various actors' initiatives. We want to get things right in this area too. It's not order. This feeding creates enormous economic consequences for both agriculture and forestry today.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-526	Mr President, I would like to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked the Minister for Justice and Migration if the Minister and the Government have begun preparations to present sharp proposals that replace the licensing requirement for bait camera with a notification requirement and when the Minister and the Government intend to return to the Riksdag with sharp proposals that replace the licensing requirement for bait camera with a notification requirement. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. On 14 July 2016, the Government submitted proposal 2015/ 16:199 Wild boar and wild game injuries to the Riksdag. The bill states that there are currently no conditions to proceed with the proposal to replace the permit requirement with a notification procedure but that the government intends to consider the matter further in the context of a review of the Camera Surveillance Act. In the additional directives to the investigation on camera surveillance – law enforcement and privacy protection, the investigator has been commissioned to analyse during the work, among other things, how the adaptation of the camera surveillance law to the EU's new data protection regulation relates to the Hunting Act investigation's proposal on camera surveillance of wild boar eels. In an announcement relating to the bill, the Riksdag urges the Government to return with proposals to replace the permit requirement for camera surveillance with a notification procedure. The investigation into camera surveillance is in its final stage and will report the assignment no later than 15 June 2017. I do not wish to pre-empt the findings of the investigation on this matter. The Government will return to the issue in connection with the preparation of the investigation's proposal.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-529	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. The wild boar strain spreads quite strongly in Sweden. This brings damage, as we heard in the previous interpellation debate, in the form of bök and bök. For farmers, it may be a matter of losing support when wild boars bend up pastures and grasslands. For homeowners, it's about lawn and gardening. And for forestry, it's about the forest roads. These wild boars move across quite large areas. They move over many properties in search of food and place for lega. Addressing this challenge requires a fairly good dialogue between landowners and hunters in cases where it is not the same person. If you look at what the parliament and government are doing for wild boar hunting, it is quite generous to say the least. It is hunted in general hunting time and around the clock. Yearlings are hunted all year round. You can hunt with a dog, you can hunt with fixed lights at the bait and you can use some fishing gear. There are quite a few opportunities to hunt wild boars. But in many parts of the country, populations remain rather dense and problematic. This leads, as I said, to considerable economic damage and, in the long run, also to a loss of faith in the future for those who repeatedly have their land destroyed. In order to deal with this, many people are using precisely the bait cameras, that is, cameras that see the animals as they pass through so that you know where they are and about how many they are. The problem is that there are quite few people seeking permission to set up bait cameras. There are therefore more eight cameras being sold than the county administrative boards have granted permits for. It will then be a matter for policy to consider whether it is sustainable to maintain the system as it stands today. You can do it in different ways. The hunting investigation has suggested that in some sense this authorisation procedure, which is simply not anchored, should be replaced by some kind of notification obligation and that this should be supplemented by the fact that, in places where you have a bait camera, you notice that there is actually a camera there. Something may have happened in recent months, but, as far as I know, there are no eel cameras that have privacy protection, that is, if a human being is caught in the forest instead of a wild boar, they would somehow erase this human being. This system of notification rather than authorisation is something that the majority of the consultation bodies of the Hunting Act investigation have in principle supported. At this point, when we have an announcement from the Riksdag and when the government has set up this investigation, there is reason to ask first of all what the government wants and whether this announcement will be followed by the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture. In the case that this would not be possible to apply because of EU legislation, what other ways does the Government see that it can take? It will be problematic if we have thousands of cameras in the country filming people who don't know they're being filmed. I also believe that if a proposal is made to replace the requirement for authorisation with a notification obligation, the acceptance and willingness to put up signs that there are cameras set up will also increase. It would actually be good for both hunters and the public who are in the forest and land.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-539	Mr President, I would like to I thank Member of Parliament Jesper Skalberg Karlsson for the opportunity to debate the issue of the obligation to report for bait cameras. It has some basis in the hunting team investigation that was presented a number of years ago and one of the interim reports that existed at the time. This interim report dealt with a number of issues, including wildlife damage, feeding and the hunting rights of tenants – but also camera surveillance. The proposal was referred out and received strong criticism, especially from the Swedish Data Protection Authority. This led the Government Office in 2015 to develop a supplementary memo regarding camera surveillance of wild boar sows. Unfortunately, that proposal was also met with criticism, including from the county boards, the LRF and the hunters' organisations. It is also now quite clear that the reform of EU data protection regulation will reduce the scope for national legislation in this area. This, of course, can also have consequences for the regulatory framework in relation to bait cameras; we do not know that today. The ongoing investigation will analyse this and also look at how to adapt the camera surveillance law on these issues to the new EU law in this area and the data protection regulation that exists there. This investigation is just in the final stages, and it will be delivered on 15 June this year. So there aren't many days left, and I don't want to go ahead with the investigation.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-543	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for that statement of reality. Now we know the history, but I'm still wondering what the government thinks. I have three questions:
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-544	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my previous post, the investigation will come in a few days. I want to wait and see what it says before I move on in this.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-545	Mr President, I would like to With that comment, this interpellation debate may be concluded, but I hope that the government will take the announcements from Parliament and the Committee on Environment and Agriculture seriously. It comes very well from there; we heard it in the previous interpellation debate on the feeding of game – a more pragmatic proposal than the total ban proposed by the government. I think that, on this issue too, there is reason to listen to the committee when it comes to tackling bait cameras and their licensing. Otherwise, I'd like to wish you a nice evening. I hope the government is working intensively on the preparations that are in the Government Office. These are some questions that we are waiting for in Parliament, and when they come we will deal with them as best we can. Then the government can reach out and discuss them with the committee if it wants support for them, but I think the Government is aware of this, although he has more prestige than others.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-547	Mr President, I would like to The government wants to create order in the hunt, including eel cameras and wild boar hunting. I'm very careful that we get things sorted out. We have an inquiry into this particular issue. I hope the honourable Member has respect for the fact that we as the government have to wait for an investigation before we run out and say that we should do this or that. I look forward to having the investigation presented, and then, of course, we will take action.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-548	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm has asked the Minister for International Development Cooperation and Climate if the Government shares the view that the EU and other industrialised states' fisheries agreements with poor countries should be terminated or fundamentally transformed, whether the Government intends to raise the issue at the UN Maritime Conference in June and whether the Government will work to transform the fisheries partnership agreements into cooperation projects to develop local and sustainable fisheries. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the question. The government's basic position on the EU's sustainable fisheries partnership agreements is that fishing of EU vessels outside the Union should in principle be carried out under the same conditions as in EU waters, i.e. within the framework of the reformed CFP. EU vessels are now required to be allowed to fish only on the basis of available scientific information on the surplus of stocks not used nationally. This requirement also existed before, but it was further clarified in the last reform. The EU can also suspend an agreement if a coastal state violates fundamental principles of democracy and human rights. These were issues that Sweden actively worked for during the work on the latest reform, but they are also issues that are highlighted when necessary in any discussion of a partnership agreement. Many fish species live far from the coast and are therefore species that the domestic fleet of partner countries does not have the resources to exploit to the full. For some of these countries, fisheries agreements with, among others, the EU are a major source of income. The EU's long-term commitment also contributes to the development and strengthening of fisheries management in the contracting countries. This is done, among other things, by earmarking funds, via EU sectoral support, and through participation in regional fisheries organisations. Follow-up of EU sector support and continued commitment will enable the creation of conditions for living seas with sustainable fish stocks and a sustainable fisheries sector in the contracting countries. The Union's presence may also prevent more private initiatives with more short-term interests from taking over. If the EU terminates an agreement, private operators and other fisheries nations with more short-term interests would probably increase their fishing activities. Such development risks hindering the work of sustainable management. The government therefore intends to continue to work constructively to improve these agreements within the framework set out in the fisheries policy. Having said that, global fisheries are nevertheless facing major challenges. Overexploitation and illegal fishing have led to more than 30 percent of the world's marine stocks still being overfished, a development that has not been reversed despite decades of work. It is therefore important that we continue to work together at a global level to promote sustainable fisheries as part of a sustainable, ocean-based economy. That is why I look forward to attending the UN Maritime Conference on Objective 14 which will start in New York next week. Healthy seas and viable fish stocks are fundamental to our environment and to combating poverty, food security and creating prosperity for millions of people.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-556	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for the answer to my interpellation. I put it to Minister for Climate and Development Isabella Lövin, and it is Isabella Lövin who will lead the Swedish delegation at the New York Sea Conference next week. As I understand it, the sea conference is very much her idea. However, it will be exciting to discuss the issue also with Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, who will also be on site in New York. At the Maritime Conference, Sweden can highlight important fisheries issues, and I very much hope that they will. One of the issues that I think has been forgotten here is our responsibility for fisheries in poor countries. The EU has concluded some fourteen fisheries agreements with developing countries, preferably in Africa, and many of them are old colonies of the EU. The plan is for the EU to pay a sum, almost exclusively financed with our tax resources, to a poor country – it could be Gabon, Cape Verde, Tanzania, Guinea-Bissau and so on – for European fishing fleets to fish off its coast. There is hardly any local processing of fish caught, but it is processed in Europe. It is also in Europe that the great value of the fish being fished is created. What the Minister mentioned earlier, that you should only fish for a surplus, is also very questionable. In many countries, for example, along the coast of West Africa, fish are almost completely depleted, and it is very difficult to assess whether there is a surplus or not. These countries simply do not have that capacity. I wonder, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, why we do not stop with these fisheries agreements which actually plunder poor countries on their fish and instead take this EU money and turn the agreements into development projects to develop a local sustainable fisheries where the fish that you land locally is also processed. I think that Sweden should be able to raise this at the maritime conference. The European Union has a huge responsibility in this context. However, it is a good thing that it is a UN conference in New York, because there are also other players who plunder poor countries on their fish, such as China, and therefore it would be such an excellent opportunity to raise the issue of ending the neo-colonial fisheries agreements at the maritime conference. That was my simple question in the interpellation, Mr President, and I note that I do not receive a concrete answer from Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht to my specific question, namely: Does the Swedish Government intend to raise the issue of these fisheries agreements at the conference in New York? Does Sweden intend to promote the replacement of these agreements by a development project aimed at developing local and sustainable fishing activities?
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-564	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jens Holm, for raising this important issue, and thank you also for your great commitment! This is an important issue, and certainly there are shortcomings in the agreements. There is definitely room for improvement, and that is something that Sweden has been pushing in the discussions ahead of the EU's negotiations with these states. Therefore, I am also convinced that it is important that the government continues to work in this way and continues to work to improve these agreements. It is better to be involved in the discussions than to stand outside, Jens Holm. If we stand outside, we cannot influence the agreements in any way. That is the case in negotiations. The government intends to continue working in this constructive way and constantly improve the agreements. Sweden is pushing a lot for the fishing fleets themselves to pay. It should not go beyond the EU budget. Today, about 25% of fishing fleets are paid for, but we are pursuing a line of paying more. We are also pushing the line that sectoral aid is being given to these states to develop fisheries. The agreements are transparent and verifiable, and there are committees that follow up the agreements as well as compliance with scientific advice and if it changes. Fishing issues will be raised at the New York Conference. Particularly sustainable fisheries will be affected. Ghost fishing will be touched. However, the question of concluding the EU agreements and changing into something else will not be raised in the way Jens Holm argues in his interpellation. I would like to ask Jens Holm: What do you see in front of you? What would happen if Europe were to break the agreements and not keep them? Can I hear your point of view on this?
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-570	Mr President, I would like to At least then I received a black-and-white answer that the Swedish Government does not intend to lift up the EU's and other countries' agreements with poor countries, which rob these countries of their fishing resources. I think it is unfortunate that we do not take the opportunity to go to what is perhaps the most important maritime and fishing conference of the decade, namely the big conference in New York. It is indeed a missed opportunity, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. Perhaps it has little to do with the fact that the Swedish Government has voted for these neo-colonial agreements on eight occasions since you came to power in autumn 2014. These are the agreements with Mauritania, Guinea-Bissau, Cape Verde, Gabon and so on, which are based on the fact that with our tax money we are funding large European fleets to fish all their fish. There is no local value added, no local jobs are created. Let me take a concrete example, namely the agreement with Mauritania which Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht and his government voted in favour of. It is the largest fisheries agreement among African countries: EUR 59 million, i.e. approximately SEK half a billion, is paid each year, most of which is paid to European fishing fleets. Less than a tenth of the money in this agreement goes to so-called sectoral aid, i.e. to develop some form of local fishing and processing. Almost all fish caught along Mauritania's coast under this agreement, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, are not landed in Mauritania. It is landed in the Canary Islands, Spain. Almost not one of the fishermen on the many fleets comes from Mauritania, but it is European fishermen – French, Spanish and so on – who fish the fish. I would like to ask Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht what profits this agreement has for Mauritania. What is the benefit of having such an agreement more than getting some money from the EU? It is possible, but frankly, it would not be better if Sweden and the European Union extended their hand to Mauritania and said: we take these EUR 59 million each year and help you develop your fishing! That is exactly what the Mauritanian Government wants. They want to develop local fishing and local processing. But that is not what this agreement is for, because it does not work that way. Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht asked me a specific question, and I will try to answer it. What would happen if these neo-colonial fisheries agreements were abandoned? Of course, we can be masters and decide for ourselves. If we decide that we want the agreements instead to turn into cooperation projects to develop local and sustainable fisheries, then that is exactly what I see in front of me. I also note, as I mentioned in my interpellation, that after the liberation of Namibia was one of the first things it did to abandon its fisheries agreement with the EU. Instead, it was said that it wanted to develop its own fishing, and it has gone quite well for Namibia since then. The EU certainly did not want this, but Namibia has developed its own fisheries. This information is available in the Silent Sea, which is written precisely by Isabella Lövin and which is a harsh estimate of the EU's neo-colonial fisheries agreement.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-580	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to Jens Holm he suggests a lot of things. But if you stand outside, as he says we are going to do, you will never be able to improve the agreements. Nothing is going to happen, and perhaps it is going in a worse direction. Sweden has said yes to a number of agreements, but we have also said no to a number of agreements. It concerns the agreement with Morocco. We have said no to the agreement with Senegal. We abstained on the agreement with Guinea-Bissau because there were uncertain stock data and it was difficult to ensure whether there was a surplus. These questions are being examined. The EU's agreement is not a looting, Jens Holm. The EU's agreements are probably the best agreements that those countries can currently get. Most of the agreements are about tuna. These tuna agreements mean that EU fleets – Spain and France in particular – are using them – fish far off the coast where locals do not even have such vessels as to be able to fish. There is a good scientific basis for this. There are good analyses of tuna agreements. They are also less likely to compete with local fisheries. In the case of mixed stock agreements, there may be a little more uncertainty about them. The stock estimates are a little more uncertain. Although fishing 12 nautical miles off the coast and EU vessels do not come into direct contact with local vessels, it is estimated that it is being fished on the same stocks that move in the waters. We have to bring it in. As I said in my first post, I am happy for Jens Holm's commitment. But try to keep your voice down a bit. It is not a looting that the EU is doing. However, there is an obvious risk if the EU leaves the agreements that there will be private operators, private fishing fleets, who will not give any money at all to, for example, sector support for developing fisheries in these countries. We know that it is a fact that China, Japan and Russia have increased their long-distance fishing fleets. There are several in line if the EU leaves this. I don't think Jens Holm wants that kind of fishing if other types of actors come into this area. As far as Namibia is concerned, I would like to congratulate Namibia on their own efforts.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-587	Mr President, I would like to Of course it is fantastic with countries that take matters into their own hands, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. In Namibia's case, it frees itself from decades of oppression, untapped apartheid rule and so on, and also old neo-colonial fisheries agreements with the EU. You take matters into your own hands and develop your own fishing and local processing. Your way of arguing, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, is the argument of resignation. If we don't, someone else will, so that's why we're gonna do it. How can you be so sure this will happen? We know that the countries of Africa want to develop their own fisheries. They want nothing more than that, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. They want the money to be invested in developing locally sustainable fishing with local processing so that they can create jobs on the ground. Then why shouldn't we help them with that, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht? You say I stand by the side, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. It's the other way around. Perhaps we have here the most important maritime conference of this decade, and you are not going to raise the question. Why not? This issue has an incredibly important bearing on poverty reduction, local sustainable development and, of course, on how we manage our fish stocks in a sustainable way. You say you only fish out at sea. Apparently, that's not a big problem. But vastly many of the stocks on the coast of West Africa are overexploited or at least fully exploited. They won't last much longer. There is very little opportunity to estimate the stocks at all. Is it not time for another line in fisheries policy, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, which is both fair, solidarity and sustainable?
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-593	Mr President, I would like to I understand that Jens Holm wants the agreements to end and to be transformed into something he calls cooperation projects. I don't think that's the way to go. These agreements, as I have said, are, of course, not optimal. But they are the best thing for these states at the moment. There is a very great risk if we were to follow Jens Holm's path that these countries would have big problems with their fishing. That is why I will not raise this in New York at the conference as Jens Holm here proposes – that we take up the EU's agreements and say that they will stop. On the other hand, we will be discussing a great many fisheries issues. Among other things, we will have an FAO conference where we will discuss illegal fishing, illegal fishing. We will also have dialogues on the importance of ecosystems for the development of fish species. It is important that we get scientific studies spread across the globe. Selective gears must also be developed in order for us to have sustainable fishing. We'll discuss the blue economy. The government has adopted a strategy on sustainable seas that we will share with many of the developing countries that are there. I think we can add a lot, Jens Holm, if we are having discussions. We also meet the best agreements that can be reached for these countries. Doing as you say, Jens Holm, and standing outside will not solve anything. I think that makes the situation of the poor countries worse.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-599	Mr President, I would like to Sten Bergheden has asked me what measures I intend to take to increase the capacity of the Western Tribal Line. Sten Bergheden has also asked me what measures I intend to take to renovate the existing tracks and what measures I intend to take to remove the bottlenecks which are currently causing delays for large parts of traffic in West Sweden. Sten Bergheden has recently asked me a written question about the measures I intend to take to remove bottlenecks and thereby increase the capacity of the Western Tribal Line. I answered that question on 17 May. The answer I can give here today is the same as I gave then. The Government submitted an infrastructure bill to the Riksdag last autumn with proposals for a historically large investment in Sweden's infrastructure. In the bill, the Government proposed that the financial framework for the next twelve-year planning period 2018 – 2029 should increase by more than SEK 100 billion to a total of SEK 622.5 billion. The Riksdag decided in accordance with the Government's direction. On 23 March 2017, the Government adopted a directive on action plans for the period 2018 – 2029. This means that Trafikverket has been commissioned to develop a proposal for a national traffic law-crossing plan for the development of the transport system and that the county planners will develop proposals for county plans. Trafikverket will present the proposal for a new national plan to the Government by 31 August 2017 and the county planners will present their proposals for county plans by 31 January 2018. The action plan identifies the actions to be prioritised. This work will examine and analyse new projects and measures at both national and regional level. Considerations need to be made to see how the issue of measures relating to the capacity of the Western Tribal Line can be taken into account in the context of this work. I do not, therefore, wish to anticipate this process and to comment on individual measures.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-603	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. The reason for the interpellation debate is that I would like some kind of information from the Minister on what the Minister intends to do to expand the Western Tribal Line. The Minister has explained in his reply that the preparation is in progress, as I know of course. But the interesting thing is to see what the Minister and the government want with the Western Main Line and how to work further. That is a bit the reason for the interpellation debate. I do not really feel the same obvious that the Minister and the Government see the West Main Line as important both for Sweden and for West Sweden, both for growth and for jobs and commuting when it comes to both goods and people. This part, not just high-speed trains, should be given more attention. We know that the Minister and the Government go around and speak warmly for a high-speed venture in Sweden despite the fact that investigations indicate that each invested crown will give back perhaps a maximum of 60 öre in increased growth. Municipalities and regions are also being pressured to co-finance in the form of money, land, apartments, etc. to make the calculation go together if possible. These agreements will then have to stand by municipalities and taxpayers in the future and continue to pay on whatever progress they have made. Mr President, I would like to The high-speed project does not make sense. We are also talking about borrowing money, and we are talking about using pension funds, that is, borrowing from pensioners. What pensioner wants to bet 1 krona and get back 60 öre? Because you're not going to fool pensioners and use their pension money and then give them a bad return on the money that's in the pension funds? Another option that has been put forward is that one might consider selling companies or assets in companies to finance an unprofitable high-speed train. Mr President, I would like to It is about twice as expensive to build high-speed trains as to build conventional rail, which means that we get almost twice as much ordinary rail for the money that is planned to plow down into a high-speed train. At the same time, the government is trying to sell this high-speed train. But we know that it will be completed perhaps at the earliest in 2040, which means an enormous amount of time before we have the full effect of such an investment. We already have a great need today to increase the capacity of our railways. Then, of course, is the easiest and most direct way to increase the capacity to expand our main roads. The West Main Line has been around for over a hundred years, and infrastructure and other things around it have in the meantime been developed and expanded, making it an extremely good route for both passenger transport and freight transport today. But the bottlenecks must be removed. A study has therefore been developed that looks at how to increase the capacity of the Western Main Line. It is about building two new tracks from Alingsås to Gothenburg to increase growth. Such an effort would amount to 14 billion. If we compare this with an investment in high-speed trains, where there are estimates of up to 230 billion, there is an enormous increase in the capacity of the railways and the West Main Line if we were to invest in its expansion instead. I would therefore like to ask the Minister three questions. The first is: do you intend in any way to use pensioners' money, funds or the like to finance the expansion of an unprofitable high-speed train?
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-613	Mr President, I would like to I have to start by saying that I am happy every time a moderate places an interpellation and wants more rail and more railway maintenance. For this did not sound quite moderate in the eight years in which you were in power. At the end it improved a little bit, but I venture to remind myself once again what the then Finance Minister said about the fact that we had grossly overinvested in rail in Sweden and that we should not really make any investments at all. One should only invest in roads, he said. Let me also remind you that in the first budget debate after this government took office in autumn 2014, i.e. the 2015 budget, the Moderates voted against a budget that contained EUR 1.24 billion more for rail maintenance for 2015. Then the government has contributed SEK 1.34 billion per year in the remaining years of the mandate, because we see that it is absolutely necessary to increase rail maintenance. The West Main Line is no exception. On the contrary, very much is currently being done on it in a large project that runs over several years with about 70 different measures – both minor maintenance measures and major renovations and even new construction along the route. The Getingmidjan will be rebuilt to increase capacity, and Olskroken will be rebuilt to increase capacity. It's about track changes, contact line changes, change of gear, and so on. It is a huge effort that will of course increase capacity and improve accessibility on the Western Tribal Line. It would be interesting to know if Sten Bergheden knows which government decided on the national plan we now have – the one that applies from 2014 to 2025. There are no funds set aside for the extension of the Western Tribal Line, as far as I am aware. On the other hand, it was the same government that decided on the national plan that also gave Sweden the negotiation, the then Sweden building, its mission. It was about investigating the conditions for, or rather to come up with proposals for, how a high-speed railway expansion in Sweden could take place. So it is a rather late turn from a moderate point of view when one suddenly thinks that high-speed track is something utterly reprehensible. As late as July 2014, they were very keen to start building high-speed rail. I believe that Sten Bergheden really knows that the government is not proposing alternative financing for high-speed rail development. It is quite clear to read in the infrastructure bill, which I assume Sten Bergheden has read, that we are thinking of a multi-stage extension in which each stage can be defended in a strict priority against other urgent measures in the transport system. This shall be financed by public funds. Perhaps we do not need to spend much more time on the concerns of pensioners' money, because it is quite clearly black and white in the bill that the extension should be financed by government funds over the tax bill. This should take place in stages at the pace allowed by the economy and in a way that avoids crowding out other urgent measures in the transport system. Sten Bergheden can be completely calm. He can also give a thought of gratitude to the voters, who chose a government that invests in rail transport.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-621	Mr President, I would like to In fact, it is never dangerous to investigate one thing. You can do as the Alliance government did and look at building a high-speed train to see what it costs and whether it is profitable or not. If the final report then shows that it is not profitable and that it costs a great deal more than was expected, the government that has investigated the matter often draws on the handbrake. It is said that you have calculated and investigated the matter and that you say no because it does not last. That is the serious thing about this government; it starts to gas instead. This is a bad enough investment, so we're going to kick-start it right away, the government is thinking. You travel around the country and try to get co-financing and solutions to get the economy together at all. Mr President, I would like to It is clear that by building in the step-by-step extension, we will not know when the high-speed train is extended in Sweden. This means that we do not know when the capacity we will have of a high-speed train will be delivered. That is what I mean in the interpellation debate here: it is about the fact that if we expand our main lines for the equivalent of this money, we will get a rearmament that will give enormous more growth immediately than if we start to expand something that we will have full capacity of in maybe 20 – 25 years. Furthermore, we do not even know whether we will have the capacity we hope for. The second thing we already know today is that there is a need for reconstruction. The Minister clearly replies that pensioners should not be involved in paying for this. Then I would like to ask a supplementary question: is it also the case that it is not intended to use any form of sale of companies or other assets of state money to finance the expansion? Is it supposed to go right over the tax bill? It would be good if we could have a clear answer on this point too. 230 billion to expand a high-speed train and 14 billion to reinforce the Western Main Line – this means that we would have had a capacity increase that would have been hugely better on the Western Main Line. We had secured the transports we need to have down to the port of Gothenburg in terms of goods and above all commuting for people travelling on the Western Main Line on a daily basis. I now come to my question. The commitment that the government has shown to try to get through a high-speed drive in Sweden – will it also show itself now, when working on the main roads, so that they also try to prioritise them in the next framework? Surely some will must the government have with regard to our main roads? I know that they are being partly expanded today, but both the Minister and I often go on the main railway, and there is rarely a train arriving on time. There are quite a lot of waiting times everywhere, and it costs an enormous amount of money. In this situation, spending on high-speed trains instead of maintaining and renovating our main roads seems to be unnecessarily expensive. We also know that high-speed trains are hardly profitable in the rest of the world either. In China, for example, you do not stop at stations that correspond to the stations in Stockholm and Gothenburg, but you pass them because they are so small cities. Here we build high-speed trains between those cities and think that the trains will stop at more places along the road. This testifies to the fact that this is not well thought out. My questions will be: Will any corporate money be used for this? Is there any political will from the government to continue to expand the Western Main Line and invest the SEK 14 billion needed to build Alingsås – Gothenburg completed during this period?
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-629	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my previous speech, it was the previous government that gave Sweden the mandate to investigate not whether but how an expanded high-speed network in Sweden, new main roads, would be realized, and make proposals about it. That mission was given to the then government, and that mission has been fulfilled since the present government. At the same time, we have been very careful to say that this must not be a cuckoo who crowds out other urgent initiatives. Of course, we should always spend taxpayers' money as carefully and seriously as possible, making the efforts and taking the measures that bring the best benefit. This sometimes means taking a leap in development. We see how the railway capacity in Sweden in many places is not enough – there are more people who would like to drive trains today than there is space on the tracks – and then you have to take height to expand the capacity and also see if there are other benefits that you can get by, for example, connecting larger labour market regions and thus creating more jobs and getting more attractiveness for business start-ups and thus a positive development in Sweden. We have a growing population, and we have forecasts showing an increase in transport work. V i need to take height also for the future. We cannot build for the next ten years alone. What we're building today is for our children and grandchildren to use. Sten Bergheden mentioned that the Western Stambanan has been around for over a hundred years. Yes, and so will the courses we are building today. We need to keep a balance in dealing with the problems we have today. That is why the government has invested 1.34 billion more each year during this term of office, with the exception of the first year in which the Moderates and some other parties voted against, for increased rail maintenance because we see that too few trains arrive on time. The national plan is not just about high-speed trains. I think Sten Bergheden knows that, too. We have written a bill that points to freight availability, cross-border transport and strengthened labour market regions. In the Action Plan directives, we also point out that the potential for increased housing construction should be considered when planning for new infrastructure. We need to turn the entire transport system into more sustainable and fossil-free. We need to seize the opportunities offered by digitalisation and automation. There are great challenges and opportunities in the development of the transport system. When Sten Bergheden stands here and sounds like the government only talks about high-speed railway in Sweden, it is at best a misunderstanding and at worst something else. We're investing in railway maintenance. This is the largest single increase in the infrastructure bill. We have added a directive on action plans that contains substantially more than high-speed rail expansion, but we believe that we also need to increase the transport needs of the future and already plan to connect more locations in Sweden with a capacity-strong and climate-strong mode of transport, that is, high-speed trains. I also said in my previous speech that we intend to build high-speed roads at the pace allowed by the economy, step by step so that each stage can defend itself in relation to other urgent efforts, and that it should be done through government funding, that is, no other alternative funding. That's what the bill says. If, in a number of years' time, a different assessment is made, I cannot decide today, but what is in the bill and what is the government's announcement today is that this expansion will take place with appropriations over the state budget.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-638	Mr President, I would like to To clarify: If you start a project that will cost over SEK 230 billion, you must have an ambition to complete it. That the government is trying to cover up some of it and that you start part of this project and put the rest outside the next financing plan is only one way to enter the future so that this high-speed train will continue to be built, i.e. it will be that Kökungen who pushes away all other investments, such as the Trollhättan locks and bridges in Gothenburg so that we do not get the goods down from Vänern. We have problems in West Sweden because we do not expand the infrastructure that needs to be expanded in the area. It is about the locks, it is about bridges that are high enough and it is about the Western main railway to secure goods and passenger transport, not least to the port of Gothenburg. This is the engine in Sweden to keep Sweden going, so that our trade and shipping will work so that we get our goods and get our goods out. To put it at risk by launching a project and a mortgage on the future of 230 billion is irresponsible when we already know that this does not make sense. We know that. We invest 1 krona and get back 60 öre, and it does not get better even if it goes 30 or 40 years, but rather it gets even worse because then we have not taken home that investment in time but spent money that does not have the full effect in the economy. I am more concerned about the fact that it has been locked up so hard that this initiative must be carried out at all costs instead of making a move and looking at what other solutions we have that would actually be better for Sweden's jobs and growth. Build our main tracks and make sure they work first! Then we can look further at new constructions on the railways.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-641	Mr President, I would like to It can well be said that infrastructure investment is a bit so that it is often very long and large commitments. Many objects run into the next planning period. It is almost in the nature of the matter because it is such long lead times and so long planning times. So did the previous government, and so did the government before that. I think it is extremely important that we have such a system in Sweden that every four years we update the plan we have and make sure that it is as good as possible as planning conditions to also get an efficiency in how we push forward this type of large and expensive project. I do not know how that in itself would be worrying. I do not really believe that Sten Bergheden believes that all that is in the plan from the previous government would also have been completed before the end of the planning period, which is up to as far as 2025. We see great needs in the transport system in Sweden. We have had a neglected maintenance on the railway for a long time. We have a demand for rail travel and freight transport than there is room for. We need to do things. This government does. We invest considerably more in rail maintenance because we see that it is absolutely necessary. There are now 70 individual measures to ensure accessibility and punctuality on the Western Tribal Line alone for a number of years. I think it's great, and I think we need to do even more. That is why we are also increasing the funding for railway maintenance into the next planning period by 47 %. This is a significant increase that will make a big difference in the rail system. As long as it is a social democratic and environmental-partisan government, Sten Bergheden needs no concern for the trains. If, on the other hand, there is a change of government, the concern may be justified.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-644	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked Minister Gabriel Wikström if his position is that horseback riding is well-being and what measures he is prepared to take to strengthen equestrian sport. The work within the government is now so divided that it is I who should answer the interpellation. As the interpellant is aware, the question of whether horseback riding should be included in the wellness benefit is a matter for the Tax Agency and our courts. The extent of the wellness benefit is something that engages many people. In previous interpellation debates, both Minister Wikström and Minister for Finance have answered that the question will be the subject of preparation during the term of office. There are many aspects, such as equality and equality, that need to be analysed. Riding and other forms of horseback riding are excellent examples of sport and exercise, and it is the government's stated goal that more people should exercise sport and exercise regardless of the forms of it. It is not in my interest, or in the interests of the government, in the context of state sports policy, to give particular benefit to one sport over others. Under this government, as the interpellier knows, state aid to the sports movement is estimated to increase by a total of SEK 227 million per year.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-648	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. I'm a little perplexed about the answer. It sounds very strange that it would not be in the interest of the Minister or the government in the context of state sports policy to particularly benefit one sport over others. The question is about the health care benefit. Almost all sports, except for four, are included in what is deductible. It is not a question of equestrian sport benefiting if it were to be included there. I have debated with the Minister for Health and also the Minister for Finance in this House many times. The answer is often irritated and soaring. That's too bad. I will deal later in the debate with all the advantages that would exist if horseback riding were to become a health benefit. During Almedalen 2014, the Swedish Riding Association organised a hearing on horseback riding. It was about that it should be included in the health care allowance, based on the research that exists. There is evidence that people who have different problems with the locomotor system but also people who do not feel well in the soul feel good by riding. At the hearing in Almedalen, an overwhelming part of the parties were in favour of horseback riding. Then, in July 2014, no one knew who would be in charge of government, and S and MP were two of the parties that were in favour of horseback riding. For me, the question is a source of great frustration. I don't understand. I would like us to discuss formula. What can be changed? The answer, both to written questions and in debates on this issue in this House, is often that it is an authority that decides which sports and sports should be included in this benefit. If a majority of parties now want horseback riding to be included, based on evidence and research, where should the issue be raised? Does an authority alone decide what is to be included? This government also appoints investigations in party and minute. It would be appropriate to set up an investigation to review whether we should have the wellness benefit at all and which sports, sports or types of wellness should be included in it. The least the government can do is initiate a review to review how this works. What's in it for? How much money does it cost? Does it produce the desired effect, etcetera? Finally, I want to share something great that Winston Churchill said: There is something about the outside of the horse that is good for the inside of man.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-655	Mr President, I would like to As far as the latter is concerned, I can only agree. I have practiced equestrian sports myself, as have my daughters. I therefore understand exactly what Lotta Finstorp means. However, if we are to talk about the framework for staff care benefits, my view is that it is not really intended to be a support system for different sports. It is therefore a little simplistic when these debates express themselves, which I have followed a frequent practice, such as the discrimination of certain sports compared with others. For me, personnel care is primarily a public health and occupational safety issue. I know that many people do equestrian sports in Sweden today. I think there are almost half a million practitioners in Sweden, many of whom are women and girls, not least young girls. It is a sport that is strongly dominated by girls. However, it is far from certain that everyone who practises equestrian sports in Sweden today, among these women and girls, is also employed – if you are to be really careful. The fact is that during this parliamentary term, the government has increased the funding for sport by some 230 million, as I said in my initial reply. Hopefully, some have also benefited from the equestrian sport. This is the way to benefit all those who practice equestrian sports. We have to be a little careful when we talk about which sports are a staffing benefit. For example, mountain climbing, billiards, darts, fishing, shooting, speedway etcetera are not included. I believe that Lotta Finstorp is well aware of the interpretation that the Swedish Tax Agency makes on this issue. I think that the government, both the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Health, Mr Wikström, has made clear on several occasions in this House that the matter will be the subject of preparation in the Government Office. We'll look at it. We're going to do a thorough analysis. There are various aspects that play a role, such as equality and equality. If you are to be really careful, there was no change in this area in the eight years that we had an alliance government. I have followed the way the debate has been held in this House in relation to the current government, in an interpellation debate after an interpellation debate. The government has come back with the message we are now giving. We are two and a half years into a term of office. We have promised that we will come back to this during our term of office. We will do the same. That's our message.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-662	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for an important debate. I am still frustrated that when the question comes up, it gets irritated. I very much agree with the Minister that the Alliance Government, for example during the last parliamentary term, should have reviewed what should be included in the wellness benefit. Now there are various treatments there, such as swimming in a saltwater barrel or something similar. Therefore, there should have been a review of what it should look like. Should we keep it at all? That is quite an essential question. The Minister addresses an important aspect. It is important not to confuse this with the horseback riding, which has 500 000 practitioners. It is extremely important that equestrian sport as such should have the money and opportunities it needs, for example that municipal facilities are efficient and modern based on animal welfare legislation, etc. And it should be available to everyone. The Minister also addresses gender equality regarding the wellness benefit. From that point of view, horseback riding is really a girl's sport. Although more and more boys ride, it is important to look at what a woman who has back pain and who is employed would have to do and can take part in the wellness benefit. Then maybe it's just the horseback riding. But it's gotten so weird. An activity such as riding falls outside the Swedish Tax Agency's definition of exercise and wellness, despite its recognised good effects on body and health. It is also a question of not having sports and sports that cost a lot of equipment. If you link the health care allowance to riding at an approved riding school, you can borrow the horse, helmet, safety vest and boots – you can borrow everything. The saddle is on the horse. You pay for your riding lesson. It is a little strange when you say that it must not be some kind of health care that requires expensive equipment, because it does not do riding if you connect it to a riding school approved by the Ridsports Association or to another approved activity. The first thing that makes me stand here is that I want to get through a review of what we mean by health care. A clear definition of this would be needed. People get in touch and wonder why horseback riding is not included when there are a lot of other wellness activities on the list. Since then, horseback riding is also a fairly well-known area of both physical and mental rehabilitation. We will soon have a further interpellation debate on mental illness. There is also the horse as part of this. At Ersta-Sköndal-Bräcke University College, a number of research projects are ongoing with the overall goal of contributing to comprehensive knowledge of the horse's therapeutic function and significance in different parts of human care. This can also be seen from preventive measures, given the nature of the sick leave rates. It is important that you feel good before it has gone so far that you end up on sick leave. Surely the horseback riding must nevertheless be seen as a particularly health-promoting one? The concept of health care has become so broad that it will be extremely difficult to pinpoint what the definition should look like.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-672	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for the wise contribution on this issue, which has tended to be quite polarized! Basically, it is about what you touched on at the end, namely the review by the Tax Agency of what it is that should be covered and what it is that should not be covered. What is it justified for the employer to deduct in order for the staff to stay healthy, and what should be considered as personal living expenses? Lotta Finstorp referred to the definition to which the Swedish Tax Agency refers. It should continue to be a matter of simpler sports that can be practiced by almost everyone. I have put myself into this issue, and I do the same reflection as Lotta Finstorp does. It is indeed a very broad palette of wellness that can be covered. I have also noted in previous debates that ice hockey, for example, may be interesting to compare with horseback riding when it comes to the costs of equipment and other things that it entails exercising that sport. It is a question of finding a balance in legislation. We from the government have said that we will carry out an analysis during this parliamentary term to look at the issue and see if a better balance can be found. But as Lotta Finstorp knows, it is about finding a different wording in the legislation that makes the lists different. As far as I understand it is not simply, but it is at least something that we should take on. At the same time, of course, a balance needs to be struck – to go back to my first speech – that personnel care should primarily concern public health and occupational safety and health issues and not replace the cost of living. I believe that we are fundamentally in agreement here. We will do this analysis and these considerations to see if we can find a better model that makes it easier and perhaps more modern to assess the lists – based on how people in Sweden today prefer to practice fitness care, perhaps based on the knowledge that exists about what contributes to well-being. In the end, this is interesting here.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-678	Mr President, I would like to This is probably the third time that I have taken part in such a debate in this House. What I am pleased about is the promise of a review and an analysis that looks at the issue. As the Minister says, there are new findings. If I can make a contribution, the wellness benefit – if it is to remain, which I assume it will be – should look at what evidence and research is available to make it part of the concept of public health and wellness. What many people – and I too – are upset about is that you don't understand how some sports and health care have been included on the list while others haven't. That is the big problem. When people ask about the horseback riding, there is no answer. Riding is not a materialistic snob sport. It feels so outdated that you have put it aside because you have claimed that it is a material sport. I find it extremely strange. I monitor the review and analysis when it comes, and I keep my fingers crossed because horseback riding is included as one of the new sports within the benefit.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-683	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for a committed and knowledgeable debate on this issue! I have learned even more during the preparations for the interpellation debate. I thank you for the debate and look forward to coming back with further information.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-684	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked Gabriel Wikström : The work within the government is now so divided that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Let me start with a somewhat broader perspective. The government has high ambitions in terms of health. The government has set a long-term goal: D e effective health gaps should be closed within a generation. Because although health in Sweden is generally good, it is not for everyone. Mental ill-health is a major and growing social problem. The proportion of people experiencing and reporting mental illness has increased since the early 1990s. The government has a broad programme of measures to combat sick leave, which is starting to produce results. It is now important for me to follow up and when it is necessary to develop the action programme. The research shows that workplace-related interventions shorten sick leave due to mental illness. An important part of the action programme is to ensure that early action is taken in the workplace when an employee is affected by mental illness. For the government, the Swedish model is fundamental, and we have therefore offered the social partners to agree on measures to reduce sick leave at the workplace. The parties have submitted a declaration of intent for each sector. For the government, it is particularly important that measures are taken for a sustainable working life before a sick leave needs to be made up to date. The new regulations of the Swedish Work Environment Authority on organizational and social work environment will be a tool for preventing social and organisational risks to the working environment and clarifying the responsibility for these issues. On behalf of the Government, the National Board of Health and Welfare has prepared new recommendations on sick leave periods for mental diagnoses. There is now a greater differentiation of sick leave periods depending on the severity and co-morbidity of the disease. There are more diagnoses where the recommendation is a partial sick leave or no sick leave. Mild first time depression is an example of when sick leave is not recommended. As I mentioned, the broad approach of the government has already had an impact on the development of sick leave. Försäkringskassan's forecasts show that there are good conditions for achieving the targets set by the government for the sickness benefit rate for 2020. In 2016, the government adopted a new strategy in the area of mental health that applies in 2016 – 2019. The Government's strategy will stimulate the development of prevention and promotion work in general but also early intervention to those who are not well or at risk of mental illness. The Government allocates approximately SEK 1 billion per year during the period 2016 – 2019 for interventions in psychiatry and mental health. Through an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council, the Government uses SEK 885 million of the investment in 2017 to stimulate and support the principals' work on mental health. The Government's strategy will stimulate the development of prevention and promotion work in general but also early intervention to those who are not well or at risk. We will focus on creating the conditions for finding long-term solutions with joint responsibility in regular structures. Although we have had many good projects, it is above all long-term sustainable structures that are needed. An important part of creating a long-term perspective is also that we can have a good dialogue across block borders and agree on as much as possible.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-691	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It shows that the government's action programme to combat sick leave is being followed up by the Minister, and that is absolutely excellent and important. But it is of the utmost importance to find solutions for people not to get sick and not to suffer fatigue depression. We must try to identify the core of the issue and then find political solutions as far as possible. The Social Insurance Agency recently produced an interesting but worrying report on mental illness and health rates. The Minister and I have often stood in this Chamber debating and discussing this urgent issue. The situation is alarming. Probably part of the solution exists in several different ways. I think the cause analysis is often lacking. What is the reason for this? There is a concern when you see that the rates of sick leave are reduced in part, because it may be because the directives are tougher: you should not write sick as much. There are also questions about whether it is always right to write sickly if someone has fatigue depression. Perhaps it is wiser to keep one foot at work and to reduce working hours. This is of course very individual. But the step of going back in just a few months is enormous for those who have suffered from mental illness. The purpose of Försäkringskassan's analysis in the part that I read in the report is to increase knowledge about what happens to individuals who get sick leave in psychiatric diagnoses when it comes to relapse in sick leave, the possibility of returning to work and how common it is that sick leave is converted into sickness or activity benefit. The statistics show that there is a clear pattern of people who are on sick leave with psychiatric diagnoses. Generally speaking, they have a lower return to work and a higher risk of relapse in sick leave. I would like the Minister to address this in his next speech. I find it worrying that the relapse rate is so high compared to a somatic condition. At the same time, statistics show that it is better to get back to work for people who are on sick leave in the most common diagnoses, i.e. adjustment disorders and reaction to severe stress. Reaction to severe stress, for example, can be a mourning work. Then you can gradually come back in a more clear way than if a person has, for example, fatigue depression. Psychiatric diagnoses are associated with the longest sick leave. They are even longer than in cardiovascular and tumour diseases. There is a clear increase in this from 2010, and since 2014 this is the most common reason for sick leave. You read and try to get to what is causing us today to get into these sick leave so often. It certainly depends on different things at community level, at individual level and on the stress that exists in workplaces. I don't think it's possible to put a single label on the causal link in this. This is still very worrying. What measures are contained in the Government's programme of measures to stop the recurrence of sick leave in these diagnoses?
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-699	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I had not originally planned to go up in this debate. Actually, I am here to talk about nature conservation, but the subject of mental illness is something that concerns, not least with regard to young people. I'd like to sort out the concepts. Mental illness is very broad defined. One part is, a little simplistic, about anxiety, anxiety and depression. These are totally natural reactions to things that happen in your everyday life. It may be that a relationship doesn't go the way you have thought, that you don't really know what people expect of you in school or other things that happen in life sometimes. Other mental illness – those who need to be treated with medication and various kinds of conversations – are schizophrenia, depression and panic anxiety syndrome. This cannot be solved by talking about the problem, but by needing care. Let's look at mental illness among young people. It is the most common reason for dropping out of high school, which is very problematic. I believe that the government needs to continue to look at reforms in order to reduce home sitting. There's a full investigation in this area. It really matters if you get up in the morning, have breakfast, get on the bus to school and spend time with your friends. There are also many other things you can do. These are things that are not marketed as measures to reduce mental illness. For the simple psychological problems, sleeping and eating regularly and having physical activity for more than 30 minutes at any time of the week is quite enough. Here, proposals for more sport at school would make a difference for children whose parents do not have a natural connection to sport. Even suggestions for early grades, or at least reviews that do not judge anyone to a certain grade, would make a big difference. It is important to learn early to deal with adversity and to know that it can be arranged. When I was in school, I didn't get grades until eighth grade. Then you didn't have much time to arrange the final grade for the ninth grade. This created stress for many, which could exacerbate the situation. I would also like to say something about what the Minister raised about working life. It's a bit the same thing there. Many employers do not really know how to deal with someone who suffers from mental illness. They don't know what tools to use. They think they're gonna do what they know works for other things. They treat it like a disease and send people home. There's no evidence as far as I've seen that this is a good solution. For the vast majority of lighter mental disorders and moderate depressions or fatigue depressions, it is good if you are partially on sick leave and continue to come to work. It matters if you have routines and sleep, eat and socialize with other people to meet your social needs. This is extremely important. I think we can think more widely about this. The Minister for Social Security should arm not only the Minister for Labour but also the Ministers for Education. There are things to do. There are low-hanging fruits. If you take all of them, we can go far, I think, without it having to be very expensive. But then you also need to analyse the concept of mental illness and think about what is difficult and what we can solve by giving people opportunities for routines.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-709	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for these various recordings. It's important to keep these things separate. Of course, weightier and more severe mental illness should be treated with care interventions in different ways. But it is not, as I said, where we have seen the big increase in Sweden in recent decades – the increase began in the 1990s – but it is the light to moderate mental illness that is the big villain today and that causes people to drop out of school or fall out of work. One of the things that I think is incredibly important in this context is that we apply the research that exists today. We know much more today than we knew when we were world champions in sick leave in 2003, when the concept of burnout and the phenomenon of entering the wall was what was put on the table. Today, for example, we know that it is important to remain in social contexts and to remain in activity and in a context. That is why, in my response to this interpellation, I referred to the mission given by the Government to the National Board of Health and Welfare, which has now drawn up recommendations on new leave periods for these mental diagnoses. Based on evidence and research, it is recommended to significantly differentiate the periods of sick leave, depending on the severity of the disease and the co-morbidity of psychiatric diagnosis. As I said, there are today diagnoses where the recommendation is a partial sick leave or no sick leave. This applies, for example, to mild first - time depression, where sick leave is not recommended at all. These new recommendations have begun to be applied in the health sector, which, of course, is also part of what we are now seeing as a result of. But what is then important is what is happening in the workplace. There, the agreement we have reached with all the unions and employers in the Swedish labour market is very important. For it is still the case that there are too many lacks of knowledge in our workplaces about how to handle signals that employees are starting to feel bad. It was brought forward earlier in the debate that one might think that the best thing is to send someone home, but as an employer one should keep in touch and get in touch during the sick leave so that the employee has one foot on the job. Although this has been the most common cause of sick leave for both women and men in Sweden for many years, it is still the case that this diagnosis in society is considered to be quite stigmatising. When I raise these questions, I often hear – including from employers' representatives – that it is difficult to ask these questions and that one feels that people's privacy is being violated. That is why it is everyone's responsibility, not least for us as politicians, to raise this issue, which is therefore the most common reason for sick leave. I think what Jesper Skalberg Karlsson mentioned earlier is incredibly important. We see that this is creeping down at an age and that more and more people, far too young, never enter the labour market but are already falling out of high school. We have a very great responsibility to counteract this development.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-720	Mr President, I would like to The minister concluded with what I was going to say. Jesper Skalberg Karlsson puts his finger on the important issue of young people's bad feelings. Just as Jesper Skalberg Karlsson pointed out, the definition of what is included in mental illness is incredibly broad. It is important to keep routines as long as you can and that you get support and help from teachers, pupil care staff, employers or the nearest manager. It is stigmatising, as the Minister says. I believe that employers, supervisors and teachers need to be helped with knowledge and tools. How do you do it? How do you talk to someone who feels bad in his soul and who has it heavy over his chest? It's a very difficult question, because you haven't grown up talking about it. If someone breaks the leg, you know about how long it takes before the cast is gone. But you don't know when someone feels bad in the soul. Forte did a knowledge compilation in 2015. They feel that it is very clear that the workplace must be involved in order for the sickly employee to get back to work or, if it is about school, in studies in a good way. This summary of knowledge also points to several scientifically documented health factors in the work that reduce the risk of mental illness. It's there somewhere we have to start – once you're on sick leave or you can't go back to school, it's gone too far. These include preventive work, good leadership and a balance between requirements and control and between effort and reward. It is also a question of resources at the workplace, so that you feel that the work to be done is reasonable and realistic in terms of the resources involved. I always get frustrated when I see that it is often municipalities, county councils and regions that stand out among the workplaces when it comes to mental illness and sick leave. We politicians are the employers there. We should be able to work even better prevention on these issues. The Swedish Work Environment Authority's regulation plays a very important role. I do not really remember whether it will be evaluated – it would be good if the Minister could respond to that. Healthcare needs to further strengthen its capacity to identify and treat different types of mental illness throughout the spectrum, which is highlighted in both Swedish and international studies. Then one might wonder why this is not done adequately in Sweden. There may be too much sick leave in these diagnoses. Perhaps sick leave is the wrong way to go, just as we have discussed. Of course, the whole thing must also be very individually designed. It is fast to lose belongings to the workplace or to school. To keep a few hours a week, to get an adapted schedule and to be with friends based on how you feel allows you to come back much faster. A comment on this would be great. I also find regional disparities worrying. They continue to exist, as we have seen in the statistics for decades. It's completely unreasonable – it's not that people in some parts of Sweden are more morbid than people in other parts, but there is a system error in this. It would be interesting if the Minister wanted to say something about it. I also wonder about the report by Försäkringskassan and the National Board of Health and Welfare on regional differences. When will it be ready? Maybe it's here. I don't know.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-733	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your speech. I welcome the fact that the Minister speaks so warmly about evidence-based policies. I think this is very good. At the same time, I want to be honest with you that we don't know everything about mental illness. When it comes to the 90s – my generation, people born around the turn of the millennium – we cannot really explain why people in that generation are so unhappy or suffer from mental illness. I can do a political analysis on the basis that I think happiness is the difference between expectations and outcomes. Perhaps you have had parents who have said that everything is possible, but then you have missed the next step, namely that it will take a lot of work. However, this is only my analysis, and I am far from being a lucky scientist. Regarding the efforts that the Minister mentioned – 1 billion and so on – I would like to say that the government in the spring budget, or the spring economic bill, invested 100 million to combat mental illness at school. 100 million is a lot of money. It's more money than I'm gonna make in my whole life. In this context, it can be very much – if the money is used properly, 100 million is a huge spending pot. But there is also a risk that this money will disappear in administration, and then 100 million can be very little. I look forward to seeing how this bet falls out, because then there may be reasons to do more of what works.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-739	Mr President, I would like to I will try to respond to some of the various inputs that have been made in this important debate. I would like to come back to what Lotta Finstorp mentioned in her first speech, which deals with the problem that these cases of illness are also many times long lasting. It's a huge worry. That is why it is so important, of course, to prevent, as we have talked about here. It is not least important that there is work environment work at the workplaces with the highest sickness rates. We have talked about this so many times and about the absurdity of the fact that there is twice as much sickness in the elderly as in the rest of the labour market. That's completely unreasonable. It is about exactly the things that you, Lotta Finstorp, highlight here: about the conditions of work, about the working environment and about the feeling of participation and control over their work. There is a lesson to be done here, because it is in these professions that the need for recruitment in the coming years will be so huge. I spoke to some municipal councillors yesterday who told me from a municipality – I won't mention which – that they had 800 young people who wanted to be cosmeticists and 600 who wanted to become small animal nurses, but no one is applying for nursing education. That is totally unreasonable, and of course we need to get to grips with it. It must be attractive to work in the Swedish health care system. Lotta Finstorp also mentions that the risk of relapse is so obvious. This means that if you have once been hit in a tougher way by stress symptoms, the probability is much greater that you fall back there when you end up in a situation that is stressful for various reasons – in your personal life or at work – which is extremely worrying. As I said, that is why we need to make sure that we are right from the start. And even if we don't know everything, we know more now than ten years ago. With regard to regional differences, which Lotta Finstorp also raised, the first analysis has been carried out. It shows that there are regional differences that can be explained perfectly with different reasons. However, there is also a significant proportion of regional disparities that cannot be explained. We need to get to grips with this, because it is also about the individual's right to receive quality care and, as I said, to do right from the start. It's so incredibly important. The work with the Swedish Work Environment Authority's regulations will of course be followed by the Swedish Work Environment Authority. It is something that I also look forward to with great interest. In particular, through dialogue with employers and trade unions on the private side, I know that the interest of employers in training in the new regulation has been enormous, which is extremely gratifying. Hopefully we will also see a result of this. Another point I would like to point out is the Swedish Work Environment Authority's final report on women's work environment, which came quite recently. It is based on the five years of studies initiated by the previous government and then taken forward by our government. They have now summarised their conclusions from the five years. It's worth reading about what you need to do. To Jesper Skalberg Karlsson, when it comes to ill health among young people, I would like to say that we are still doing quite a lot now. We allocate SEK 1 billion per year in 2016 – 2019, which is a strengthening compared with the previous SEK 280 million per year. It is important to meet the growing ill health of children and young adults, but also to strengthen the work of youth clinics, for example. So a lot of good things are being done right now.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-747	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for an important debate. Of course, it is not possible to pinpoint exactly what causes more and more people to be sickened because of fatigue depression or mental illness. When you mention these concepts, it is so easy to just go away, but what we mean is stress-related fatigue depression. Much is being done that is good in various parts of Sweden around this. I read an interview with Kersti Ejeby, who is head of operations at the health centre in Gustavsberg where I have been on a study visit. She says it's a lot about the diagnosis of fatigue syndrome. It came in 2002. It did not exist before, and it does not exist in other countries. I think you should focus on that and take it with you. Sick leave is handled in primary care, she says, but I don't think our corps has had the focus on learning about the major diseases. Primary care is old-fashioned when it comes to team formation. I want more therapeutic knowledge. I find this very interesting. There they have opened the door in a different way than in many other health centers. The Minister says it's about doing right from the start, getting in right. Maybe it's not a doctor you have to see. It's a different profession. Åsa Kadowaki, psychiatrist, says in the same interview: Previously, the church took care of the soul, and the doctors took care of the body. But now we've got the soul back, and we don't know what to do with it. For some conditions, sick leave is a poor treatment method, but doctors have not learned to handle their responsibilities. To write someone sick means to remove the person from its context, and that is in certain conditions the wrong way to go.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-753	Mr President, I would like to As the Director General of Försäkringskassan usually puts it, sick leave also has a package leaflet just like any other treatment method. You really have to be clear about that. Åsa Kadowaki has worked a lot on this issue and is really an example in her way of thinking and in the efforts she has made, including in Tidaholm, where she has completely reversed developments. It's amazing. There is much to look at there as well as at the work done at the care centre in Gustavsberg, where de facto has completely re-rigged the staff set. What you encounter is, first and foremost, much more psychologists, with whom you get a chance to get conversational therapy, but also a plan for returning to work. After all, they have a special programme for this which has proved to be very good results. We know that we have work to do in Sweden when it comes to developing and updating primary care to meet the needs of the population today when it comes to access to good quality care and adapted to the diagnosis that is most common today. I look forward to that with hope. Finally, we are not alone in Sweden in having an increasing mental illness. It looks the same in many other Western countries. I think it was a year ago that the OECD presented its final report. Sweden is one of nine Western countries that they have looked at that have this increasing mental illness among young people. For several years, they have studied and reached a number of conclusions about this that are incredibly interesting to take part in – speaking of Jesper Skalberg Karlsson's question about what this is due to. But we will have to come back to that in another debate.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-758	Mr President, I would like to Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell has asked Minister Gabriel Wikström whether he and the government intend to propose a comprehensive ban on distance selling of alcohol. Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell has also asked whether the Government intends to impose restrictions on commercial brokering which risk undermining the legal position of the retail monopoly. The work within the government is now so divided that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell's question is prompted by a memo which was referred at the end of last year. The memorandum proposes that a buyer who wants to bring alcoholic beverages to Sweden from another country within the European area should use the transporter who will transport the alcoholic beverages to the buyer. The memorandum thus makes a different assessment from that made by the Alcohol Delivery Investigation on this particular issue. Appropriate regulation of distance selling of alcohol has been the subject of several investigations. As early as 2013, the investigation on the supervision of the marketing and e-commerce of alcoholic beverages, etc. its final report proposing how the supervision of distance trade should be organised. A number of consultation bodies argued that it was difficult to take a position on a regime of supervision, as it was still unclear exactly what was permitted and what was not allowed in relation to distance selling of alcohol. For this reason, the then government appointed a special investigator to clarify the legislation. The investigator, who took the name of the Alcohol Delivery Investigation, submitted his proposal in July 2014. The investigator proposed a clarification that the carrier should be independent of the seller but that it should be able to be engaged by both the buyer and seller. A number of consultation bodies considered that the proposal, which meant that both distance selling and distance selling would continue to be allowed, did not go far enough. At the time of the investigation, a case was pending before the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning a distance selling and home delivery of alcoholic beverages to consumers in Finland. A number of referral bodies argued that the Court of Justice's ruling in the case should be awaited as it could clarify the scope of EU law to regulate distance trade in alcoholic beverages. In the light of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, a memorandum was drawn up within the Government Office. It considers that the regulation of distance trade in alcoholic beverages covered by a State retail monopoly is to be assessed on the basis of the Article of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union dealing with State monopolies and their functioning. This makes a different assessment to that made by the Alcohol Delivery Investigation. It is against this background that the memorandum therefore proposes that anyone who wants to bring alcoholic beverages to Sweden should hire the transporter himself. Furthermore, the alcohol supply investigation proposed to introduce a ban on promoting the private introduction of alcoholic beverages for commercial purposes. However, the proposal means that a foreign seller will continue to be able to market its products in accordance with Swedish marketing legislation. The proposal to introduce a ban on promotion was welcomed by most consultation bodies. However, it was argued that the promotion ban should also apply to the foreign seller. The reason for the proposal is that the investigator considered that a regulation that prevents a foreign seller from promoting the sale of its own alcoholic beverages, which is legal in the case of beverages supplied by Systembolaget, would constitute unlawful discrimination under the EU rules. Already today there is a ban on selling alcoholic beverages in Sweden that infringes Systembolaget's exclusive rights. As the investigation also notes, some of the activities and business models developed in recent years in the course of a judicial review could probably prove to interfere with the retail monopoly. The prohibition is aimed at preventing Swedish economic interests from promoting the private introduction of alcohol. The ban thus upholds the underlying principle behind the Swedish retail monopoly, namely the principle of disinterest. This means that in Sweden there should be no economic interests at retail level that can contribute to increased sales and thus increased alcohol consumption. To summarise the answer to Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell's questions: Within the Government Office, an appropriate regulation of distance selling of alcoholic beverages is now being prepared in Sweden. As a basis for this work are the proposals submitted by the Investigation on the supervision of the marketing and e-commerce of alcoholic beverages, etc., the proposals made by the Alcohol Supply Investigation and the proposal contained in the departmental spromemoria referred to by Nordell in its question. I do not want to interfere with the preparation of the proposals that are now under way. Finally, I agree with Mr Nordell on the importance of ensuring the legitimacy of the Swedish retail monopoly. The protection of public health is the main justification for the Swedish retail monopoly. The protection of public health is also the motive behind Swedish alcohol regulation, and this should continue to be the guiding principle in the development of Swedish alcohol policy.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-771	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. From a public health point of view, increased total consumption of alcohol means an increase in alcohol damage in society. A reduction in consumption should mean a reduction in alcohol damage. Today's youths drink less alcohol. This, together with a higher debut age, should mean that we will not recruit people with major alcohol problems from that particular group in the future. One of the important tools to reduce total alcohol consumption is to limit accessibility. In Sweden we therefore have a successful tool through Systembolaget. Abandonment of the retail monopoly would have a major negative impact on public health. In my interpellation, I refer to what the Public Health Authority has concluded would happen if the retail monopoly were abolished. Among other things, there would be a drastic increase in deaths, beatings and sick leave. This is the second survey of this that the Public Health Agency has carried out. A research report from Stockwell this May shows even more serious figures. Assault cases would increase by 29,000 cases per year, drunk driving cases would increase by 8,000 per year and the number of alcohol-related hospitalisations would increase by 30% if the availability of alcohol were increased. Alcohol-related deaths would increase by 1,400 a year and suicides by as much as 42%. These are frightening and very worrying figures. For this not to happen, the government needs to work actively to maintain a well-functioning retail monopoly. One of the main threats is the growing distance selling of alcohol, where a small number of operators have started to establish new ways of circumventing the current legislation. It is excellent that the Government's response so clearly states that we in Sweden must be able to ensure the legitimacy of the Swedish retail monopoly. It's good and praiseworthy. At the same time, we do not know if and if so what sharp proposals the government is planning. Could this be a ban on promotion, like what is planned in the field of gambling? It is also unclear whether the government plans to impose restrictions on the commercial distribution of alcohol and what restrictions are being considered. I would like an answer to that.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-782	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lars-Axel Nordell for an excellent and important interpellation. When the answer to the interpellation was formulated, I was able to note that we agree in principle on all points. Although this was a long answer, I would like to emphasise that we fully agree on the importance of ensuring the legitimacy of the Swedish retail monopoly. Protecting public health is the main motive behind the retail monopoly. We know how important it is, and we are very pleased that the alcohol debut and consumption have changed and that young people today drink considerably less. When I last attended the Nordic Council of Ministers and met my Nordic colleagues, we noticed that in countries that maintain some form of monopoly, this development is seen – a development that is not seen elsewhere in the world. It is very pleasing and important to protect. It was very interesting to take note of the figures in the Stockwell report referred to by Lars-Axel Nordell. They further confirm the importance of working together in Sweden to maintain our retail monopoly. With regard to Lars-Axel Nordell's specific questions, I will not go into detail with regard to the preparation of the proposals under way. But the basis for the work that is going on at the Ministry of Social Affairs is, as I said, the proposals that have been made by the Investigation on the supervision of marketing and e-commerce of alcoholic beverages, etc., the proposals made by the Alcohol Delivery Investigation and the proposal in the memorandum developed by the Ministry of Social Affairs. So far, I can be clear that this means that the government has not taken a stand against the Alcohol Supply Investigation's proposal for a ban on promotion. The proposal is now being prepared together with the others within the Government Office. The proposal is intended to be dealt with in the legislative referral that is now being planned, and, as I said, it also includes the previous proposals concerning the supervision of distance trade. I think we are basically very much in agreement in our ambitions.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-790	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. The Government has clearly indicated that we agree on the ambition. I think that sounds great. The alcohol is not just any product. That is why we have this legislation and the monopoly in the form of Systembolaget – otherwise we would not have it. In order for us to cope with the threat that is now looming up, as I see it, there are two pieces of the puzzle that are missing and which I make clear in my interpellation: the ban on promotion and restrictions on those who are now trying to circumvent the monopoly. These two pieces are missing. By acting against distance trade, the Swedish alcohol monopoly and thus public health are protected. What is interesting, I mean, is the ban on promotion, which we are now also discussing in the field of gambling, which is a serious threat to human health. As has already been said, we already know that there are business models that circumvent the monopoly in this area, and that is why it is urgent. I would like to know whether the legislative referral planned will come in the near future.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-794	Mr President, I would like to As I said, there is great creativity in finding ways to circumvent our retail monopoly. Basically, a legislative referral is being prepared, which comes in the near future. I don't have the exact date, but it will be in the near future. In fact, we have all the facts on the table that we need today – in the previous investigations that have been carried out and in the memo produced by the Ministry of Social Affairs, based on the new EU judgment that has come up in this area. These are the answers I have to give in this part today. Once again, I can only emphasise that we undoubtedly agree that we want to safeguard our retail monopoly. We see the value of it. We also see that we have a situation where more and more young people are making their debut later on when it comes to alcohol consumption, and that is very good. We are wise of experience. It is enough to look out into the world around us to see the extent of the alcohol damage that occurs in other countries and all that follows from it. We don't want to land there again. I'll stay there and hope we can be happy so far.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-799	Mr President, I would like to We can rejoice that consumption has fallen for young people. At the same time, we cannot settle down, because it is not self-evident that developments continue. I have been there when consumption grew constantly, year after year. There was a peak, and then it went down. It continues to go down, and today it is the lowest consumption ever measured for young people since the beginning of measurements in the 1970s. It is good that the Government has noted Tim Stockwell and the research team that has now left their study. They're sending me three pieces of advice that I'd like to mention here. They say: Keep Systembolaget's monopoly position, do not open up alternative sales routes and impose minimum prices on alcohol! They have examples where minimum prices have been successful. We have not had that in Sweden. Systembolaget cannot decide for itself on minimum prices; it is a political issue. I think it is an interesting input from them, and perhaps it is another piece of the puzzle to get to grips with the problems in this area.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-802	Mr President, I would like to Finally, I note that we look forward to returning with a Council of Law referral. I thank you for a good debate and hope that we will be able to hold our retail monopoly for a long time to come.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-804	Mr President, I would like to Pernilla Gunther has asked Gabriel Wikström what initiatives he is prepared to take to follow up and promote research collaboration at the Nordic level on addiction and addiction issues. The work within the government is now so divided that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Sweden will be a leading knowledge nation and one of the world's leading research and innovation countries. Therefore, the Government has increased the funding for research by SEK 390 million for 2017 and proposes a further increase in the funding to a level of just over 2.8 billion in 2020. Forte is the authority under the Ministry of Social Affairs that finances research on health care and social services in Sweden. Every year Forte distributes approximately SEK 550 million to both basic and needs-driven research. Forte also distributes money with the aim of stimulating cross-border research cooperation, both within the EU and in the rest of the world. Forte supports various Nordic research collaborations. The Government has decided to increase resources for Forte with successive increases in funding from 2017 up to SEK 175 million in 2020 to help improve the knowledge situation in social services and increase knowledge about the governance of healthcare and social services. This year Forte announces SEK 30 million over three years for research into alcohol, drugs, doping, tobacco and gambling. The applications are assessed by international expert panels. The assessment of which applications are to be allocated funds from the appropriations allocated by the Government is carried out in competition, and it is important that the assessments are made on a scientific basis. Nordic research cooperation is mainly based on the current priorities of the Nordic Research Councils with Nordforsk in a coordinating role. Nordic coordination of research on addiction is something that the Nordic Council highlighted as a priority area, a view shared by the Nordic Council of Ministers as well as the Swedish Government. The Nordic Council of Ministers' efforts for Nordic research cooperation in the field of addiction are ongoing through the Nordic Welfare Centre, NVC, where the activities include research coordination and knowledge dissemination in the area of alcohol and drugs. As part of a Nordic co-financing, the Government has granted the Nordic Welfare Centre EUR 35 000 for the publication of Nordic Studies on Alcohol and Drugs, NAD, 2017. The government attaches great value to Nordic cooperation, and NAD is an important channel for conveying research in a central area of public health. The journal contributes to creating Nordic added value and to maintaining the position of Nordic research in the field of alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco. NVC also promotes and develops Nordic cooperation in alcohol and drug research and research on other addictive substances in the Nordic countries. The Nordic authorities also collaborate on drugs through an informal drug forum with representatives from the central authorities of the countries, who meet annually. To sum up, significant resources are allocated to promote research in the areas mentioned by the questioner and cooperation between the Nordic countries is well developed.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-814	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. Of course, considerable money is being invested in this area, and Forte is well known and has good reputation. The very content of my question concerns a decision that was taken while I myself was chairman of the Nordic Council Committee on Welfare in 2015. I had then received speeches from various Nordic researchers – actually from all over the Nordic region – and they themselves took the initiative to want a network and a research collaboration. It was not that they demanded a lot of money, but they wanted more or less compensation for travel so that they could meet. This led to a proposal that was raised in the Committee on Welfare. It was also raised during the session of the Nordic Council and endorsed. Then it all of a sudden went very fast. The Nordic Council of Ministers only received information a few months later. It rarely goes so fast. It was said that the Nordic Welfare Centre does not work with this, but works a lot with research coordination, knowledge dissemination and so on. That is absolutely the case. That would be enough. However, it was not considered that there would be resources for any form of research. Then I know – it is really the basis of my question to the Government – that it is a little worrying when decisions are taken in the Nordic Council, which is nevertheless a democratic forum for Nordic parliamentarians to actually agree on certain issues, which can then be so easily rejected or dismissed. I honestly do not know whether the issue has been in the Council of Ministers itself, or is this simply an official draft and that it does not think that the ministers should be concerned about this proposal? I do not know what it is like, and I feel that is very unsatisfactory. I've been getting talks from other people around who've been wondering what happened to the proposal. It even went through at the session, but then it just disappeared somehow. This also reduces the motivation and incentives to act at the Nordic level if it does not matter. I personally think this is quite dangerous for democracy. Then there will be some kind of showdown that you have when you meet at the Nordic Council sessions. I closed my mandate in the Presidency of the Nordic Council in April. So I feel quite free to follow up on what I myself have been deciding on. So my question remains: how could this be achieved?
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-820	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Gunther for writing this interpellation and for asking these questions. I understand very well that she does. This, of course, has also led us in the department to look carefully at what has happened in this case. I will try to make a small description which may not result in a completely satisfactory answer but which may at least shed some light on this question. Penilla Gunther has previously participated in the Nordic Council's welfare committee. As I understand it was in connection with the welfare committee organising a Nordic seminar in February 2015, where the possibility of developing Nordic cooperation in drug treatment was discussed, which was agreed at the meeting that it was clear that there was a need for a more formal research collaboration on drugs and addiction. This was then taken forward, as Penilla Gunther says. The representatives of the mid-group in the Nordic Council proposed, firstly, to recommend to the Council of Ministers to work towards increased knowledge and better treatment of addiction and, secondly, to initiate a joint Nordic clinical research network on addiction. As I understand it, the decision of the Nordic Council was to recommend to the Council of Ministers, on the one hand, the adoption of these proposed statements but, on the other hand, the addition of another to the effect that the Nordic Council of Ministers, or the Minister in the field, should give an annual account of Nordic cooperation in the field of drugs in a suitable forum. That is how it has been said to me. What I also understand, when we dig a little further into this, is that the Nordic Council report on communications on recommendations also states that the Nordic Council of Ministers for Social and Health Policy shares the objectives and that in fact two of the three rates have been met. What, however, has not been fulfilled, as Mrs Gunther rightly says, is the proposal to initiate the creation of a joint Nordic clinical research network on abuse. That is, in my opinion, because the Council of Ministers in this area did not have sufficient resources to prioritise a clinical research effort in this area. The Council of Ministers proposed that the issue of cooperation be raised again at the annual meeting of the Nordic Drugs Forum, which took place from 14 to 15 September 2016. However, when we hear from NVC, they state that this issue was not raised in connection with this. In this interpellation debate, I would like to take this opportunity to ask Mrs Gunther a question. What I hear Penilla Gunther now say is that, basically, the intention was not to launch new and expensive research efforts but to set up a knowledge-sharing network in this area. Do I get that right?
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-826	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, that's right. I thank the Government for its excellent review. That is exactly what has been asked for. What I find a little sad in this history is precisely that there has been a will among those who are actively committed to having this network. They took this initiative themselves after this conference and said that they thought this was fun, interesting and important and that they could exchange experiences from all over the Nordic countries. The research results are already available at the respective universities, hospitals and research institutions. It was more about the fact that these top researchers need to meet in some way. One might say that the annual drugs forum can of course be a forum. But here it was a little wider than that. We know, not least in view of the previous interpellation debate on alcohol, that this is boundless. This also gives us the troubles of alcohol and other drugs. It is clear that not all Nordic countries deal with these issues in a similar way. But we still have in the Nordic countries, and hopefully also for a long time to come, a movement between the countries with labour and other things that I think would have actually benefited the common drug treatment in the different countries. We should also remember that the Nordic region consists of three autonomous areas that do not have their own resources but depend on the countries around us. Greenland, in particular, has major problems with addiction; when I was there two years ago, I was very sad and seriously concerned about many of the social situations. If we had got to this network and if Sweden had been able to help pull these toes, I think we might have got a little higher with this discussion on alcohol and drugs – even within the EU. This is something that concerns all of us. We also have many good researchers in this area, so we definitely have nothing to be ashamed of – quite the contrary. The fact that we could perhaps jointly be a Nordic forerunner in this area in the EU is something I would have liked to have seen become a reality. The problem as I see it is precisely this: when we go through various things in the Nordic Council, we then don't really know where it ends up. It feels like everyone or nobody has a responsibility for it being followed up. There is something that needs to be addressed, I feel, on the part of the government. The question to the Government is therefore: how do we proceed with this? If it is not really money, how can we do something about it?
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-833	Mr President, I would like to When I put myself into this specific question and follow the tours that have been, I can see that there is no one who has really been against anything anywhere. I can really feel great respect for the frustration you feel in this, Penilla Gunther, because it is not that there has been any decision other than the recommendation of the Nordic Council. All I can see in this is that reference is made to the fact that this part of the three recommendations has not been implemented because it has been found somewhere that there are no resources. I don't know exactly where it's been found. I can also see that the question of whether cooperation would obviously have been raised at the annual meeting of the Nordic Drugs Forum in September, but for some reason the issue was not raised. My answer to the question of how we move forward from today's interpellation debate is therefore, somewhat briefly, that I will of course have to take the question with me again and simply come back with a statement on how to do it. It is not anywhere in this that the decision or recommendation has fallen; it has obviously not been up anywhere. The way forward has not been discussed. I must simply take on my responsibility to ensure that this happens, so that we can have a clear position on this issue. I am also thinking of what you are saying, Penilla Gunther, that this is a wish expressed by those who are themselves active on the issues. It is a need that has obviously been very clear. We must respect that, and we must consider how we can make this possible in such cases. There are many different ways to make this possible.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-837	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the positive news, Minister. I really think it will please those who have initiated this to hear that the Minister intends to come back with some kind of measure. I always think that we as politicians should be very happy when people take their own initiative, want to help and want to do good things. It was so clear at the conference and at the meeting that they wanted to work together. It is not often we experience that it just becomes so genuine and that we actually see that you are prepared to spend time for something to become something. So I can only thank you for the answer. I look forward to receiving some kind of information on how this will be addressed. I know that many people have been interested in this debate and will certainly look at it online, and as I said, they will certainly also be grateful for the message the Minister is giving.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-839	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a good debate and for raising the question, Penilla Gunther! As I said – I think it was in my first post – it feels like somewhere along the way there has been some kind of misunderstanding about what is to be done. In the documentation I have it says that it is about that they did not have enough resources to prioritise a clinical research effort in this area. Somewhere, therefore, there seems to have been a slight oversight of what was to be done. As I said, I will take the question with me, and I will ensure that it is taken care of and that a clear message is delivered.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-841	Mr President, I would like to Penilla Gunther has asked me how I intend to act in order for stroke patients to have a rehabilitation that is both the same throughout the country and based on the very latest research. Stroke is one of our major diseases and requires efforts from both municipalities and county councils. It is important that women and men affected by stroke receive expert and caring care in accordance with science and proven experience. Health care and care should also be provided on equal terms and according to needs, regardless of where in the country you live. I would like to emphasise that it is primarily municipalities and county councils that are responsible for providing coordinated and knowledge-based care. This is of course a major challenge, and the government has therefore taken several initiatives to support municipalities and county councils in this work.
i-Rjh2JiyTd1GG2NWcSLayH1	In order to ensure that people are offered knowledge-based health care, the Government decided in December 2015 to set up an investigation tasked with considering and proposing ways to increase compliance with national health care knowledge support. The investigation shall submit its final report on 1 June 2017. Within county councils and regions, work is also under way to establish a structure that will support knowledge management at different levels of health care. During the spring, the government has also submitted a proposal to the Riksdag with proposals for a new law that will promote better planning and collaboration between municipalities and county councils when a patient is discharged from hospitals and needs continued efforts at home. Stroke patients are a group affected by this. In addition, the Government has taken a number of initiatives to contribute to a better and more equal access to assistive devices. Aids can contribute to independence and independence and are part of rehabilitation. I would also like to emphasise that it is important that healthcare is characterised by a patient-centred approach and that care is adapted to the individual needs of the patient. To support such development, the government has recently announced a patient billion for rapid care that will contribute to a more accessible and coordinated care. In addition, the Government has decided on the so-called professional billion, which will help to strengthen the conditions for county councils to plan their skills supply and increase staff time for patient-related work. The government is also investing in better care for people with chronic diseases. It is my assessment and the government's assessment that the processes currently under way to ensure a more knowledge-based, equal and coordinated care have the potential to contribute to better results in several areas, as well as in the rehabilitation of stroke patients.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-847	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer. We know that stroke is one of our major diseases. They say it's about 30,000 a year having a stroke. Thus, one person every 17 minutes suffers a more or less severe stroke in this country. Stroke is also associated with heart disease and neurological diseases, and it is clear that it is also a cost to society – approximately 18 billion per year according to the quality register Riksstroke. In international terms, stroke is the main cause of disability and the third largest cause of death. It is certainly a major public disease, and therefore it is about rapid care and treatment when you have a stroke but also about a very rapid opportunity for rehabilitation. I know a person who had barely turned 60 years of age, a self-employed person with activities, always active, who suddenly had a very big stroke. The person lives a little outside the urban area and is not able to get rehabilitation more than possibly once every two weeks. With such a lack of training it is not possible to recover and learn to live with the functions you had before. No matter how benevolent relatives are and try to help as much as possible, there must of course be physiotherapists and others who can go in and help much faster and more often. We know that there are many, not least older people, who can get rehabilitation through home care and home care, as well as a ride to various health centres with physiotherapist and other things when they live at home. But as soon as they end up in a retirement home, that possibility of rehabilitation goes away, which is very strange. This has been noticed not least by my own mother, who is now 86 years old and has had a couple of strokes. That possibility just disappeared because she lives in a retirement home. It felt very strange, because there are still staff around the clock, and there should be a regular possibility for both occupational therapist and physiotherapist. But this is not the case with the country, and there we really have the basis for my question. We agree on this in some way obvious in the portal clause of the Health Act, which means that everyone should receive treatment at the right time, no matter who you are and where you live in the country. However, we see time and again, regardless of the disease we are talking about, whether it is chronic diseases, public diseases or more rare diagnoses, that this problem is constantly present. The question is how we fix it. Rehabilitation should also be available for different ages in different ways. How do we meet this need? A person of active age and a pensioner who may have reached a respectable age do not really have the same needs at all times.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-854	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Penilla Gunther, for the interpellation and thank you to the Minister for the answer! It is very little that you can not agree with, but so it is said that things are going on that will improve the situation, the problem should be dealt with and so on. I am not so sure that it will be resolved anyway, and it is not that I want to be critical of the government. But if you start at the end that a person has had a stroke, comes from the hospital and ends up in rehabilitation then there may be staff at the hospital who say that we must hope that the person ends up in rehabilitation site A instead of B, because then he will get much further in his development. So there is a huge amount of knowledge to make use of in places where you have very good results. As far as assistive devices are concerned, municipalities and county councils are responsible. What I'm thinking about is whether the person who suffers from a stroke has relatives or someone else close to him who can find out things. For you have to search and search and call and in different ways lie on to get access to these aids. Penilla Gunther described a person who was older and that the stakes then cease. It may seem strange to maintain a quality of life. For example, a person who is going to get out needs a per-mobile. One of these brings you out of a prison at home. You may be able to go some step but you can't go anywhere. In the best of worlds, there are people both in the municipal world and in the county councils who can take advantage of this and make it happen, but I often think that how many are out there who have no one and who never get to that step? For an active person in his 20s, 30s or 40s, it's about being able to go shopping, take a pizza and get away on things that make life something completely different. There has been talk about tablets, i.e. that the language for some is in the tablet. We talk about digitalisation and the possibilities it offers, while a municipality can say that in their organization you are not there yet. You run into an old organization and you don't feel like you have time to think about it. At the same time, there are people who have their world and their opportunities in this album. The region or county councils offer training to the municipality, but the municipality does not even know or understand that they will help with this. In this way a person can get stuck between a logoped, a region and a municipality where everyone says they have tried to reach each other but where nothing has happened in three years, although the entire language of the person is in this. I am so distressed when I think that it is so dependent that there is someone who helps. What I would like is for there to be some sort of Maslows's emergency staircase, that after someone had, for example, a stroke, which we have talked about today, either from the health care side or from the municipal side, one goes in and says that now the patient has come this far, so now it is time for this aid or to meet this need. In this way there would always be a guarantee for the individual to move forward and not get seated and be dependent on someone else to do so.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-861	Mr President, I would like to I definitely believe that when it comes to the description of the problems that we have to solve, we are quite close. We see that this is what reality looks like to a lot of people. We can see that. Then the question is what steps are taking us in the right direction so that the people who really need action can get it quickly and that it is a good quality of the efforts that are being made. As I also said at the beginning, it is the municipalities and county councils that have the responsibility. We also see what a great challenge this is. This is also why the government has taken several different initiatives to support and improve in different ways. We know that in the acute phase of hospitals, extensive rehabilitation, medical and social interventions and facilities are often required. Where it is often difficult to get to the well-functioning rehabilitation is to get to the good collaboration between the different actors. That's where it often cuts. You may be aware, and I also referred to it in my reply to the interpellation, that this spring the government has submitted a bill with a proposal for a new law, the so-called liability law. There, the very aim is to further promote more interaction between healthcare and social services for individuals who are discharged from hospitals. The proposal makes it clear, among other things, that both social services and primary care must start planning early for the patient's discharge. As principals, we must agree on the guidelines for cooperation. Agreements must be made with each other on the timing of the municipality's liability and the amounts to be paid etc. This is legislation which is proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2018 and which we believe could be a step in the right direction. Then it is so happy or unfortunate – I do not know how to express myself – that the aid investigation set up by the government will leave its report tomorrow, 31 May. There is the basic foundation that it will propose precisely how access to assistive devices can be more equal across the country and how collaboration can be improved on the specific issue. Let's see what we've come up with there. You will also be aware that we have set up an investigation to consider whether national guidelines should be made mandatory. That investigation is due on June 1st, so it'll be here the day after tomorrow. There are a number of things going on. I also want to lift up something that I think is very important. This is the initiative that the principals have now taken in the spring. They have jointly decided to participate in and finance a common and coherent knowledge management structure. It is not something that the government has imposed on them; it is an initiative of its own. I think that is a good thing and yet a step in the right direction. I don't have time to go into the different parts. In conclusion, however, I would like to mention that we have the chronical effort on which we have devoted resources. It shall promote development in the areas of knowledge-based care, patient-centred care, prevention and early attention. I can come back to this in my next speech.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-870	Mr President, I would like to The study that is due to submit its final report on national guidelines on 1 June is extremely important. I am really looking forward to what could be done with it. I have been involved in a number of contexts in recent years where national guidelines are said to be great. But they are not updated enough. Therefore, they are more or less unwilling to use them in county councils and regions. Then there are always those who think that they still do things best themselves. That's another question. The guidelines themselves and standardised healthcare processes within cancer care are very important. I also believe that it could be passed on to many other actions for different types of diseases. I attended a conference on prostate cancer a few months ago. There was a doctor who just talked about that in England national guides are mandatory. As a patient, you can also ask the treating doctor how you have received your care versus the guidelines. You have a patient influence where you clearly see the efforts that are being made against what is decided. If you are a doctor who deviates from those guidelines, you should go to the superiors to confirm that it is okay. With the spread of county councils and efforts that we have in this country, it would have been incredibly welcome both for patients and for the profession itself. At least you have something you can relate to. If we take stroke patients, they are now in some way scattered at all ages, it feels like. It has become increasingly middle-aged people and people of younger middle age n who suffer from stroke. I'm sure it has its reason in stress-related situations both at home and at work. For whatever reason, people must be sure that they will receive the care they need or rehabilitation. Then there is one question that I would like to continue to ask the Government. Last year the World Health Organization changed the classification for stroke. Previously, it was classified as a neurological disease. But then they changed it to be a disease of cardiovascularity, a disease of the cardiovascular system. It has become a bit stressful for those who are involved in this. All of a sudden there are other types of doctors and treating staff in the profession. You don't usually work together in those areas. The question is whether Sweden could act to reclassify it as a neurological disease. It has to do with what kind of rehabilitation effort people get.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-879	Mr President, I would like to I can start where Penilla Gunther left off. The question is what it looks like in the country and whether you have different kinds of doctors. In the contacts I've had, neurologists handle it take. It seems reasonable that this is the case. I was also thinking about what the minister said about the meetings on rehabilitation. I guess it looks different in our elongated country, too. What I have come into contact with is that you usually sit down on the rehab side. There they have been a team, a team, who at best held the patient. They've been teaching the patient to learn about. It has been about toilet visits, walking, speaking and everything. The patient may be trained to shave, etcetera, the everyday. They are very ready to have made a clear plan that they want to connect to the municipality. But there the municipality rarely has time or resources for the same. I don't see that part as just an economic issue. I look more at the whole thought of the whole thing, what a mindless man has, how to look at it. It's different in terms of how to rehabilitate people. I would like to emphasise that there are different ways of doing things, and some of them have very good results. I hope we really bring this along. Penilla Gunther was on the subject of standardisation. It is in some way what I call my stairway, that there is a process that is clear so that those who have no one to help can get it. I hope it can become a reality. There are so many out there who sit in the dark or get locked up in other ways because they don't get the help and support they need. I have a story, too. But I have to save it for another time because my speaking time is up.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-887	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the exciting and great post! There are several things I would like to take this opportunity to use my minutes to get back to. We can start with this by making the national guidelines compulsory. I, too, very much look forward to receiving the investigation and how we can then take those proposals further. It was something that I was trying to get to in my first post. Again: I really do not want to, as I stand and line up what the government is trying to do or what proposals we are making on the table in any way undermine or diminish the picture that you paint of how different things look around Sweden when it comes to access to rehabilitation and the quality of rehabilitation. I, too, see just that picture. I have some papers here with some different facts that show that it is very different across the country. It is also somehow a clear basis for why we need to do all these things that we are now doing and why the interpellation is very important. We must make sure that we get the work on how to create a more equal access and better knowledge management going forward. The reason why I raised the initiative taken by municipalities and county councils themselves during the spring to work together and finance this together is that I think it is important that they somehow step forward even more clearly and that we support the work in this direction. I heard that Penilla Gunther highlighted the parts about standardised healthcare processes, which we have looked at in cancer care and which we are trying to do. At least so far we see good results from this with greater satisfaction and faster access to the right care. It will be exciting to see if you could implement a similar work in more areas. I think that much of what we are doing now is moving in the right direction. I think that we are on the right things when we are at what is about cooperation having to work better, that we are looking at the means, that we are working on the national guidelines and that we are strengthening them and their role and that we are working on developing the person-centred care. It is somewhere the melody of the future; just note. The starting point must be the patient's needs and prerequisites, and the patient should be involved in the decisions regarding their own care and rehabilitation. In this context, I would like to take this opportunity to mention the important staffing and staffing issues within municipalities and county councils. We've been launching resources with the so-called professional billion. Of course, this will not be enough to solve the problem, but it is a matter of focusing on staffing issues in the future. It will be absolutely crucial. To conclude – I can see that the seconds are ticking in incredibly quickly – I have to say that I am allowed to take with me the question of how Sweden could act on the issue of classification. I have too little on my feet today to know what the process that led to a change in classification has been like. I'll take the question back with me. Above all, it is a matter of understanding what the consequences of this will be.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-896	Mr President, I would like to I'll continue where the minister left off. As I understand it, this is a whole new thought. The question is how Sweden has acted in the process, because I assume that the WHO is sending out something in advance. I do not have that knowledge, but it is certainly a decision that has been made on the question of classification. Then it is still the case that the health care system handles strokes with other staff and in other ways. One may not have to be more right or wrong than the other, but as it has so far been in Sweden, it has been seen that certain diseases and conditions are closely linked. These include, for example, heart fibrillation and stroke. But that this would be a cardiovascular disease in itself is something that I simply think many are a little surprised about. I myself would probably not have thought that it would be classified in this way, but it is probably a neurological disease. I am grateful to the Minister for taking the matter with him and for somehow coming back to see if this is right or wrong. If it doesn't feel right, and if stroke associations and others who act on these issues for the patients' sake feel that this is not good, Sweden may also be able to act for a change in the issue.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-899	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a good and interesting debate! As I said, we have been delaying specifically on the issue of stroke care here today, which is so important. As also pointed out in the interpellation, stroke is an incredibly common public disease that places high demands on health care as well as on rehabilitation efforts. At the same time, the interpellation gives light to the necessary transition that needs to take place gradually in the Swedish health care system. This applies from how we use national guidelines to how we develop more equal access to assistive devices. It is not least about how we ensure – which I think is said in many different areas – that we disconnect from our drain pipes in municipalities and county councils and manage collaboration in a much better way. This applies in this area, but it also applies in several other areas. It is about how we take rapid steps towards a more person-centred care. We have not been able to talk about it so much here since time passes so quickly, but it is also about how we make better use of welfare technology. It is about how we use it and how we ensure that Sweden will be the country in the world that will be the best at taking advantage of welfare technology and the opportunities of digitalisation. I believe that very much. As I said, I will be more familiar with the question of classification. There are certainly very clear reasons why the WHO has changed its classification. The important thing for us is, of course, to keep track of how we have been involved in the process and what consequences it has for the Swedish healthcare system. I look forward to coming back on this.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-903	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the notification of consultations under the environmental code is made in forestry measures in north-west Sweden with great importance for flora and fauna, despite the fact that the inventory and delimitation of key biotopes have been paused in these areas. Let me begin by stating that further action is needed to achieve the environmental objective of living forests. The Government has a clear ambition that protected forests should not be harvested and that environmental considerations in forestry should increase. The Government's forestry policy is based on two equal objectives: the environmental objective and the production target. There is a need to develop both of these elements. The decision to take a break in the inventory of key biotopes in northwest Sweden is the Swedish Forest Board's own decision. I note that there have been strong reactions to this decision. The government has formulated ambitious targets for biodiversity and forest protection. Key biotopes are important in this context. The forestry measures taken by an operator may update the provisions of the Environmental Code. It is the responsibility of the operator to comply with the legislation and the responsibilities of the regulatory authorities to follow up on this. For the notification of so-called 12:6 consultation under the Environmental Code, such notification shall be made to the Forest Board if the forestry measure may significantly change the natural environment.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-909	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for the answer to my interpellation. I have waited a long time to have this debate in this House with Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. I'm sending in my interpellation on March 13, and now we're writing the end of May. This means that I have had to wait 11 weeks for this debate, which was scheduled for 2 May, but three days before that debate the Minister for the Environment chose to postpone the debate further. It would be interesting to know the reason for this delay in this important and topical issue which involves so many people. Key biotopes are forest areas with very high natural values. They can contain rare species, it can be about remaining remnants of an old forest and it can be areas with certain unique trees, mosses and other things. So these are areas that we really need to preserve. The Swedish Forest Board has worked to identify and register key biotopes since they received a commission from the government in the early 1990s. But on 9 March this year we were probably several who put the coffee in the vortex when we read Dagens Nyheter's debate page where the Director General of the Swedish Forest Board told us that he is now interrupting all inventory and registration of key biotopes in an area that extends from Värmland up to Kiruna municipality. It is an area as large as half of Sweden. The Director-General referred to the need to develop new methods for identifying these important natural areas. I can have respect for the need to develop the methods, but what I and many with me find strange is that you throw the baby out with the bathwater. You throw out one method that you have worked with for a long time and do not replace it with another that will work better, but you currently have nothing. This creates great confusion and concern, ranging from very large protests from employees at the Swedish Forest Board to calls by researchers, and not least the environmental movement has been upset by this. In this interpellation debate, I want to know, among other things, how the government should be able to ensure that one can apply a consultation, which the Swedish Forest Agency has in its regulations for when there is a key biotope. In the face of felling, therefore, consultation must be carried out when there is a key biotope. If these key biotopes are no longer registered and marked out, what should be consulted on? I think it is quite clear that when we no longer know where this very safe forest is located, there is a great risk that we can lose it in the form of fellings of these areas. I would also like to know whether the Minister for the Environment, just as I put coffee in my throat that March morning or whether the Ministry of the Environment and the Minister were informed before the decision was made to pause the inventory and registration of key biotopes.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-916	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating key biotopes and the consequence of the Forest Board's Gd has decided to pause the registration of key biotopes in northwest Sweden. I would like to begin by saying that I share Jens Holm's concern that protected forest areas are at risk of being felled in connection with this decision. It is important that we have a forestry policy with high ambitions to preserve animal and plant species and valuable nature. As a minimum, we need to comply with the strategic plan, the Nagoya Protocol, adopted in 2010 under the UN Convention on Biological Diversity. This means, among other things, that Sweden will protect 17 per cent of all land and fresh water areas in the long term by 2020 and that these areas will be biologically valuable. Currently, only about 5% of the productive forest land is covered by statutory protection. It is therefore necessary and gratifying that the Environmental Party in the Government has increased the funding for the formation of nature reserves by 80 per cent since the turn of the government. The funding for biotope protection and nature conservation agreements has also received a substantial increase of 50 per cent. Voluntary protection is also necessary, including in the field of FSC certification. When we as consumers buy certified timber, we need to feel safe in the knowledge that it does not come from key biotopes. But if we are to feel safe and if we are to achieve the national and international goals, we need to know where the protected forests and key biotopes are. Just as Jens Holm said, it was in the early 1990s that they began to inventory key biotopes. This was done nationally, but due to a lack of funds it has evolved to the fact that the Swedish Forest Board makes these surveys for the most part in connection with logging notifications. This is obviously not good, either for those who own the forest or for those who work with the inventory at Skogsstyrelsen. In the Green Party's new forest policy programme that we adopted at Congress, we propose that resources be provided for a new national key biotop inventory. We also believe that an inventory is important in order to identify the continuity forests. Today, there is a shortage of logging forests in Sweden. They planted the trees in the 70's and 80's large cormorants are not yet enough adults to become timber, pulp and fuel. We have therefore received increased pressure on the last remnants of forests that have never been deforested, the so-called continuity forests. It's forests that don't want to be calcated today either. It is important that we politicians are clear about what applies if we are serious about meeting both our national environmental objectives and our international commitments. But, Mr President, protecting forests is not, in fact, enough to meet national and international environmental objectives. A transition to sustainable use of forest land is also necessary. Through the Nagoya Protocol, Sweden has undertaken to manage areas used for forestry in a sustainable manner by 2020 to ensure the conservation of biodiversity. It is therefore not just a question of leaving untouched areas, but also of using the forest that is managed in other ways. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for the Environment, Karolina Skog, how the government is working to increase the proportion of forests that are managed with something other than woodlands. I think that perhaps that is what the Minister is referring to when, in her response to the interpellation, she says that the government's forestry policy is based on two equal goals, the environmental and production objectives, and that there is a need to develop both of these elements.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-925	Mr President, I would like to Key biotopes are important habitats for many forest-living endangered species. In northwestern Sweden, we still have large unique forest landscapes that are not yet affected by bare-cut mills. How well we take care of these forests now will affect the opportunities we have to preserve endangered forest species and the opportunities of our children's and grandchildren's and future generations to experience natural forest landscapes. A majority of red-listed forest species have declining populations. An important reason for this is the logging of old forests. In order to be able to meet this, we need, as Stina Bergström says, both to be active in the formal protection of forests, which is something that we have speeded up considerably during the term of office, and to work with the voluntary provisions, but not least we need to develop the practice to become more sustainable. There the government sees the need for knowledge development and dissemination of sustainable methods, so that they go from being small parts to becoming mainstream, what we do in the used forest. We therefore have targeted knowledge-raising efforts in those parts. In order for us in the mill to be able to take out forests for timber, to build more in wood, to keep a pulp industry going and to be able to make fuels, we need to be able to take out and preserve in a joint work. The formal method we have for achieving this today is that the Swedish Forest Agency is obliged, under the Environmental Code, to conduct supervision and, if necessary, take measures to ensure that there is a consultation and that the requirements laid down in the consultation are followed. The operator is, for its part, obliged under the Environmental Code to submit a notification to the Swedish Forest Agency regarding so-called 12.6 consultations, if the forest owner may significantly change the natural environment. In Skogsstyrelsen's regulations and general advice on notification obligations, according to Chapter 12. Section 6 of the Environmental Code also states that forestry measures in key biotopes must be notified to the Swedish Forest Agency. The forest area does not need to be registered as a key biotope by the Forest Board to be subject to the requirement. If there is a suspicion of a crime, the Swedish Forest Agency is obliged to file a so-called prosecution report. It is of great value and importance that we know what is in the forest, and the registration of key biotopes is an important work. I think it is urgent that we get it up and running as soon as possible throughout the country. However, the obligations under the Environmental Code are not formally dependent on this, but the laws adopted by the Riksdag apply, of course, continuously, in the same way as the authorities' work is continuous. I would also like to respond clearly to Jens Holm's question about information. I got the information about the decision made by the Swedish Forest Board from the same source as Jens Holm, by reading about it at DN Debate. I had not received any prior information.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-933	Mr President, I would like to It is remarkable that such an important decision is taken on those premises and that the minister responsible, as the Minister for the Environment is, in order for us to achieve, for example, the environmental quality objective of Living Forests, is not informed and consulted before such a decision is taken. That is very remarkable. I would also like to thank you for your reply on consultation. That is where I and the Minister are in complete agreement. It's in the environmental code 12th chapter. 6 §. It is also inscribed in the Swedish Forest Board's guidelines, on areas with key biotopes. But then my question will be to Karolina Skog: How can you conduct the consultation in the entire north-west of Sweden if you no longer identify and register key biotopes? If you do not know where these areas are, it is very difficult to have a consultation on them. We run the risk of missing political targets, such as the fact that protected forests must not be harvested, and our political objective, overall, to obtain living forests. It is one of the environmental quality objectives, which we do not achieve. Then I mean that responsible politicians cannot hide behind an authority and say: they are the ones who have made this decision, and I cannot do anything. You can act, Karolina Skog! I don't think the management procedure of the Forest Board is okay. I think you should make it very clear that if you don't have an alternative and a better method you have to return to what was before, with inventory and registration of key biotopes. Wouldn't the Minister for the Environment agree with me on that? I would also like to ask: can an authority really depart from political objectives and mandates far and wide? We can think of a parallel to the traffic police. If they feel that the control of sobriety in traffic does not work very well, should they shut it down? And if Sida thinks that aid payments work badly, should Sida therefore stop paying aid to developing countries? If the authorities were to do so, I think they would act politically. One would say: No, here are politically set targets in danger. You can't do this! This is exactly the kind of reaction I want to see, both from the Minister for the Environment and from the Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, with whom I have had this discussion before. Now the Forest Board says it's a break you've taken. As I understand it, the pause of inventory and registration of key biotopes will last until the end of the year. Does the Minister of the Environment know anything else about that? Is it until the end of the year? Can we speed it up, so that the break is shorter and so that the inventory and registration can get started again? Finally, I would like to ask what the Minister for the Environment really thinks about the Forests Board's handling of all this. The minister in charge will receive the information when she reads the newspaper for the morning coffee. It is a large and wide-ranging decision that threatens political objectives. What does Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog think about the Swedish Forest Agency's handling of this?
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-942	Mr President, I would like to Trakthyggesbruket has been applied on a large scale in Sweden since the 1950s, and it has brought revolutionary changes to the Swedish forest landscape. Forests with different kinds of trees of different ages have been replaced by plantings of the same tree of the same kind. But there are still some so-called continuity forests left in Sweden. And there are some in the areas of north-west Sweden that we are now discussing. I and many others in the environmental movement are worried about what is going to happen during this so-called break. The Green Party wants to see that not only old continuity forests – most may be fully protected, but some may be used continuously as has been done over time – but also other forests should have a farming method that creates forests with diverse trees, leaves and leftover dead wood. Non-precise forestry practices promote biodiversity, outdoor life, tourism, reindeer farming and cultural values. We would like to see an increase in the funding that the Minister is talking about, for example, to the Swedish Forest Agency's information on non-sticking farming methods. We would also like to see a conversion aid for forest owners who want to switch from grass-roots to non-slip forestry, just as it is now possible to obtain aid for conversion from conventional to organic farming. I understand that the Minister cannot really say what the government thinks about it. However, since the government has an explicit desire to step up its investment in varied forestry, I would like to ask the Minister how the government is working to make it a reality.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-946	Mr President, I would like to The fact that we need to make further efforts to achieve the environmental objective of forests is very clear. I believe that we, who are taking part in the debate, are in agreement on this. The Government has a clear ambition to ensure that protected forests are not harvested and that environmental considerations in forestry will increase. This is a responsibility for the state and municipalities as well as forestry itself. It is also the main part of the discussions on the design of a new forest programme. What are the different roles? Who's gonna do what? The state has several roles in this, to develop new, and to spread knowledge of, sustainable use methods. The information effort is one of those. We also have ownership responsibility. I recently visited the forest where Sveaskog is experimenting with carefully approaching continuous forest management. One clear thing is that it is a completely different experience to be in a forest that has been milled or felled with regard to a new environment. It is clear to both the eye and the ecological context that it is a completely different forest. Jens asked about the timing. I have been reached by the same information, that the Board of Forests has made the decision that the work to develop new methods will last the year out. I understand that one then has an idea of using a method that will work in the different forest types in Sweden. I think it is urgent that there be a registration of key biotopes throughout the country as soon as possible. The question was about the consultation. I would like to reiterate that the obligation to consult under the environmental code is the part that is my responsibility. The consultation is not linked to the registration. It is the responsibility of the operator, in this legislation as in all legislation, to know the law and act in accordance with it. The Authority has taken the relevant decision on its own and within its remit. A parable is being made with the traffic police, and I am actually aware of an example in which the traffic police have done the same in connection with the introduction of environmental zones for heavy goods vehicles. They were only allowed to drive there with ethanol buses, but the police found that no measurements could be made, so they stopped that type of checks. I, as the municipal politician in charge, was then very upset about this. There are also similar cases. The reactions to this decision have been strong. But the question is again about consultation. There is no direct link to registration, and this applies, of course, continuously.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-956	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that answer. As far as consultation is concerned, I think there is a connection. I know what's on 12. the environmental code. But Skogsstyrelsen's guidelines are that if it is a protected flora and fauna, for example key biotopes, you should start a consultation. Now the Swedish Forest Agency is also more detailed about how that consultation should be conducted. If you do not know if there is a key biotope, how can a forest owner start a consultation? It is quite clear to me that these are political objectives that we are in danger of missing. It is then that the minister in charge must intervene, just as I think the minister – the local politician at the time in Skåne – acted when the police did not do their job. Then you punched your fist in the table and said: No, this is absolutely not how you should do it. I would like to see exactly the same political resolute action from the responsible minister now. It is possible to commission the Swedish Forest Board to resume the registration and inventory of key biotopes from now on while developing a method that can complement the existing method. I don't understand, Karolina Skog, why it would be so difficult. We would gain so much from it, and we would dispel as many question marks and much uncertainty as this pause of inventory and registration of key biotopes has created. I think it is time for a little more political action. I would like to thank you for this debate.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-961	Mr President, I would like to In the debate on sustainable forestry, as in all debates, there is a broad agreement and a common view that we need to do more to make Swedish forestry as a whole sustainable. Formal protection is part of it. Voluntary protection is another aspect. Developing sustainable practices is a third part, and we need to work on all these elements. Legislation is, of course, an important basis, but developing new methods and disseminating them is nevertheless an important task. The information efforts being made to disseminate sustainable practices are currently rather small. I hope they have an effect, but a lot of learning is needed. The most important thing is to talk to each other in the industry. In the process of developing a new forest programme, one needs to discuss what the different roles are and how to support each other in order to move forward – this to really protect our forests for future generations.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-964	Mr President, I would like to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me if I and the government In northern Gotland there are valuable natural areas with high natural values that contribute to the tourism industry, many of which are part of the European Natura 2000 network. In January 2014, the Government commissioned the county administrative boards to submit proposals for new Natura 2000 sites and complements already proposed sites to address the shortcomings in the Natura 2000 network identified by the European Commission's evaluations as well as any other nationally identified shortcomings in the network. The assignment was to be reported to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and implemented according to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's guidelines. The County Administrative Board of Gotland reported its part of the assignment to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in March 2015. After the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's review and reporting, the Government decided in August 2015 to propose new areas and changes to existing areas on Gotland. For two of the areas proposed by the County Administrative Board in 2015, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency considered that additional investigation was needed and that the investigation should cover the area of national interest Filehajdar, Hejnum rock and Kallgatburg. The County Administrative Board returned in March 2016 with renewed proposals. After review and assessment, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency proposed on 6 April 2017 the Hejnum rock and belsalvret areas as new Natura 2000 sites as well as extensions of the existing Natura 2000 sites Bojsvätar and Hejnum Kallgate. The County Administrative Board had also proposed the Forsvidar area as a new Natura 2000 site and an extension of the existing Natura 2000 area Filehajdar, but these areas are not included in the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's proposal to the Government. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's proposal from 6 April 2017 is prepared in the Government Office. Last year the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Maritime and Water Authority allocated a total of SEK 72 million to Gotland County for the protection and management of valuable areas, outdoor activities and measures for the marine and aquatic environment. These efforts strengthen local business and create jobs.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-965	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for the Environment, for your answer. We have debated this issue many times in Parliament. I may have done so mainly with Minister for Enterprise Mikael Damberg, but I can see that it was on the agenda already when Mona Sahlin was Minister for Civil Protection. It has also been processed when Lena Ek was Minister for the Environment. It has been partly processed when Åsa Romson was Minister for the Environment, and now it is on Karolina Skogs table. This is a long process, but I will not dwell on and tell the story again, but rather say something about where we stand today. Before Åsa Romson had her press conference in August 2015, when she announced the new major areas, some of the proposal from the County Administrative Board in Gotland County had been sent back. It was about 500 hectares and concerned Filehajdar. Filehajdar is very interesting, because Sweden's largest lime-breaking company has plans to start its activities there within 10 – 15 years. If you compare the proposal then and now, you can see that some adjustments have been made, but there is still room for compromise. An interaction can be found between both business interests and protection of a valuable nature. For it should be said: These are areas of protection. I believe that around Kallgate, which accounts for about 1 000 hectares of the total of 1 500 hectares proposed by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, there are good reasons for protection and also opportunities for orientation, nature tourism and many other things that can provide long-term jobs. However, one should be careful not to shoot with the big gun in its hunt to only protect as much area as possible. Let us take Bojsvätar as an example. It is a rich marsh, and one should consider whether it can be recreated anywhere nearby and, if so, with what ecosystem services result. You can look at existing Natura 2000 sites nearby. For example, there is a Natura 2000 site on Filehajdar already today, which was announced to protect the nipsippa. Since then, it has been successfully moved and planted elsewhere with a better ecology and diversity as a result, which is welcome. Now the nips on Filehajdar are more threatened by the deer, and that is another challenge. If one can find a way not to announce, for example, Bojsvätar as Natura 2000 area, one can quite calmly and surely know that the cement industry will remain. But at the same time as they do so and commit themselves to making an effort to preserve the rich cart somewhere, there is an opportunity for this government to make a great political profit. From the outset, the proposal announced 500 hectares for Natura 2000. If you call Callate but exclude Filehajdar and Bojsvätar, you have to call more than twice as much. This is a golden situation if you want to protect very valuable nature but at the same time show that you are pragmatic and can see the value of natural and economic interests being able to interact. If you look at the big picture, it is welcome that we in northern Gotland have a company with great investment potential, which is not only involved in cement but also in water storage and other things that are great challenges for us all year round.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-973	Mr President, I would like to I find reason to say a few words about the work on the designation of Natura 2000 networks. I guess the honourable Member knows that this is regulated by the Species and Habitats Directive. It is based on scientific criteria, as specified in the Directive. They take into account values for ingoing species and habitat. This is the basis for the County Administrative Board's work. This is what is being examined by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which then makes proposals to the government. The work is very clearly regulated. Gotland has many valuable areas, and it is important that there are many different types of area protection. I am, of course, very proud that in August 2015, the government took the decision to propose to the European Commission an extension of the area of Bästeträsk. This extension is an important complement to the Natura 2000 site. It is clear that this European network of Natura 2000 sites is not complete. The Commission is very clear on this, and it is also clear in the action plans that exist. This was one of the backgrounds that the Government in January 2014 commissioned the County Administrative Board to submit proposals for new Natura 2000 targets. This was done, among other things, to look at how areas were connected and how they represent nature, not least the part of nature where we see shortcomings and habitat losses. The assignment was, of course, carried out in accordance with the scientific criteria and was reported to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. As regards the areas on Gotland, as I described earlier, there have been reasons to look even further at what is in the area and what needs protection. It shall contribute to the improvement of the conservation status of certain species and habitats, which shall, however, also be inalienable for the network. This is one of the reasons why the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has not included all the areas that the County Administrative Board has put forward. The criteria are therefore strict. The work is not at all about protecting as much as possible. A criterion for Natura 2000, if you want to be part of the network, is that the area is inalienable. We also have other methods of protection in Sweden. It is not self-evident that just because something is worthy of protection it should have Natura 2000 status. It's about making a network. I can therefore share the honourable Member's view that there is no intrinsic value in protecting a great deal for Natura 2000. The aim is to have a network that is connected and ecologically representative. What this is is based on scientific criteria and nothing else.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-981	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for that answer. Perhaps I do not fully agree with the description that it is the European Commission and the directive on species and habitats that is the culprits in the drama. There are quite large differences between the way we see Natura 2000 in the various countries of the Union. In Germany there are examples of large-scale construction of wind turbines at Natura 2000 sites. In Sweden we have doubts as to whether mosquito control can even be carried out in Natura 2000 areas. So there is a difference. It has been said by the government at least in the past that this is about what is an addition to what the European Commission pointed out as shortcomings, i.e. other nationally identified shortcomings in the network. These are things that we ourselves are in some sense resourceful about. It is not about bats or porpoises but about how we look at the forest that is in these places. We wonder if we think it's tight or whether it's tree-dressed pasture. One can consider if there is any land on Gotland that has never been grazed. I think it is difficult to find such biotopes, rather the opposite. I would, by the way, like to say that I had the wrong name in my first speech. It's not around Kallgate that it's 1,000 hectares but around Hejnum rock. They're close. Maybe I was a little confused before. With regard to the proposal and the forthcoming government review, I hope that the government will nevertheless look at the efforts made in the neighbourhood, such as for the nipsippa, the restoration of wetlands, the pike factory that has been built, natural trails that private financiers have initiated and implemented. These trails are popular. Hopefully, one has an overall picture when considering what protection is to be introduced. I also believe that one should think a step further. Natura 2000 is a well-meaning nature protection. It's a good network. There are shortcomings, but overall it is a functioning network. What is problematic is perhaps not just this but step number two, that is, the separate process in which to apply for a permit. Even if Filehajdar, the place where you want to break limestone, is not announced, there is a risk that with the proposal you will find it difficult to obtain this condition, because you must be able to show zero impact in large areas around you. Bojsvätar is interesting because it is a rich cart. Even though it may only be affected to a small percentage, and even if it is possible to move and have somewhere else, it may not be possible to show a zero impact. This break has been stopped. This is advanced matter – I am the first to admit – but I hope that it can be enough to urge the government to look at the proposals. This applies not only at the first stage, but also to how the proposals may affect future revenue. Natura 2000 has a fairly large protection zone around it, which will affect this industry in the long term.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-988	Mr President, I would like to Although I am not close to the knowledge that Jesper Skalberg Karlsson seems to have in this area, it is of course nice to stand here and discuss very protected areas. Protecting these areas has several types of values. The Natura 2000 tool is about natural values and ecological representation, but there are also other important measures that are part of the entire work. These are about accessibility, outdoor access to the area and links to tourism and other experience-based industries. In this context, there is a broad effort to ensure that Gotland will live in all dimensions. The specific decisions, which are on the table with the government, are under preparation, and I hope that there is respect for the fact that I do not precede this by commenting on it.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-991	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This is complicated matter. It is not just a question of difficult names on the sites, but it is also advanced in the sense that Natura 2000 is not quite transparent – I am the first to admit this. With regard to the forthcoming government review, however, I hope that the Government can look at the proposal – not only in the short term but also on how the previous nature protection has been able to work together and on how we can obtain effective protection for the whole area. If you also look at employment effects and other things you can clearly see that it is not only the 300 – 400 jobs on Gotland that are affected. This also applies to jobs throughout the country in acceding ports. One can think about where cement will come from if not from Gotland. We have heard examples of lime being shipped in from Canada. Is this really resource efficient in 2017? You can also think about what we should use instead of cement. These questions are huge. We talked about forests earlier. I think we will build more bio-based and more in wood in the future, but I do not think we can afford to stop building with a material and refuse it. We will probably have to build more in all materials, and cement has certain properties that wood does not have. I hope that the government can look at this with a holistic view – that one can look with a little helicopter perspective – and think about both the short term and the medium and long term. This is an important industry for Sweden. There is much to say on this issue, and I hope that the Minister for the Environment feels a little more enlightened now than before.
i-V1pX66yQeGuj5nUqw4CYhY	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson, for this enlightening discussion! The review of Natura 2000 sites commissioned by the Government to the county administrative boards has been preceded by solid inventories and consultation processes. Most of the trial that we are doing at the Government Office rests – thankfully – not on my being able to pronounce the areas or on the substance to do so. There is expertise built into the decision-making base, and this is the basis for the preparation that we do in the Government Office.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-1000	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson has asked me a number of questions about the so-called BTI method for mosquito control and whether I intend to support the development of the SIT method against flood mosquitoes. Combating flood mosquitoes is largely a regional responsibility – for example, management measures such as mowing and grazing. Support for control has been based, among other things, on various actions in the Swedish Rural Development Programme, for which the Swedish Agriculture Agency is the managing authority. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, on behalf of the Government, has studied the effects of the control with BTI to ensure that this control does not have negative effects on the sensitive environment. The Authority concluded that a balanced use of BTI has no direct effects on birds, fish and mammals including livestock and domestic animals. However, the knowledge of the effects of BTI on other taxonomic groups in the ecosystem is insufficient. Against this background, both the former and the present government have stated that combating with Vectobac G is not a sustainable solution and that it is important to find long-term solutions to the problem of the mass presence of flood mosquitoes. The Government has appointed the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency as the responsible authority to monitor the state of research in the field of control and other long-term measures to reduce the presence of flood mosquitoes and to disseminate information about such measures. The government is following with interest the development of the SIT method to combat flood mosquitoes, but at present there is no concrete proposal for the government to take a position on.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-1006	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Mikael Oscarsson has written a very important interpellation, and the questions he has asked are extremely important for people in this area. For now we are approaching the season that you dread if you live at the lower Dalälven and know what it is like to live with mosquitoes that prevent you from staying out at all. You can't let your children or your animals out. It's terrible, and I wonder if the Minister has been there and if she knows what it's like. The problem is that there is no long-term response to the problem. We have asked questions many times, both to the previous government and to the current one, and received the same answer – that is, no answer at all to how to get long-termism in the fight. This means that those who work in Neda, who have been researching in this field for many years, do not feel safe in their way of working, which is a problem. This also means that we do not have a long-term perspective in the fight that we know about today, that is, the BTI method. This in turn means that you cannot plan for years to come. The previous government, the former minister Åsa Romson and also the current minister have all said that it is a local and regional responsibility. It can't be like that. That is why it is important to at least get some indication from the Minister as to how you intend to proceed in the long term with the research and the fight that is taking place now. Local and regional responsibility cannot be blamed, but responsibility must be taken by the government. We were told earlier that the government is following the STI method with interest. We know that the United Nations office in Vienna, where I was with my parliamentary group a year ago, talks about this method and talking about the lower Dalälven. But it requires the Swedish Government to co-finance. My first question is: do you in the government intend to co-finance and develop the SIT method? My second question is this: will you guarantee long-term control and long-term financial investment in the future, so that we can continue to combat mosquitoes at the lower Dalälven river using the methods we are using today? It is extremely important when we know that we had to wait until spring before we were told if we were to get money for pesticides this year. Therefore, I wonder when and how you will ensure that you can continue to live, work and live at the lower Dalälven.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-1016	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to state that it is important in this type of issue and in this particular case to find a balance between prevention and combating. There are a number of research reports showing that it is possible to limit the mass presence of flood mosquitoes in an ecologically and economically sustainable way through a combination of prevention and control. The government's view, like previous governments, is that the mosquito issue should be handled and financed locally and regionally. This is based on the fact that it is at this level that the environment and the local and regional conditions are known, because there is not a solution to mosquito problems that can be applied to all regions. The solution is decided in the region on the basis of the regional conditions of those living in the region. The Government has decided on an amendment to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's regulation letter which means that a maximum of SEK 3 million from the grant for measures for valuable nature can be assigned to limit the mass presence of flood mosquitoes this summer. In addition, there is the same amount in the rural development programme that is paid by the Swedish Board of Agriculture. The argument put forward here in two parts contains clear contradictions. I get the question, have you been there, and do you know about it? No, I haven't been there. But I mean that those who live and work in the area and who can decide which methods to use and have responsibility. The argument put forward is that those who know the area should not make decisions, but I and my colleagues will do so here in Stockholm. It's not a picture that we in the government share. The second part is that we in the same way here in Stockholm for several years to decide which method to use. At the same time, it is said that we should follow new methods and bring them in. That is also a clear contradiction. The Government has decided that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is the authority that will follow the research situation. They have the competence to do so, and they have a close dialogue with the relevant county boards. Several county boards work actively with similar problems. If they find reason to get approval from the government for any of the new methods, they will propose it, but there is no such proposal for us to take a position on right now.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-1023	Mr President, I would like to We are not going to have an argument discussion. That was absolutely not my intention, Mr President. I would just like to stress the importance of knowing what this is about, because that is what is a major issue in this context. I appeal to the Minister to familiarise himself with this matter very carefully. It is about working both with the current problem and with what is forward. If you say from the UN that you need co-financing from the Swedish government to test the so-called SIT method, this means that the government must be involved in depositing money for the future, just as it must be involved in working for you to have money at present. The former government, the alliance government, had at least earmarked money in the rural programme that could be used regionally, so that the scientists and those who carried out the mosquito control were sure that there was money for a couple of three years to come. If you don't have to use the funds, you don't. It takes a lot of time to order home funds and report etcetera, and you don't have to do that if you know you can get money long-term. My appeal to the Minister is that she really gets into this, because it is extremely important for the people who live at the lower Dalälven.
i-fd1066d8ff63c8ce-1027	Mr President, I would like to The fact that this is an important issue in the region concerned and in some other affected regions is absolutely incontrovertible. It is important for me and the government that knowledge of the problem is anchored on a regional level. There has also been a development of methods and a combination of preventive measures and the most effective measures to combat them. That is precisely why, while allocating money, we are saying that the method must be evaluated and how far preventive work can be done, because it has other effects not least in terms of nature conservation. We take steps forward and strive to create a balance– I don't think you should think that there is an ultimate method. At the same time, of course, we are following the research situation. These are exactly the decisions we have taken.
