i-7ef2c070e74e1979-4	Mr President, I would like to Initially, I will say that we support our reservation to detect and counteract radicalisation in prison environments, but that we do not intend to insist on anything at the moment. I would like to begin by stating one thing, and that is that Swedish penitentiary services are doing quite well. The penal service is a well-functioning authority that has undergone the major reorganisation that other authorities are in the middle of right now, and it has done so in a good way. You can now focus more on screwing in things that don't work and improving your business than on whining about organizational problems of different kinds. We can see that one of the most important parts of the prison system, although it represents only 4% of daily activities on a timely basis, is the treatment programmes. They are based on a scientific basis, and at this time of lack of knowledge and mistrust of science, it is liberating to see that the Prison Service – which is one of Sweden's largest authorities – is stubbornly marching on with a knowledge-based way of managing its activities. It evaluates the programmes scientifically and removes those that do not work. You bring in new programs, test them on a small scale and scale them up if they turn out to work. Often you have international role models where there is a long experience of what works and what doesn't. It focuses on the risk and needs of the inmates, as well as susceptibility. This strong and scientific view is one of the reasons why relapse rates are decreasing. For it does; it has been decreasing for twelve years. The recidivism rate is decreasing gradually and clearly, which is extremely gratifying. Take it to heart, you who have been in power in these years! Together we have a feather in the hat of having a well-functioning penitentiary. Another indicator is that it was years ago that someone escaped from a class 1 or 2 institution. Drug use remains low – probably, honestly, less than it is in an ordinary Swedish workplace outside the walls. It is a very important condition for the dynamic safety work to work in practice. There is zero tolerance to escapes and to alcohol and drugs inside the walls, and there is zero tolerance to mobile phones and counterbands in prison environments. Zero tolerance does not exist for it to come from the mouth of a baton politician for political reasons, but for it to work well with the treatment of the inmates. It takes peace and quiet. It is quite obvious: a drug-free environment is the prerequisite for the relapse rate to fall. I think we can agree on that. I would like to highlight a special part of the Swedish prison service today, and that is the investment in our young offenders. The media are filled daily with news about gang problems, shootings and murder. Hopefully, very many of those who commit these crimes come into the prison service – preferably everyone – and then we need to do the right thing. Everyone who has studied U.S. penitentiary knows that the United States has a huge number of inmates per carer; there are about ten times as many prisoners per penitentiary in U.S. prisons. The quality then becomes extremely low and the relapse rate is high. In our special youth departments, which have been introduced in recent years, we have in practice one carer per inmate. In an international comparison, such staffing density is exceptional. There are several reasons why we have it that way, and there are many distributions. One is, of course, that the smaller the departments you have, the less social sparks and social contacts there will be. It's simple math, to travel the Speaker who teaches math. In a group of 8, there are 56 social rubs, compared to 240 in a normal section of 16. Of course, it is more difficult to control young people and their relationships, especially when gang problems are involved. Instead, it is client-related business that counts. It's the caretakers who may be close. They can be adult images and discover whether attitudes to crime continue to characterize young people. Of course, there are many things that work well, and we should, for example, protect our youth departments and be proud of them. However, there are also challenges – that's what people call problems today, and challenges are – and one is of course the long detention periods. They're still way too high. We have three studies and directives that have been reported in the last year, and they have a unique palette of measures that could possibly remedy this. We will come back with this in the budget work, not least. It is a question of legislative limitation of detention periods, as has been proposed. We will see where it lands; it may be the right to human contact, to look at how to ease restrictions and so on. It is also a question of increasing the efficiency of the prosecution system and, not least, of the NFC in the field of forensic investigations. Sweden is a very prosperous and good country, and that is the second problem area I intend to highlight. Sweden is doing extremely well. We should be very proud of that and perhaps cherish that feeling a little more. There have never been so many jobs in Swedish history for people to apply for. There have never ever been so many vacancies in the Employment Service's place bank as this year. Unemployment is falling slowly, and job opportunities have increased. This, of course, also has consequences for the Prison Service, which in a relatively short time has lost much of its staff, both to the Migration Agency and other authorities and to the private sector. Correctional staff are sought after by other employers. This is basically something very positive, but it also means that you will face quite a lot of challenges when it comes to recruiting staff. The prison service is not an isolated island in society, although it can physically be so – you have walls that separate the prisoners from the society outside. Correctional services are connected to everything else. We have a tougher and tougher society. We have a climate in which people who fall into the margin are becoming increasingly difficult to enter the labour market and, not least, the housing market. Today, cooperation between municipalities, healthcare providers, Försäkringskassan, Arbetsförmedlingen and the prison service does not work. We have initiated various types of talks and need to take further steps, because this must work far better than it does today. But the most important vaccine is still a community where you help each other and stick together. We cannot stand by and watch class society grow stronger and stronger. We must do something about it, because it is the main criminal policy vaccine in order to keep this society together. One might wonder if this will exists. We hope so.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-23	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating a motion report on criminal matters. We Moderates have many good proposals in terms of drop-outs, relapse prevention, lock-out and more. I cannot take up all our proposals, so I am concentrating on some of them. First of all, I would like to express my support for reservations Nos 2 and 16. When an offender commits several crimes, the crimes are added together and the penalties are reduced – this is called a penalty discount. Simply explained, it means that the more crimes you commit, the less punishment you get for each crime. This sends out completely the wrong signals. That is why, in the Alliance, we have pushed and passed an announcement to the government to review this penalty rebate. We have also received an announcement to the government regarding stricter parole rules for those who relapse into similar crime. The government has appointed an investigator with the mission to consider changes regarding parole. We Moderates already know what we want – we want the parole granted today not to be granted to those who relapse into crime. We Moderates also want more use of treatment measures. Petter Löberg from the Social Democrats said that this is very important in prison. The time spent in an institution should be used wisely to cope with time outside the prison walls without criminality. In our exercise, we discuss that the prison services should work to ensure that all inmates who need treatment undergo appropriate treatment measures and that there should be access to them. For those who refuse to participate in programme activities, this will have a clearer impact on the implementation than is currently the case. The 2016 annual report of the Correctional Service shows that only 25 per cent of those who have been in prison have participated in treatment programmes. There are far too few. The aim is, of course, to prevent relapses in crime and to give the client new insights and knowledge. In November 2015, the Crime Prevention Council submitted a report that reveals that prisoners in prisons have too little to do, both in terms of treatment programmes and vocational training. In addition, demand is greater than supply, which is unacceptable. The report notes that half of those who participated in a treatment programme considered that the risk of recurrence of crime had been reduced. Karolinska Institutet has conducted a study using adhd medicine. The study showed that the risk of relapse was reduced by 38 percent. This is a very large reduction, which is why it is very important that more people participate in treatment programmes. In the past, we have received an announcement to the government that people convicted of violent crimes should have an obligation to undergo treatment programmes. If the client refuses to participate in such a program, there shall be consequences for the possibilities of leave and parole. We have also made it clear that those convicted of serious crimes against relatives or serious sexual offences and refusing to participate in treatment programmes should not be eligible for conditional release. This is very important, not least given that sexual crimes have increased significantly in Sweden. A rape is one too many. These developments are very worrying and must be broken. It is important to remember that behind each relapse there is a victim — an innocent person who has his life ruined. This development must be broken. Many inmates do not speak Swedish. Correctional services have started treatment programmes in other languages on a small scale, but the vast majority receive no treatment at all. You can imagine: someone is in prison for ten, eleven or twelve years and then released without having received any treatment at all—it goes without saying that the risk of relapse is very high. The government has made no proposals whatsoever regarding the obligation to participate in treatment, despite our announcements. It's bad. Petter Löberg just raised that this is very important, but yet the government is not looking to deliver anything with regard to our announcements. Mr President, I would like to I would like to say a few words about radicalisation and violent extremism. Studies abroad have shown that people who have been in prison for other crimes have been radicalized in prison. This must be combated, both in prisons and in prisons. In May 2016, the Correctional Service presented a survey of different methods and ways of working to combat this. There is a lot of work going on in prison, but a lot remains to be done. For example, staff must be trained to see different signs so that they can react. It is also necessary to develop various measures to be implemented. It is also important that every religious representative with whom the prison service cooperates is properly examined in advance. This should be done by means of expertise not linked to the community concerned. There is no research on this in prison. It is important that such research is carried out. It is good that the committee is proposing an announcement to the government to ensure that the Prison Service will implement rapidly the methods and working methods that this survey has come up with. After we wrote the motion last autumn, the government has given assignments to various authorities. This is good, but it takes far too long. These assignments should not be reported for more than a year, i.e. two years after the Prison Service presented its survey. It has to go much faster, and this announcement is precisely that it should happen urgently. I just want to say a few words about how serious this is. Säpo presented his yearbook a couple of weeks ago. It shows that the main threat to Sweden comes from the violent Islamic environment and that a possible perpetrator is likely to act alone. It has become more difficult to travel out, and IS urges its supporters to carry out attacks in Sweden instead. This is a great danger. I don't think the government really takes this seriously. For example, you can look at Agenda's interview with Minister for Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke, who is responsible for these issues. She was very ill-informed – so ill-informed that she was called to the Constitutional Committee because of all the misinformation she left. Now the responsibility is to be transferred to someone else, and we must hope that the government takes this more seriously.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-48	Mr President, I would like to We are debating criminal matters and the motions on the subject. Before commenting on the movements, I would like to say that the Swedish Correctional System is of good quality and many times makes fantastic contributions. Our ambition is that the prison system should continue to do this and that the policy should facilitate and provide good conditions for good results. In the autumn budget, the Swedish Democrats allocated half a billion more than the government did. To put this in relation to what other opposition parties invested, the Christian Democrats, with their ten million extra, were the party closest to our grant. Another party, the Liberals, chose to cut back on the Prison Service and landed at 21 million less than the government did. Liberals may not expect their policies to generate an increased need for the efforts of the penitentiary, but so we are doing so with our policies. If the Swedish Democrats were to decide for themselves in this country, far more people would have had the opportunity to familiarise themselves with the range of prison services and also for a much longer time than many people are allowed to do today. And so it is that more criminals would be in our prisons with our policies. In order to maintain good quality in the Prison Service's work, we already committed half a billion more than the government did for 2017. The report here today deals with many of the Swedish democrats' movements in a simplistic way. We have simply debated many of them before. Amongst those dealt with in a simplified way are the proposals to abolish unattended leave for life-condemned murderers, generally tightened rules for leave, more supervised visits to prison, more camera surveillance in prisons, even in cells where justified. We want to criminalise escapes. And we want those who have been in prison for serious crimes to be put on anklets for some time after serving time to prevent recidivism. The whole point of our policy is that a prison sentence should also be seen as a punishment for the inmates. It should be a marked break from a life of freedom to a life where there is a daily feeling of strict regulation and where the Prison Service has enough time for the work to provide long-term sustainable conditions for inmates to come out as better fellow citizens – in cases they deserve to come out, that is. Mr President, I would like to We have also exercised that two thirds of release must in principle be abolished. It is, in our view, unreasonable that those sentenced to prison can count on only two thirds of the sentence. If you get ten years you should sit ten years, is the starting point of the Swedish Democrats, but unfortunately we are quite alone here in Parliament. However, there is a small, small opening, and it is Moderate reservation 16 to abolish conditional release for relapse criteria. Such a proposal could result in at least those who relapse into crime having a more severe penalty than today. That is why, Mr President, we support this reservation, although it is far from what we think is sufficient. After all, we have some known perpetrators in our country, such as Hagaman who was sentenced to 14 years in prison in 2006 for, among other things, a series of serious rapes and attempted murder. Hagaman served only two thirds of his sentence and is now free for a couple of years, despite the fact that the Prison Service considered that there was a real risk of recidivism. The Moderates' reservation to abolish the conditional release for relapse criteria would not affect the sentence of people like Hagaman. Although the Moderates are the party within the Alliance that wants to go the farthest on this issue, the release after two-thirds is served sentence for people like Hagaman in his own right, according to the Moderates. Those who committed the murder of honor on Pela — two uncles who executed her in cold blood — received life imprisonment but had their sentences fixed in time. They served only two thirds of their fixed term sentences and are at large today. Those who witnessed and relatives today live with protected identity under continued threats from the family. Everything is in order, according to the government and the alliance parties. Two thirds of the fixed-term penalty is, in your opinion, sufficient in cases like these. For the Swedish Democrats, similar cases as these tend to a life sentence, in the true sense of the word. Well, we Swedish democrats act as we usually do in the Committee on Justice. We do not have the support of voters to correct such injustices. We are doing what we can and support good proposals that we see moving in our direction. Unfortunately, from the last elections, we have far too many liberal forces in the Parliament who are counteracting the fact that, for the second time, people who are anointing for honor have to count on serving the entire sentence that has been imposed. Mr President, I would like to After all, what would be a report in the Committee on Justice without at least one announcement? The Swedish Democrats, as the government knows by now, are wave champions in the Riksdag, and it sometimes falls out quite well. In this report, we are helping to put more pressure on the work to combat radicalisation in our institutions. Although one might wish that we did not have to focus on working against, for example, religious extremism, the Red-Green Government has unfortunately sponsored a social development where Sweden stands out against its surrounding world. Sweden tops the list of Islamic terrorists who have travelled to Syria and Iraq. The Red Green Government has also had the door wide open to those terrorists who wanted to come back to Sweden. Although we cannot expect in the short term, with the legislative proposals presented by the government, that many of the terrorists in particular will be in our prisons, someone may be allowed to do so. If nothing else in the long term, when we gain influence, far more Islamic terrorists will be in our prisons waiting for expulsion. It goes without saying that the spread of radical ideas must be countered. We are happy to put pressure from the Riksdag through an announcement that this work will continue with vigour within our institutions.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-67	Mr President, I would like to As we have already heard today, Sweden has a world-class prison service. No escapes from class 1 and 2 facilities have taken place in the last two years. Relapses decrease from 40 to 29 percent. There is a low frequency of drugs in Swedish institutions. Evidence-based work on treatment programmes ensures that the efforts made to ensure that those sentenced to prison sentences or prison sentences do not relapse into crime are effective. Thanks to the fact that we had fewer people sentenced to prison, the Prison Service has had the resources to develop and ensure the quality of its operations. And, Mr President, my picture is that resources have been well used. It is clear that further work on developing new methods to counteract destructive masculinity norms, for example, is to be expected, and this is gratifying. For many years Swedish prison services have also been actively working against violent extremism. Already in the Government's letter The Swedish strategy against terrorism, the Government notes that work is under way within the framework of the Prison Service to identify individuals, groups and phenomena that indicate ongoing recruitments to violent extremism. The organisation and competence to deal with this problem have developed in recent years. This was already noted by the government when the letter 2014/ 15:146 was submitted to the Riksdag. Since then, the Government has contributed SEK 700 000 to the 2016 budget to further strengthen the work against violent extremism. The background is, of course, that we have seen many people travelling to join terrorist organisations abroad, but also that in other countries there have been radicalisations in prisons. This is something we take very seriously and have therefore taken action against. It would be gratifying if the speeches of moderate Members of Parliament were examined so carefully that many obvious errors could be exposed. For example, it is not true that there is no research on violent extremism. One can read in the Prison Service's results report that this is a focus area for the research and development strategy for 2016 – 2020. Based on what the Correctional Service already has knowledge of, the Correctional Service is actively working to ensure that we continue to have a penitentiary where people are not radicalized but, on the contrary, those who are already violent extremists are de-radicalized. That is the strategy and something we are actively working on. That is why, Mr President, I find it difficult to understand what Ellen Juntti and the Moderates really want to do, because my impression is that, in substance, we fully agree that this is an important work that should continue and is a priority. What concrete measures are not already being taken that need to be taken? Mr President, I would like to As we are in full agreement on the matter, I do not see that we should have to take up the time of the House to vote on this issue – although I think it is an unnecessary announcement. In addition to this reservation, I support the rest of the committee's proposal. The report discusses many issues. I would like to comment on one particular point raised by Ellen Juntti in her speech. It's about the idea of parole. Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that fewer relapses in crime, and it is important that we work with relapse prevention. Here, too, we are in complete agreement in this House. An important part of the relapse prevention work is the time that those who have served a prison sentence have during the parole period. It is a time that should be better used for lockout back to society, precisely to reduce the risk of a person stepping out of prison without any longer having any kind of supervision, support and control. The government has set up an investigation to review how the parole can be better used and if anything needs to be changed. That's wise, because I think we should use parole smarter.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-79	Mr President, I would like to The report is about penitentiary, but I was going to allow myself to start at a different end. One of the best things about this mission is all the visits we make and all the meetings we have with the team take people around the country. A few years ago, the committee visited the police in Botkyrka. I've been thinking a lot about the meetings and conversations we had there. We went with the police in tactical vehicles, including the place where there had been a hand grenade attack against the police. We traveled around Botkyrka, and the police told us of a rather serious assault that had taken place in a square in the middle of the day. Although about fifty people had been present, no one had seen anything; no one wanted to testify or report. That is, of course, extremely worrying. I asked the two police officers if there are any who are getting out of gang crime and violence. They said yes and that there are three reasons why you can get out of crime. The most common reason is to meet love. You find something in life that makes you want to build a different life. You find another value. Others experience a religious awakening and begin to live a life in harmony with the states stated by religion. There are also those who see a close friend or family member really get into trouble, which gives a thinker that makes you want to get out of crime yourself. All three of these reasons have to do with the value of life. Suddenly, life is worth something. Hopefully, there are more reasons to try to break a destructive life - style, and you should know that far from anyone who comes near Gud, love, or evil death succeeds in doing so. Local authorities therefore play an important role here. Mr President, I would like to When I was new as a legal spokesperson for the Center Party, I tried to sum up the legal policy of the Center Party in one sentence: we should be tough on criminals but not on others. It didn't feel so advanced. We'll be tough on those who choose to expose others to crime. At the same time, we must uphold the rule of law and ensure that ordinary people are not exposed to unnecessary inconvenience or discomfort. However, it turned out to be a rather bad rhetorical idea. Yet I have allowed this to permeate my work, and I intend to continue on that line. It also includes that anyone who chooses to leave crime and who wants to fight to do so should receive the support of society. There is, of course, a moral aspect to this. Are we really going to spend resources on a person who made such bad choices in life and subjected others to so much suffering? It can certainly be discussed for a long time and well, but no matter where you land in such a discussion, everyone must agree that it is a good business for society to support such processes. The socio-economic effects of getting someone out of a criminal path and going to live an honest life are very great. The purely human gains are even greater. This applies, of course, to all people who do not have to be subjected to crime but also to the criminal. It is dangerous to be a criminal; it is a life of misery. It must be understood, however, that breaking a criminal life pattern is not easy. It's not easy to break life patterns at all—all those who have tried to quit smoking know that. For a person who has built up his social and economic life in a criminal environment, the step is not quite simple. It is therefore gratifying that the majority of the committee shares the view that a functioning defector activity across the country is an important part of the prevention of relapse. I would, of course, have liked the committee to have been able to support our alliance motion on this, but I must be happy about the small thing. This important part of the rule of law should be made visible and given more attention. The municipalities play an extremely important role here. It is they who are responsible for a great deal of the work. But for them to do so, it takes the state to help. Knowledge, research, methodological support and wise regulations for management are keys, and they must come to the municipalities. Mr President, I would like to Only this morning, we received the latest statistics from the Swedish Crime Prevention Council on the development of crime. Although it takes note of the worrying development of a couple of crime areas, the long-term trend is positive. We should always have that with us when we debate these things so that we focus our efforts where they are most useful. Something that concerns me and certainly many others is gang violence. We look over time at how violence has changed character to some degree. The totally unnecessary and spontaneous violence that occurs in public places where the perpetrator and the victim do not know each other seems to decrease over time while the planned violence with a particular purpose seems to increase among the criminal gangs. The development of our big cities is a serious and warning example of this very thing. Organised crime is a more advanced crime against which to work in municipalities. The Center Party has therefore proposed that municipalities receive special support for this work. I hereby support our reservation, No 4, which deals with this very point. Another part, for which we actually have the majority of committees, is about getting better at detecting and counteracting radicalisation. There is a danger that different networks meet and compare each other's skills. Prisons are such a dangerous environment in which a person or group engaged in radicalisation, isolating itself and becoming increasingly hateful and hostile to the majority society, meets experienced criminals who know how to get their hands on weapons and how best to escape the police's discovery. That is why this work is very important.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-103	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party does not want the prison service to be a place where a person is isolated for years without treatment or employment and then comes back to society without any real change. The Correctional Service should be a place where the punishment should feel but not destroy the human being. It should be a place where there is a chance to change and become a better citizen of society through treatment, conversation, education and employment. The prison service's mission is to break the vicious circle. The Prison Service's training unit is the first part of an authority that has become LGBTQ certified. This makes me so happy, and I can do nothing but praise the prison services. I think this is a step in the right direction so that more parts of the prison system can be LGBTQ certified and that the next step is the prisons and the prisons. The Left Party has been exercising on this issue of a review of the situation of LGBTQ people in the prison system and a review of which units of the penitentiary where there is an urgent need for LGBTQ certification. Although the Parliament today will reject the motion, I am absolutely convinced that this does not mean that the prison services will end up doing their positive work – rather the opposite. When the Riksdag is not wise, I am happy that our Swedish state authorities are. Another step that is needed in the prison service is about accessibility. Today, there is no overall picture of the availability of equipment or assistive devices in the institutions or in the work of the care provider. There is very little evidence and studies on accessibility aspects. So we do not know how many people in the prison services hear bad, see bad or are wheelchair users, and there is no record of what tools are available. This applies only to physical functional variations. The same situation applies to the mental. We know that mental illness is very large and that it is very common for people in institutions to have adhd. We in the Left Party therefore want the government to commission the National Board of Health and Welfare, the Swedish Agency for Participation and other appropriate authorities, together with disability organisations, to map accessibility within the prison system and present proposals on what measures need to be taken. Prison services must be able to meet people with different functional variations. These issues are very important to highlight because the criminal is not only a criminal but so much more. Criminals can also be parents of young children, uneducated, gay, civil engineer, addicts, pensioners, multilingual or wheelchair users. This must be seen by the prison services. If you don't see that people are anything but criminals, these people's lifestyles will never change. Then the correctional system has no duty. Then it can be closed. Then it is only the storage and isolation of people who become the answer of politics, and that is not how we can have it. In the debate on the criminal justice system, it becomes very clear how different parliamentary parties are. The Moderates and the Swedish Democrats want to remove parole and believe that motivation for change and to change their criminal behaviour is achieved by threatening to reduce possible leave if the inmate does not participate in treatment programs. These criminal treatment programs are based on the individual being able to find his or her inner motivation. Anyone who has read only a short chapter in a book on psychology, or who, for that matter, deals with a three - year - old, knows that threats are not very successful in getting people to change their minds in depth. The Left Party, on the other hand, is pushing questions that change people in depth, such as the right to education even to those who are in prison or in prison. Education opens completely different doors to a life without crime. That is why I am in favour of reservation 13.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-114	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2 from the alliance parties and for reservation 3 from the Liberals on defection. This is not a general budget debate on prison services. There have been many questions from various party representatives here about our budget, but we will have to come back to that in the budget debate. I simply note that the entire judiciary and the chain affect the number of people entering the prison system today, such as the problems in police operations. I have visited the court in Västmanland County, where the judge confirmed that the number of youth cases is smaller due to the unfortunate situation in the police. Today, the Council's statistics show that fewer cases can be prosecuted and moved on. It is clear that if there are no arrests of these criminals and there is no capacity in the judicial system, then there will be no more prosecutions so that hopefully the criminals who have committed serious crimes and who will then sit within the walls of the penitentiary, including in prisons, can be prosecuted. It's all connected. That was a general comment. With regard to the defectors' activities, the Liberals regret that we do not get support for our motion on these activities. The defectors' business is very central. How does it affect the correctional system? Yes, very many of the young adults who commit crimes – the majority are men – are repeatedly engaged in crimes. Many are also called life - span criteria. They may have been prosecuted three, four and five times. They're going into the penitentiary and out of the penitentiary. With the help of different types of programs, treatments and penalties they come out one beautiful day. However, defection activities do not work satisfactorily. That is why we have tried to demand that the Social Democrats and the Green Party come back with even more forceful measures. The Committee on Justice's report, which we are debating today, refers to the fact that work is under way and that the Swedish police have received SEK 5 million – SEK 5 million on a budget of almost SEK 22 billion. It is an application procedure of bureaucratic dimensions. You should fill out an application form of a couple of three pages to the police to get access to certain state grants. I think it is important that the government parties scrape a little bit more in this than simply writing a few lines in the text of the report with a reference to the fact that the police have received 5 million and that the Crime Prevention Council has evaluated this. In December 2015, the police in Stockholm went out and said that they have a functioning business when it comes to defection – young criminals who want to leave drug sales, who want to leave arms sales and who want to stop committing crimes. These people should be able to get help to leave these environments. It was said – in December 2015 – that this would spread to the rest of the country. However, when the Crime Prevention Council evaluated this in May 2016, it was concluded that the support is very unevenly distributed. It works relatively well in the big cities. But then what? Why haven't you looked at Fryshuset, which has a good business in the Stockholm area? They had financial problems last year and found it difficult to get the resources to carry out precisely the drop-off activities. Why have you not looked at Norrköping, where the drop-out activities of criminal youths have in principle been discontinued? These are just a few examples, and they indicate that something is not working. Whoever comes out of an institution may not get a job. And if you don't get a job, you don't get a contract for a place to live. What do you do? Well, you go back to your old gang and commit new crimes, and eventually you end up again in the penitentiary. This is not satisfactory. It is a waste of society's resources that we do not have more effective drop-outs for those who actually want to participate in them. Everything is based on their motivation. But when they are motivated and want to leave the criminal gangs, not only the Prison Service, the Prisons and the Freedom Service, but also the municipalities, social services and other authorities must help with this work. In several places in this report it says that the Prison Service should do it, the Prison Service should do it, and so on. But there are no requirements for the other actors to be involved and to help in an effective and concrete way. The Swedish National Audit Office's report, which came two years ago, also showed this, i.e. that the Riksdag places demands on the Prison Service but not on the municipalities, not on social services and not on other authorities. It is clear that there are shortcomings in the defection activities, and that is what I wanted to focus on in my speech. Finally, I would like to comment a little on the announcement. It is a call to step up work against radicalisation in our prisons and in the prison services. Here, too, there is work going on; that is correct. However, the prison service also says that there is an increase in the number of sympathizers and radicalists in the prison system – many of the young people I mentioned in vulnerable and particularly vulnerable areas who commit crimes. Most so-called IS passengers, or terrorists, who go down to the Islamic State and come back to Gothenburg, Örebro and Stockholm are heavy criminals. They are also involved in weapons, drugs and everything else. If we in the Prison Service are not good at working against radicalisation, we must also have a good operation in the vulnerable areas to get them away from both the criminal and radicalized environments. I regret that the government parties oppose us on this point.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-132	Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased that the Liberals are very committed to the issue of defection. It is an incredibly important issue, not least when we see today that many young people have been recruited into crime, violent extremism, and more. The fact that the government has introduced a new grant of 5 million for precisely the drop-off operations for which the police are responsible is basically something very positive. When introducing new funds and new ways of allocating funds, it is also wise to carry out evaluations to see what happens. The government is also investing heavily in supporting civil society organisations that through, for example, Fryshuset have taken a major responsibility for the issues. They have also developed good methods for defector activities that can inspire more people.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-135	Mr President, I would like to I have no other opinion than Annika Hirvonen Falk about Fryshuset. They have a good business, but it is vulnerable and totally dependent on financial support. Even if the Correctional Service may go in with a certain pot of money, that's not enough. They are forced to lay off staff, perhaps to reduce activity, and in the long run they may have to close down the entire defection activity. It's troubling. I think the Green Party and the Social Democrats should be concerned. If this is the case in the big cities, what is it like in municipalities like Västerås, where I come from, Norrköping where you have had to close down, or Örebro where you per capita have very many young criminals who have travelled to the Islamic State? We don't have good routines in Correctional Services. When we debated with the Minister for Democracy last Tuesday, we were told that Sweden has no outreach and drop-off activities for how to handle, for example, so-called IS-returners who move precisely in those environments. I still think that much more can be done, and that is what we have been exercising about.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-138	Mr President, I would like to I, too, realize that we can do more and want us to do it. But even Roger Haddad must admit that during the time the Liberals were in government very little was done. Perhaps it was because some of the problems had not been so noticed until a few years ago. Perhaps it was because other things were prioritised. Now the government has introduced a new grant for defector activities. It's very much needed. We have also reinforced the work against radicalisation and violent extremism. We will also have the permanent committee and the national coordinator against violent extremism so that they will have a long-term opportunity to develop the work. I agree that it is a shortcoming that there have not been sufficient methods of defection for, for example, violent Islamism. The activities that work best when it comes to drop-outs are mainly about drop-outs from the right-wing environment. I think there is a great deal to learn from the work that Exit, for example, has done.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-141	Mr President, I would like to I'm sorry that Annika Hirvonen Falk is not better learned. We started work already when the ministers were called Nyamko Sabuni and then Birgitta Ohlsson who gave various investigative assignments on mapping different extremist environments. There, the drop-off activity was also lifted up and that it should not only be kept within the white power environment but that it should be more widely needed. We were definitely into it. Then the problem strengthened and worsened in 2014, when the radicalists proclaimed an Islamic state in August 2014 and we then got many travelers. What I want to say is that the Correctional Service must be better prepared. Prison and care, linked to the drop-outs, not least in the socially vulnerable areas, must work better. In our time when the Minister of Justice was called Beatrice Ask, we had social intervention groups that were still a way to work locally against the young to get them away from the gangs and into education and work. That's what we need more of.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-144	Mr President, I would like to In this debate on penitentiary issues, I intended to focus on issues relating to NGOs. I would like to agree with what was said earlier in the line-up on, for example, the work of Fryshuset. It is precisely the NGOs that are so important when it comes to drop-outs and detainment after serving time. I was in Gothenburg yesterday and met with those who work with defector activities in the municipality of Gothenburg. Of course it's challenges, problems and a lot of work. But it is a success factor that exists when you interact with non-profit actors and civil society. They highlighted an example that I was going to mention here. It was a serious criminal who had been helped to drop out and who today is a role model and works precisely in drop-off operations under Fryshuset's direction. Good role models are also people who have not been criminals and dropped out. But there are also those who have left the criminal path in civil society and voluntary organisations. We Christian Democrats believe that NGOs should have a natural place in the reintegration of the sentenced both before and after their release. Civil society has already, as I said, a major role to play in supporting the reintegration of formerly convicted people. Associations should be encouraged to be present as part of life before and even after release. Emergency services where criminals can turn when they want to leave their criminal life have for several years been run by, among other things, Fryshuset and Crimean ellas Revansch in Society, Kris. We cannot assume that civil society will stand up and have the long-term viability and the power to automatically continue the good work they do unless the economic conditions exist. We have a proposal in the report that non-governmental organisations should receive compensation in relation to how well they are able to re-integrate more severely convicted. The proposal is called social impact b evils. It's inspired by Britain. It is precisely a question of having a model that leads to civil society receiving financial compensation from the state when they manage to reintegrate former criminals. They're good at that. But they get more momentum in their work and are also paid for the great benefit they do. The benefits of this are that the result can be even better and that private funding can be provided to create a rehabilitation infrastructure. That is why I am in favour of reservation 9 in the report. In the Swedish National Audit Office's report Relapse in crime – how can society's combined resources be better used? recommends the Swedish National Audit Office that the Prison Service should work to ensure that voluntary organisations are more involved than at present. We can read in the report that the government parties highlight the fact that the Minister for Migration and Justice has held a round table with socially responsible companies. You look at how you can lift recommendations from the Prison Service and say that it is prepared in the Government Office. That is why I had a little bit of an expectation for today's debate that the government would have delivered and made concrete proposals on how to strengthen civil society actors in the reintegration work of defectors. I guess we'll have to wait a little longer, but it's a wait that can't get too long. I would urge the government to come back with concrete proposals and not prepare it for too long, because it is urgent. It's extremely important. It is essential that we strengthen civil society. Why not, Mr President, vote in favour of reservation 9 in this afternoon's vote on strengthening civil society through social dialogue?
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-153	I'd like to welcome the Prime Minister.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-155	Madam President, I would like Prime Minister! Later this afternoon, there will be an up-to-date debate in this House on the challenges of health care, as you might call it in political language. On 24 January this year, the Social Security Minister wrote on social media that we have world-class healthcare – everything else is fact resistance and alternative facts. That is a very sharp statement, Madam President. Swedish Municipalities and County Councils say that the situation has never been as bad as it is now for those waiting for surgery. Every fourth person in line has to wait longer than the 90 days of the health guarantee. Fewer and fewer hospitals around the country pass the waiting time of a maximum of four hours. Instead, waiting times increase. The lack of intensive care places for children is acute throughout the country. Instead, severely ill children are transported to other countries for treatment. The health care crisis in general is a fact. Doctors at the University Hospital in Linköping went out the other day and sounded the alarm. You can't take responsibility for patient safety. One of them spoke in some local newspaper and said: It's just a question of which patient dies first. Pediatrician here in Stockholm went out the other day and demanded an accident commission due to lack of space and so on. Then my question, Madam President, is to the Prime Minister: does the Prime Minister share the view of the Minister for Social Security that we have world-class healthcare and that any criticism of this should be seen as factual resistance and alternative facts?
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-159	Madam President, I would like I think it is also important in this area to describe a reality that is quite complex. It's not black or white. In many respects we have a very good health care. We get good health outcomes, and in international comparisons we do well. There's no doubt about it. But it is also the case that we have great challenges. Of course we have too long queues in too many county councils. That is the case, and we must do something about that. It is also the case that we need to employ more people in health care in order to remedy this. Then it is not possible to have as the first strategy to reduce taxes further. Now, unfortunately, the Swedish Democrats have put themselves in the lap of the Moderates. Then there will be less resources for the common welfare. You yourself are withdrawing about SEK 30 billion from welfare. It is not possible to say that we should remove resources from welfare and that welfare should then develop anyway. You have to make up your mind. We've made up our minds. We have challenges in our health care. We must ensure that cancer patients, for example, receive a much faster and more structured treatment. That is why we are now introducing the chain of care in cancer care. This is introduced gradually in order to get a much earlier care and a more stringent care. It will bring progress. But we will also need more resources for welfare. Then it is not possible to reduce taxes. If you reduce taxes and believe that you can also develop welfare at the rate that the previous government did, you also believe in Santa Claus. I don't believe in Santa, but I think it's important that we build prosperity together.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-164	Madam President, I would like It is a little regrettable, I think, that the Prime Minister chooses to focus once again on fiscal policy, as everything is about fiscal policy. I believe very strongly in a strong publicly funded welfare. We have also proposed this, unlike what the Prime Minister is talking about. But that is not really what my question is about; my question is whether we recognise that we have very serious problems and that we have care in crisis. When you listen to the Prime Minister you hear that it is a bit on the one hand and a little on the other. He doesn't really want to admit the problems that exist: Yes, we have some problems, but we will solve them now. It is not that simple, Madam President. The problem is that it takes a lot of effort in health care to solve the lack of space, above all. What is the value of high-quality care if it is unavailable, Madam President? I think that the Prime Minister, instead of screwing up my policy, should describe in more detail what he intends to do about an emergency situation.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-169	Madam President, I would like I say it's both. Can we at least agree on that? We have very good care in our country. Great efforts are being made by healthcare professionals in our hospitals, our health centres and whatever it may be. We are achieving good results in many respects, also in an international comparison. That's one picture. The second is that we have challenges-- I say so. We need to be clear about that. We're not gonna turn a blind eye to that. Let's get to them. We're gonna have to shorten the care queues. We're going to bring more resources to medical care. But it is clear that it also matters, Jimmie Åkesson, what tax policy you have. It matters. Either you decide to reduce taxes and reduce resources to welfare or you decide to invest together. I'll take care of it later. We will invest together, so that we can show Sweden's population that health care will be even better.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-173	Madam President, I would like I was going to focus on a proper employment and integration policy to break the two-way divide and to help those who are farthest away from the labour market to get into work and self-support. Here's a quote: our Center Party wants to legislate on wages according to ethnicity, the new so-called Swedish apartheid model. Here's another quote. Welcome to the apartheid country of Sweden. ..................................................... Apartheid is the terrible policy pursued in South Africa, which said that black people were not allowed to use the same parking spaces, park benches, workplaces or hospitals as whites. But this comparison was made from the left when, a year ago, the Center Party proposed that trade unions and employers agree on a new form of employment – entry jobs – to create more simple jobs for new arrivals. Stefan Löfven called it poor wages himself. LO's contract secretary said, "It's Soviet politics, nothing else." ..................................................... A few weeks ago, LO actually turned. After over a year of barking out the Center Party's proposals, simple jobs were at a slightly lower salary, initially, no longer apartheid. Instead, it was a good idea, a much-needed foot in the labour market for those who are new and an opportunity to move from subsidies to self-sufficiency. It's a welcome turn. I would like to ask Prime Minister Stefan Löfven whether he still wants to lock people into exclusion and unemployment. Or can he also imagine, as LO has now done, abandoning the rhetoric of poor wages and showing solidarity with those who have come new to our country? It is about giving them the opportunity to be lifted from low contributions to a job and their own salary.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-178	Madam President, I would like Without getting in trouble, anyone who can work should work. That's our basic rule, and I'm going to stick to it. I am not going to support the fact that the Center Party stands for apartheid in any way – not! I have completely different values. On the other hand, it is a matter of concern when we say that we want to see this change in the labour market, and if it does not happen as we have planned, then we are going to do this. It is not the Swedish model. Nor is it the Swedish model to say that we are constantly lowering wages for a certain group of people, especially if it is politically determined. It is not the Swedish model. The difference with LO's proposal is that they want to give an entry point for people so that they can enter the labour market to get into the wages that everyone else has. You do not permanently lower wages, but it will be possible to get in, and if LO now extends its hand to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, I hope that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise will take it so that you can sit down and negotiate. If Annie Lööf thinks that model is good... fine! Then we will make sure to support that model, and then we will also urge the parties to find as quick solutions as possible so that those who have a non-complete education in the sense of a nine-year primary school but not upper secondary education can come in and work part of the time and participate in organized studies another part of the time. I think, with my experience, that people have no problem dealing with a slightly lower salary because you also study. There should be a factual basis for the lower salary. It should be for a temporary period in order to get into the labour market and receive training in this way. Then you have full access to the labour market on the same wages and conditions as everyone else.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-184	Madam President, I would like This is a welcome retreat from Stefan Löfven, from having stood and barked for a year or even longer at the Center Party's proposal that in agreements between parties agree on entry work to a little lower salary initially to learn at work. That is what our proposal was about. To go from calling it apartheid politics or poor wages or unsolidarian to actually now thinking it's a good thing, I welcome. We have a very big challenge in Sweden. According to the Prime Minister's own figures, some 30 000 newcomers are older than 39 years of age, have a weak education and are due to enter the labour market in the next three years. Then education is important. There's a deal. There is no political conflict on this issue, but the conflict is about how we create more simple jobs so that more people get the chance to be lifted from low benefits and exclusion and into work. I would welcome if the Prime Minister could be even clearer about actually admitting that it is important to have more simple jobs, initially with a slightly lower salary, so that you get to work.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-187	Madam President, I would like Lower pay is not the main point. If it's a temporary means of getting someone where for a time when you're also training, then I'm in. That's exactly what LO says. It has not really been expressed that way from the bourgeois edge. It has been more that there should be a permanent reduction in wages for some, and I am not in favour of that. But it's good if it's not, and then we shouldn't argue about it. This is a trampoline into the labour market, and then it is perfectly possible and good if the parties agree on this and find their way, if it is at the level of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise – LO or at the industry level. It matters less to me, as long as you find that way. Yes, there is a need for more simple ways in, and that is also why, for example, we are extending the RUT. We also want to see more state preparedness jobs, and we will gradually ensure that everyone who can work will work.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-192	Madam President, I would like Prime Minister! This is today's copy of Expressen. Here you can read about the doctors who operate on women at private Ultragyn in Stockholm getting better paid the more they cut. They get a bonus if they do more extensive gynecological operations on the women who get there. Ultragyn also performs much more extensive procedures than the corresponding clinics in Stockholm County. On that they also earn a lot more money, both the doctors and this private company. The difference is marked. The impression you get when you read this is that you actually perform operations that are not really needed. You do it to make money. The risk is obvious that there is such a driving force when the benefits and not the needs of patients are allowed to determine in healthcare. Another point stated is the multiple use of single-use instruments, although there are obvious risks for patients. This, too, is something that makes money. In a profit-driven care, this makes sense. If you think of maximum profit, this is a logical course of action. But if you think of the only reasonable thing, that is, patient safety, it is a completely unreasonable course of action. After all, the Left Party and the Government have agreed to do something about the absurd pursuit of profits in health care. We have a deal. However, when the Social Democrats have recently spoken out, they are quite clear about school, sometimes they are quite clear about care for the elderly, but they are very unclear about health care. It is clear that here we need rules that absolutely require that surpluses be reinvested in the business also in health care and not just in school and care for the elderly. Only then can we do something about greed and the pursuit of profit becoming a driving force. You should take care of patients who need a good health care. Will you stand by your word, Stefan Löfven?
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-199	Madam President, I would like I am not going to comment on the particular case described. I'm sure it's a good journalistic product, but for understandable reasons, I'm not prepared to discuss Ultragyn. On the other hand, there is no doubt that we have entered into an agreement, and we have done so for the reason that we have to do something about the benefits of welfare. We agree on this. Now we have an investigation proposal. It has been referred to, and we will discuss it further with the four bourgeois parties, and we will see where we can get to. There is no doubt that taxpayers' money should go to what it is intended for. That's the point. If taxpayers spend money to go to health care, care and school, the money should go to it. We should be able to tell taxpayers that. Then there are three different legislations that need to be dealt with, and we do not know whether they should be dealt with in exactly the same way. The most important thing for me is to ensure that there is order, that taxpayers' money goes where it should go, and then I cannot lock myself in to a single solution at the beginning. I want to see what actually has an effect and what we are getting involved in so that we get a sustainable solution where taxpayers' money actually goes to what taxpayers have planned the money to go to. I am, of course, aware of the problem. If we get incentives to create profits, then it may well have the negative effects described in the article referred to by Jonas Sjöstedt. It is therefore important to be careful that you get the right driving forces in healthcare. Health care is there for the people who come there to get the best, safest and fastest care that you can get all over the world. That is the point of departure. No other driving forces should apply. However, the precise proposals we come up with will continue to be discussed, and I look forward to that. We need to get our welfare together!
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-205	Madam President, I would like We have an agreement to cooperate on the state budget and thus enable the government to rule, as well as to make joint proposals for binding rules for reinvesting surpluses in welfare. We are keeping our part of this agreement. We deliver, budget after budget, in cooperation with the government. I hope that the Prime Minister will keep his word on the part of the government as well as on the benefits of welfare, and the agreement we have is not unclear. It says that, as a general rule, surpluses should also be reinvested in health care. When I listen to the Prime Minister here, however, there is not that clarity. Should it be the case that a patient who comes to a hospital does not know whether he is being operated on for profit, for the hospital owner, or for the needs he actually needs? It's time to keep your word. It is time to put forward proposals that put an end to the pursuit of profit in welfare!
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-209	Madam President, I would like I just told Jonas Sjöstedt that the patients who come to care should be able to trust that they receive the best and safest care as quickly as possible. That is the starting point for our entire health care. That's why we're putting money in there. That's exactly what I said. Now we are discussing three different legislations and how they are to be dealt with in order for us to get this right with welfare so that taxpayers' money actually goes to what they are intended for. Then I will not lock myself up for any detailed solution at first, but I want to make a difference. You can stand and hold up a plaque and say that just like this I want it; it doesn't matter what the outside world looks like. Or you can go forward and say: How do we now make a difference in the right direction so that patients really get the care that they are worth and should have? That's my thread in this. We're gonna get our welfare together. Taxpayers' money should go where they are going, and patients should receive good and safe care.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-213	Madam President, I would like Let me list a few professional groups: women's mothers, specialist nurses, pre-school managers, first-school teachers. These professions have two things in common. One is that it is a question of women-dominated academic groups. The second is that next year they will have increased income tax again. Why? Because the Social Democrats believe that they are high-income people. It's really very strange. When the Social Democrats and the Liberals – the People's Party Liberals, as we were then called – implemented the tax reform in the 1990s, we said that about 15 percent of the Swedish people are high income earners and will pay a higher tax rate. The rest, the vast majority, will only pay municipal taxes. In addition, the State tax would be paid by high-income earners. In order to raise more and more money for all the election promises that the Social Democrats have trodden around, more and more people in Sweden are counted as high income recipients. Now four out of ten midwives will pay the high-income tax next year. This applies to a large proportion of specialist nurses, preschool managers and primary teachers in Swedish schools. I promise that if there had been a question of LO-affiliated groups, these tax rules would have changed a long time ago. But that is not the case because it is, of course, a question of women-dominated academic groups who are affected, and that is not as interesting. Prime Minister! Why is it important to raise the taxes of midwives?
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-218	Madam President, I would like It is important that we can afford to invest in the construction of society. For a long time, there has been a system of raising the stratum of taxation, which also has to pay government tax. Then there is a limit to another 5% tax. It's been going on for a long time. Let's change that list. It is then 2% of those in the labour market who receive an increased marginal tax. That's about 100,000 people. The lowest tax increase, I think, is SEK 2. The highest is 200 kroner. The groups that Jan Björklund lists here, midwives, teachers and so on, are also in need of secure funding for our common welfare, just like all of us. There is so much to do. In addition to building housing and improving the quality of trains and railways, more resources need to be put into schools so that children are better educated. I just discussed the treatment with Jimmie Åkesson. It is the same there, that is, we must ensure that it works much better. Adult education must work better. Tax on pensioners should be reduced. At least this government wants to reduce taxes on pensioners because they should not be taxed more heavily. Much more is to be done. We must ensure that the poorest pensioners receive a higher income. All this costs money. Nothing is solved by tax cuts. There must be more revenue. We are investing in the common construction of society. Yeah, some people get higher taxes. I believe that many of them are prepared to take this to ensure our common welfare.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-224	Madam President, I would like The problem is that when the Social Democrats rule – many years in the 1990s and in the early 2000s and again – this changes a little every year. It is true that there will be a single percentage more than just a few years, but over a long period of time more and more people in Sweden are counted as high-income recipients. It is so strange that the women-dominated academic professions are those that are squeezed hardest by the policies of the Social Democrats. I dare say that if it had been a question of male-dominated LO alliances, it would never have happened to this government. Now it happens to be groups that are engaged not in LO but in other trade unions and are not automatically involved in your movement. According to the Social Democrats, there are essentially two errors in female academics. One is that they are academics, and the other is that they are women. It must pay off to train in Sweden, Stefan Löfven, and it must pay off to train even in professions dominated by women.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-227	Madam President, I would like The highest paid are not women. They're men. They pay the most taxes. Right? That's it. In order to get into the higher taxation system, it is assumed that you will get a higher income. Otherwise, there will be no higher tax. With a higher income, there will be higher taxes, but of course one has still benefited from that increase in income. That makes sense. We're taking in more tax revenue. We have never hesitated to do that. We are doing this for the reason that, for these groups too, we must ensure that there is more staffing, that is, in the care of the elderly and in the health care sector. Then they also get better conditions. Many of these women are on sick leave because of heavy workload. We must help them to have a better working environment and a better staffing. It requires more tax money, not tax cuts.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-231	Madam President, I would like The government has recently announced a reduction in the tax on pension income. It's good so far. We Christian Democrats received no less than five reductions in tax for our elderly in the Alliance Government. Together with increased housing allowances, the economy improved during the alliance period so that a guarantee pensioner received an additional month's payment per year. But we see the needs, and it needs to be done much more for the elderly's economy. We Christian Democrats believe that it is not reasonable to maintain year after year the discrepancy between the tax on wages and the tax on pensions. The tax gap must be closed completely. We have proposed and financed this. The government says it wants the same thing. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven has reiterated the promise that this will be achieved at the same time as the government reaches its unemployment target. The problem is that – as everyone knows – the government does not reach that unemployment target. Lars Calmfors has called the goal The Public Employment Service has said that it is very almost unrealistic. Even the Ministry of Finance does not believe in its own forecasts that the government is achieving the unemployment target. Why, Stefan Löfven, should pensioners wait for the great tax relief Social Democrats have promised only because the government lacks job reforms and is unable to push down unemployment to reach its unemployment target?
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-236	Madam President, I would like I think it was Oscarsson from the Christian Democrats who last time asked a similar question. Good morning, Christian Democrats! You have been with the government for eight years, and you have introduced five job tax deductions. This automatically means that pensioners have to pay higher taxes for the same income as employees. That is what you have achieved so far. Now, in opposition, you say it's terrible. How can you do that? How can you not remove that difference at once? If you were serious, you would never have introduced that treasure, Jakob Forssmed. It is not enough what has happened, but the question is what is going forward. The Moderates must have a sixth job tax deduction. The best way for the Christian Democrats to remove the tax gap for pensioners is to support a social democratic-led government. Then it'll happen.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-241	I feel great gratitude to our elderly and the generation that has enabled me to live a good life. Let us make sure that pensioners are given the respect they deserve – morally and financially. They're supposed to live well. Therefore, the gap should be removed. The job case is to be completed. The housing allowance has been increased. An average pensioner now has 800 kroner more a month. On the other hand, more needs to be done for those who are in the toughest financial situation. Therefore, basic protection needs to be changed and developed so that more people have reasonable economic conditions. Primary care is now free of charge for those over 85 years of age. Dental care is also cheaper for the elderly. Gradually, we will improve the conditions for the elderly. They're worth it.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-244	Madam President, I would like It was an answer, but it was a zero answer to the question of why you link the promised tax relief for pensioners to an unemployment case that judges as unattainable. Then there will be no tax relief for pensioners in the way you have promised. When we took over government power in 2006, hundreds of thousands of people were more or less permanently excluded from the labour market. A decisive reason for this was that it was far too unprofitable to work in Sweden. This exclusion meant that many people did not get the chance to work to 100 percent of their ability. It threatened the resources of welfare and pensions. Yeah, we started with a job tax deduction. Then we reduced the tax on pension income five times. That's good. It was important. Now we want to close the tax gap completely. You're talking about housing allowance, Stefan Löfven. The Christian Democrats have proposed greatly increased housing allowances. We say: End the gap completely between work and retirement! Raise the housing allowances! Both of those things you say no to.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-248	Madam President, I would like It's good if we start finding each other on this issue. Now it is the focus on pensioners and how we improve their conditions. Now there is no focus on tax reduction. But remember, if the Moderates are to have through their sixth job tax deduction, then the gap increases again. Then the Christian Democrats should go to the pensioners and say: In fact, it will be the end result. It is quite natural to make a link between promised reforms and employment. They're dealing with each other. The more tax revenue, the more we can afford. I'm afraid that's what the last government missed. When you left the government for the third time in modern times, you left behind a large budget deficit. It's not good for pensioners. It is not good for welfare, and it is not good for security. We are making sure that the state finances are kept in order. Our Finance Minister has made sure that we have a surplus again. Now we can afford it, and now we will gradually improve the conditions of the elderly. They're worth it.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-254	Madam President, I would like There is a boom, and the Swedish economy is strong. Over the past five years, 300 000 new jobs have been created. A very large proportion of these jobs have gone to foreign born. Hundreds of thousands of immigrants are involved every day in ensuring that Sweden works. Some of them have come here as refugees. Others have immigrated to work. They are all part of the successful Swedish internationalisation. That's not the problem. The Prime Minister claims that perhaps 30,000 new arrivals now need simpler jobs. But we asked Parliament's investigation service to count, and then it turned out that it is more about 150 000 people in the coming years – five times as many. Today it takes nine years for even half of the new arrivals to get their first job. The employment gap, i.e. the difference in employment between native and foreign born, is deep and is deepening – despite the boom. What is the Prime Minister prepared to change now so that more people can start supporting themselves?
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-259	Madam President, I would like Yes, the Swedish economy is strong, and we should be happy about that. It provides much better opportunities to ensure that everyone gets to work. The investments we make are what make sure that more and more people get to work. We have the lowest unemployment rate in a long time. We have lower unemployment than when we took office. Employment is higher – the highest since Eurostat started with its measurements. We also see that foreign groups get more jobs, but too little. This is particularly true of women. Women get too little work, and of course we have to do something about that. That is why we begin language training much earlier. We all realise that in 2015 163 000 people came to Sweden to apply for asylum. It is clear that there will be a hump, a great volume of people, that must be handled in a short time. However, these application periods will fall gradually. We need to have previous language training, better contact with working life, more education and more easy ways into work. Some I've described.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-264	Madam President, I would like I think the Prime Minister is trying to avoid answering the question itself. It's good to have a boom– although many people at the moment are quite worried about whether Sweden is really equipped to face the next recession. But if not 150 000 low-skilled people who do not speak Swedish and lack experience of the Swedish labour market do not get in quickly, then instead they will be squeezed out – out into permanent exclusion. Does the Prime Minister really not see that risk coming?
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-267	Madam President, I would like Well, I see it, and I saw it during your reign. I saw the number of unemployed among those born abroad increase during your time. That's it. Then you have to do something else, and that's what we do. We invest a lot more. We need to put in previous efforts. Language interventions should be launched earlier. Contact with the business community must be established earlier. That's why we have the fast track. We need more rescue jobs in government companies and so on. Much more has to be done, yes. Everyone who can work is going to work.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-271	Madam President, I would like In recent weeks we have been able to hear the bourgeois opposition come up with a series of pledges on how to act in the next budgetary readings in Parliament. This happens in a situation where Sweden is doing well. Employment is the highest ever, government finances show substantial surpluses and the government announces important investments to make the country both safer and better. Just last week, for example, a long-awaited reduction in the tax on pensioners was announced. But even though Sweden is strong, at the same time we have an increasingly troubled world, where Brexit but also the action of the new US administration may pose major challenges for a small, export-dependent, free trade friendly country like Sweden. Against this background, of course, a budget chaos of the kind we experienced in autumn 2014 is the very last thing Sweden needs. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: What consequences does the Prime Minister estimate that the actions of the bourgeois opposition may have for Sweden?
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-275	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with Tomas Eneroth's description of the challenges we have outside Sweden, in our surrounding world. They're serious. Although Sweden is currently moving in the right direction in many respects, we still have many challenges. We probably have one of the most difficult parliamentary situations in this Parliament for a very long time. This gives us all – elected representatives here in the Swedish parliament and government – a responsibility to deal with this situation in such a way that Sweden does as well as it ever does. Then we have to choose. Either we have a political game: Who takes who, and how are we going to make it more difficult for the others as much as possible? You can have fun with that. Or we are talking about substance policy and thinking about how to take the country forward in as good a way as possible and create as much faith in the future as possible. I'm most interested in the latter. That is what makes a difference, and that is what is taking responsibility for Sweden and democracy.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-280	Madam President, I would like Good access to water is a prerequisite for our society to function. Good access to water is important for households, agriculture and industry. We are used to water scarcity being primarily a problem for other parts of the world than Sweden. But recently it has become clear that we in Sweden too are facing major challenges in terms of water supply. In 2016, several areas were affected by water scarcity, especially Öland and Gotland. Right now, the water level in Vättern is the lowest in 40 years. In my constituency, Örebro, the municipality has recently decided to introduce irrigation bans and called for general economy for water to last all summer and autumn. Madam President, I would like My question to the Prime Minister is what the government is doing or is planning to do to ensure that we have good access to water in Sweden both this summer and the coming year.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-284	Madam President, I would like We can see that in the wake of climate change, we are increasingly diverse in terms of water supply. This applies to everything from groundwater to watercourses and lakes. We'll live with that. It may differ between different seasons and different parts of the country, but we must, of course, ensure that people have access to water. We are following this closely, and we have invited the governors to a meeting on this issue on 8 May. We see that there are municipalities and county boards that are beginning to take height because there is a water shortage and are starting to fix this. There is ongoing work on long-term planning, mapping and current state of the art and the possible introduction of an irrigation ban. The governors of the most affected parts of Sweden have written to the Government Office about this. We have initiated the meeting on 8 May to discuss with the governors what the situation is and what we should do to ensure that people have the best access to water.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-288	Madam President, I would like Sweden has major problems with growing insecurity and lack of law and order. We face this every day. Violence by criminal actors is becoming both grosser and more widespread. More than one in three women say that she is insecure during the evening in her own residential area. Today we received figures from Brå, which show that the proportion of crimes solved by persons continues to fall. More than half of the cases notified are cleared directly. The share is increasing and has done so from year to year. As the Prime Minister knows, the Moderates have proposed many measures to increase police capacity, including more police officers; we have said that we want at least 25 000 police officers in 2025. I was delighted to see the Prime Minister from Rome comment on this with the fact that we have exactly the same ambition. My question is: can I interpret this as the Prime Minister promising resources for 5 000 more police officers by 2025?
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-292	Madam President, I would like Of course, insecurity is an incredible restriction on people's freedom. Not least organised crime stifles suburbs and neighbourhoods to say the least, and that is never okay. In the construction of our society, all democratic forces must be clear: organised crime will not prevail. We won't give up until you're actually defeated. Organized crime is to be removed from our streets and squares and into our prisons. Two more things need to be done: more police resources, yes. This is my point. There we have the same ambition. The police must be given more resources, and we must have more police close. Work is now under way to achieve this. It's far from clear, but it's going on. The second is: what are we doing to change basic factors that involve, for example, young people in crime? Schools need to be greatly improved. We need to have a better housing situation with less housing segregation. We have to crack long-term unemployment and so on.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-297	Madam President and the Prime Minister. Management and management of the labour market require clear and stable rules to which all parties can relate. For both employees and employers, it is important to feel secure about the future. Recently, however, trade unions have expressed great concern about so-called planes in the labour market. While LAS protects employment through rotational rules and re-employment rights, there appears to be a lack of protection of employment rates in employment. Planes in the labour market, i.e. when employers, on account of lack of employment, plan part-time full-time employment, have increased the concerns of workers. When income is halved in this way, without regard to the rules of rotation, insecurity and problems of various kinds are created.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-301	Madam President, I would like I see with great concern the development that people are suddenly in a situation where their income is falling because working hours are reduced. Our model is that employers have a great right to manage and distribute the work, and the parties must agree on the terms and conditions for any reductions and changes in production or other things. This will work. But our hope is that the parties will find a solution to this. It is not the future of the Swedish labour market that employees suddenly do not know what working time measure and thus what income they have. Instead, let us find a way of dealing with this in which the parties can jointly accept the flexibility and mobility that are needed in the labour market, while at the same time the employees have basic secure conditions. It's good for the individual, and it's good for society.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-303	Madam President and the Prime Minister. A lot of interesting things have happened in the last few weeks. Among other things, it has become painfully apparent that the current work against violent extremism leaves a great deal to be desired. We were reached only the other day by the announcement that these issues will no longer be on the table of the Minister for Culture, which I and many others welcome. The other week we were also able to take note of the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights according to which the withdrawal of the citizenship of suspected terrorist travellers is in no way contrary to the Convention. On the contrary, the Court found this to be a correct and adequate course of action. We could therefore take steps to prevent returning terrorists from entering the country. I understand that the Prime Minister has said no to this. We've already let back hundreds of IS terrorists into the country, and more are knocking on the door. How can the Swedish people feel safe after the government's failure and paralysis?
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-306	Madam President, I would like Of course, the government is determined to protect people. That is one of our most important tasks. That is why we have criminalised terrorist trips and their financing. That is why the Swedish Security Service, when people come back to Sweden, should keep track of all those who may pose a danger. The information chain will then go to the police and municipalities. But the Secret Service has an eye on those who are deemed to be a danger. If you have committed crimes where you have been, you should also be prosecuted for that crime. This is happening, and hopefully it will happen more and more. Safety must never be missed. The simple answer proposed here is not enough, but it must be taken seriously that the Security Service has enough resources and can ensure that people are protected.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-310	Madam President, I would like Benefits in welfare – for a social democrat it is when children get good education, when you get the healthcare you want and when our elderly get good care. For us Social Democrats there are gains in welfare. What is called profit in welfare is a loss to well-being. They end up in someone's pockets or abroad in tax havens and so on. That is not something for which we gain more prosperity, but pure losses to well-being; I will call this by its proper name. Therefore, I wonder what is happening to Ilmar Reepalus's investigation, which was actually aimed at putting an end to these losses in welfare.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-313	Madam President, I would like It was worth a round of applause! Actually, I haven't heard that expression, but it's very good. Profits in welfare should indeed be gains in welfare, for people. Ilmar Reepalus's proposal has been out for consultation. Now we have received referrals and have to go through them. We shall of course discuss with the other parties how we are now moving forward so that we can ensure that taxpayers' money goes to what they actually paid for: health care, school and care. We must continue to work on these proposals so that later on, perhaps at the end of the year, we can put forward more concrete proposals for consultation. There are three different legislations that need to be dealt with in some way, but there is no other focus than that taxpayers' money for welfare should also go to welfare and nothing else.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-316	Madam President, I would like Last autumn, the government decided to abolish the almost 400-year-old concept of university chancellor. This is an old classical institution, which has many traditions. In an original description of the University Chancellor, it was said that the Chancellor would oversee all university affairs. Now the government has decided that it should be called Director General instead. It is not a unique office; there are quite a few. But there have been far fewer university chancellors. My question to the Prime Minister is: does the Prime Minister and the Government intend to be consistent now and also abolish the concept of industrial chancellor?
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-319	Madam President, I would like Actually, that was a funny question. I cannot see it as a particularly general policy issue either. Actually, I haven't even thought about it, I can say. It will not be a Director-General. I can answer that. I have not given any more thought to the question. But what's important here is not the titles but getting something done. I'm obsessed with that. What is done in the university world is of great importance for Swedish competence, and the new office, no matter what it will be called, will play an important role. What is to be done for industry is to be done regardless of what you call the office. I have to admit, that was a funny question.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-323	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I cannot promise any funny question, and that is mainly because it is not funny figures I have here. In 2016, the Government issued the Swedish Social Insurance Agency a regulatory letter, which it started with the first assignment, that Försäkringskassan should contribute to breaking the development of the number of hours in assistance compensation. A study was also set up to review how different forms of assistance could be developed, and it was written that it should be financed through savings in assistance payments. It continued: further savings on assistance payments will be made. Now we have finally got the figures from 2016, and it turns out that 80% of all those who have applied for assistance compensation for the first time have been rejected. In 2001, 80 percent were granted; now, according to Assistanskoll, 80 percent are refused. Is this reasonable?
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-326	Madam President, I would like I haven't heard that number. On the other hand, I have heard another figure, namely that the majority of those who seek again are granted it. So here we have to do a deep dive into the figures, because I have not heard the latest figure. This is a right law. We've been saying that all along. You're supposed to get what you're entitled to. Those who need this should have that right under the conditions that we on the part of society have set up. But there is also a lot of cheating in this sector. We have seen many reports about this. The cheating has to go. There are too many people who want to make money out of this. They're not the ones who need the assistance. They're the ones who want to make money out of it. There are lawyers who want to make money out of it, and there are advertising and other things. This, I mean, doesn't belong there. The assistance allowance shall be paid to those entitled to it, but the other shall be removed.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-329	Madam President, I would like Prime Minister! My hometown Stockholm is a fantastic and pluralistic city but also an economically unequal city. Spatial distinctions between social groups based on economic conditions are expressed in how we live and how the school is segregated. The Prime Minister has shown a personal commitment to these issues. At the government meeting on 23 March, it was decided to set up a delegation against segregation. My question is: what is the mission of this delegation, and what is the ambition of the delegation?
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-331	Madam President, I would like The aim is for us to have a long-term and more structured work to overcome the injustices and inequalities described by Lawen Redar. Our experience is that it has been for steam projects and too much short-term thinking: Let's do this and see if it works. That's no way to get through. We need a long-term change. When I have discussed this with people in some of the suburbs, I have noticed that there is a force here. They must be supported to gain ownership in their own change. We're going to make sure that with the resources of society there is. There are a few things we need to deal with. First of all, we need to eliminate crime. Secondly, we must break long-term unemployment. We need less housing segregation. We will have better school results, and then we will have to get there with more resources in schools and so on. This is not something that is done with a six-month project or even in a one-year project, but the task is about a more structured work. Objectiveness of public authorities in relations with the media
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-336	Madam President, I would like Prime Minister! Like many others, the government has spoken out on the negative side of fake news, the alternative facts and the climate of discussion that prevails in the public discussion today, where the facts are presented in more or less angled ways and it can sometimes be difficult to know what is true and what is not. This week SVT reported on figures received from Statistics Sweden, and the Swedish Employment Service had also been interviewed about the situation in the labour market for foreign-borns. There was a clear slant in this. The figure of 244,000 employed was presented as a great success, while 400,000 have arrived here. In answers to previous questions we could hear that the Prime Minister knew that there are really very few of those who come here who come in employment. The media will of course report as they please. But what responsibility does the government have for the government and authorities not borrowing their statements for the dissemination of news in a biased way?
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-339	Madam President, I would like The people who come to our country are going to work. Then I do not know how to describe this in different ways. There is no doubt, however, that we are seeing an increase in the number of foreign-borns entering work too, and that is a good thing, but it is happening to far too low a degree. More must be in, but then you have to have start-up efforts. Then it is not possible to do as the Swedish Democrats want and remove those efforts. We have to do more. The people who are allowed to stay here should enter our society as quickly as possible. They need more language training, jobs and easy ways into work, just like those who already exist in this country and may have too little education. They need the same. Let's make sure that we really take advantage of the power that the new arrivals are. More effort is needed, not less.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-341	Madam President, I would like Two years ago, when I visited a dirty refugee camp in Iraq, a woman named Aida came up to me. She wanted to know what language I was speaking. I replied that I spoke Swedish. She then began to cry and told me that an IS soldier who spoke the same language as I had pointed a gun at her head and taken her one-year-old daughter Christina. Aida wants her daughter back, and she wants us to punish these Swedes. Now it has been two years, and only two Swedes have been convicted of terrorist crimes. At the same time, Säpo reports that we have 150 returning terrorists. One of them could be the one who has taken Christina as a slave. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister: can the Prime Minister say with honour and conscience that his government has done enough to punish Swedish terrorists? The government does not want to recognise genocide, and the government has not put in place criminal laws that make it possible to get at them. Instead, they go free. The terrorists are making contributions. Is the Prime Minister satisfied with this order?
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-344	Madam President, I would like It's exactly wrong that we shouldn't have done anything. We're the ones who have criminalized the terrorist voyages. We have criminalised the financing of terrorist travel and participation in them. If you have committed crimes abroad, you should of course be investigated and prosecuted for it. That's it. There are a number of measures that we have taken to strike at terrorism, because it should have no space in our society. It is we who have changed the laws in order for this to be possible. It is we who tighten the penalties and so on. We add more money to the police and to the Security Service, and they have the task of keeping track of these people. Those who have committed crimes must be prosecuted. Then we must keep an eye on those who may pose a danger. That's the job of the Secret Service.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-347	Madam President, I would like This weekend, the recent mass arrests in Belarus took place at the peak of more than 1,000 peaceful demonstrators being arrested, fined and beaten. Belarus police arrested over 50 human rights defenders, and many more who had planned to take part in the demonstration were arrested even before they reached the rally point in central Minsk. Social Democrat Mikola Statkevitj, who was a presidential candidate in 2010, disappeared on Friday and was detained by the KGB until Monday. He had announced that he would lead Saturday's protest on Freedom Day, when the opposition usually manifests.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-349	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a very important question, Emilia Töyrä! We are very concerned about developments in Belarus, not least about the fact that around 200 people – I think it was – were imprisoned during the last manifestation. They have expressed their views that the legislation is unfair and went to prison. In our view, this is an unacceptable way of meeting peaceful protesters, especially in a country whose leadership claims to want to develop relations with the EU. Just like any other country that wants to get closer to the EU, it is a matter of actually living up to a certain standard, so there is much at stake, not least for Belarus and its leadership. You must show yourself that you want to see developments in your own country that allow you to move closer to the EU, and then you cannot imprison peaceful protesters. The policy of sanctions has changed. It wasn't our will, but now it's become so. Sweden stands up for a clear EU policy on Belarus' democracy.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-352	Madam President, I would like We know that issues raised at European level and given increased importance often lead to legislation. It can therefore be risky to pursue issues at European level if we do not want to see common legislation. One of the government's main issues in the EU is the issue of a social Europe, which seeks to increase the importance of discussions on the social dimension in EU cooperation. My question to the Prime Minister is: how does the Prime Minister intend to ensure that these discussions do not lead to a gradual increase in the EU's power over these issues, which today belong to national competence?
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-354	Madam President, I would like The social dimension is important. I would argue that it is crucial to people's confidence in Europe at all. People should see that there is not only what is good for the market and business, but also a social dimension – social responsibility. There may be a few who would like to move more decisions to the EU, but nobody has that desire. We have been clear from the outset: now that we are addressing this, we are not doing so with a view to transferring more decision-making powers to the European Union. When I talk to other countries, not just those with social democratic-led governments, I hear the same message – no one has said so far that this must mean more decision-making powers for the European Union. Everyone agrees that we should go in the same direction and make sure that we show people that there is a social responsibility, but that we do so on the basis of national legislation. I think that's a very good way to go.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-356	I would therefore like to thank the Prime Minister and fellow Members for today's Question Time.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-357	Mr President, I would like to We Swedish democrats have asked for this debate to deal with the crisis in health care, which affects both patients and employees very hard. When one sees this crisis getting worse day after day, it is not good enough, as the Minister for Health usually does, to renounce his own responsibility and blame the county councils or to repeat his mantra repeatedly that health care is facing challenges. First of all, Mr President, I think it is important to call things by their proper names. That's the only way to solve a problem. It is time for the government and Gabriel Wikström to speak clearly. Swedish healthcare is in a crisis situation. To say otherwise is dishonest. We have Europe's longest healthcare queues. Every fourth patient in the surgical queue has waited longer than the 90 days of the care guarantee. It is therefore 30 000 patients who have waited longer than is allowed. In addition, the lack of intensive care places for children is acute throughout the country, which means that seriously ill children must instead be transported to Oslo, Copenhagen or Helsinki. It does not befit us as a welfare state to leave the responsibility to our neighbours to take care of our seriously ill children. Yesterday, Mr President, 17 specialist doctors in Linköping went out and warned that they could no longer take responsibility for patient safety. It's just a question of which patient dies first, says one of the specialist doctors in a letter to the hospital management. Now I assume that in today's debate Gabriel Wikström will come up with concrete measures and proposals to reverse this disastrous development in both the short and long term, but also that we will not have to hear the constant phrase that Swedish health care is facing challenges.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-363	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that I welcome the fact that we are debating Swedish health care in this House. Overcrowded emergency departments, deficiencies in maternity care and growing care queues are some of the problems that have been reported in the media recently and that we have a joint responsibility between the state and county councils to do something about. However, there is an underlying reason for these problems which we must focus on if we want to resolve seriously the problems of healthcare and if we seriously want to create a better health care, and that is the situation of the staff. It's about all the heroes who are working all the hours of the day so that the rest of us can feel safe with the health care we have in this country. The key to improving healthcare is precisely to give staff the right conditions to do their job. While doing this, we must remember that large parts of Swedish healthcare work well. More people survive cancer and heart disease than ever before. We have medical results that are world class when we compare ourselves to many other countries. Despite the lack of certain specialities, we have historically many doctors and nurses, and in the national patient surveys that are done, most patients are satisfied with the care they receive. We simply need to be able to have several thoughts in our heads at the same time. There are problems and there are challenges that are great and need to be solved, but no, there is not a crisis in healthcare everywhere. Many of the problems we see are, as I said, related to staff issues, or simply to the fact that healthcare can both train, recruit and retain staff with the right skills and that they have the opportunity to use their skills for what they are best at, which in most cases is to meet patients and provide good care and care. There are too many employers in healthcare that are not good enough. Working methods and structures are outdated, and this contributes to the problems. The government is therefore making several different efforts to strengthen healthcare in this way and to contribute to giving staff the right conditions to do a good job. We have, among other things, increased the general state subsidies by billions to provide resources to hire more and to provide better conditions to the staff. We are investing in a particular professional billion which is specifically aimed at staffing and skills supply problems. Within that billion, we have earmarked SEK 300 million to give more nurses the opportunity to become specialists on study wages. We have expanded the number of training places for nurses, specialist nurses and midwives so that more than 1,500 people today can start studying these courses. We invest in validation and supplementary education for many of the new arrivals who have come here with medical experience, and we also make targeted investments in several areas of healthcare. One of them is maternity care. Here we presented earlier this week, in connection with our amending budget, a forthcoming addition which means that we are more than doubling the focus on maternity care that we already have this year. It is about 500 million SEK that can be used both during this year and next year. Until 2018, we are investing SEK 2 billion in a strengthened cancer care system so that no one with suspected cancer will have to wait a single day too long for treatment. Much is being done, and much is being done from the government's side, but more needs to be done. Waiting times must be reduced, and the most important tool is to give staff sensible opportunities to do a good job. That is why we choose to invest in welfare rather than giving priority to tax cuts and privatisations that moderates, Swedish democrats and others in this room do. Privatisation is not the solution to healthcare problems. On the contrary, it is something that is not harmless. Today we have been able to read in the Expressen about how doctors should have received bonuses for major procedures and for cutting women without medical reason. I would call that the worst form of greed. Neither your wallet nor anyone else's wallet should govern the care you receive. It is a cornerstone of the Swedish model, and I not only want to defend that model, but I also want to develop it. What we have read about in Expressen today is totally unacceptable, but it also shows the risks of increasingly privatised care. I expect the political leadership of the Stockholm County Council, led by the Moderates, to ensure that events in themselves are properly investigated and that you look at your care choices and compensation systems and assume your responsibility to prevent something like this from happening again.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-376	Mr President, I would like to This week the ambulance nurse Ulrika and her colleagues told me in a very emotional conversation about an expression mission when they were shot with six gunshots. Yes, you heard me correctly: Ambulance personnel were shot at. It is totally unacceptable that they should carry out their work with life as a contribution. Now not only are Ulrika and her colleagues heroes, but everyone who carries all the important functions of society every day is. Ulrika with colleagues, bluelight personnel in ambulance and rescue services, are real community carriers. Every day, 24 hours a day, they're at the service of society. It is quite unreasonable, then, that their direct working environment is becoming increasingly insecure, yes, even insecure. That's enough. We should not have a system in which those patients who need the most urgent assistance cannot get it because those who are going to do the job do not feel safe. Mr President, I would like to I would therefore like to begin by asking a question directly to the Government and the responsible Minister, Gabriel Wikström. Will the government support and vote in favour of the Moderates' proposal to introduce a special penalty that means that all crimes involving an attack on those who manage the important functions of society lead to increased penalties? Today, there is no direct penalty for these individuals and these crimes. Mr President, I would like to Swedish healthcare is of high international standard with good medical results, but at the same time is covered by many challenges. This requires clear national leadership, a clear leadership that shows future plans for where you are going with Swedish healthcare. This is something we see a lack of today. The government has neither proposals nor clear targets for what they want with Swedish healthcare. Every day the welfare employees on the floor make fantastic contributions. They save human lives, they nurture and they relieve pain. We will strengthen them in the short and long term. But their working environment is not enough. And the government stands without action plans and visions. All healthcare professionals need more opportunities to grow in the profession, better opportunities for further training and wage developments. Mr President, I would like to The biggest challenge is that Sweden has some of Europe's longest waiting times, lack of availability and continuity. That's not good enough. We know that it is possible to shorten waiting times. Gabriel Wikström and the government made sure to very clearly remove the methods that shorten the waiting times. Instead of new methods for continuing short waiting periods, they were replaced by longer waiting periods. Today, over 100,000 patients have been waiting for more than 90 days for an absolutely necessary surgery. That's not good enough. Then we shall have concrete proposals to change this. The second major challenge, in addition to growing care queues, is the flight of personnel. It is about people who do not feel that they come to their right in everyday life, in their workplaces. In ten years' time, there will be a shortage of over 200 000 employees in welfare unless we map out the national, important and strategic plan for the provision of skills to health and social care workers. This requires concrete proposals. This requires proposals to Parliament. And that requires clear national leadership. The third major challenge facing Sweden is the multisick elderly. They are sent between different health professionals and are not seen as patients as a whole. We can do much more, much faster and much clearer. The proposals are in the office drawer at the Ministry of Social Affairs but do not come here to Parliament in the form of concrete proposals. Where are the proposals? The Moderates and the Alliance parties protect the welfare. We contributed 57 billion to Swedish health care and well-being during eight years. We are happy to take the fight for more resources for health care. But we know that it must be combined with clear roadmaps and clear reforms. Most recently today, the Parliamentary Social Committee discussed over 300 proposals linked to health care. When we discussed those proposals, the Social Democrats did not show any interest at a single time – no interest whatsoever in taking on any part or any concrete proposal presented by the alliance parties. I therefore give the Government and the Government the opportunity to answer three specific questions in this current debate. Firstly, what concrete measures will you propose to improve the individual patient in the near future? The Spring Bill seems to be popular for throwing in proposals concerning health care. It is time to throw in the proposals that cows take the waiting time in Swedish health care there. And then it should apply to the whole country, no matter where you live. Secondly, when will the Social Democrats in Sweden ensure that it is no longer a place of residence that governs what part of the health care system you get, what treatment and what chance of survival you get? The Health Act is extremely clear; no matter where you live, no matter who you are, you should be equal before the law. This is not the case in Sweden of the Social Democrats. When will the proposals that put the patient at the centre and where the place of residence does not matter? Thirdly, Ulrika, who works as an ambulance staff, expects a clear penalty base and also a sharper penalty for those who attack people and employees who work in the functions of society every day. It cannot be reasonable that it is without a penalty today.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-391	Mr President, I would like to In the 2014 election campaign, Stefan Löfven explained that something was breaking in Sweden. It has been more than three years since then. The negative development in several welfare areas, including health care, continues. Health care is an area that the Swedish people have a high priority. You are willing to pay a fairly high tax as long as you know that you receive a high-quality healthcare available. Traditionally, Swedish healthcare has been an example in the outside world. But, unfortunately, because of the government's inability to deal with chronically long queues and waiting times, this is no longer the case. The Agency for Health and Care Analysis has compared healthcare in Sweden with healthcare in ten comparable countries. The result is disappointing. Only one third of Swedes believe that healthcare works well. That is a decrease of 13% compared to 2010. As a result, Sweden is second to last placed among comparable countries. The study also notes that patients in Sweden have, in many respects, less experience with healthcare than patients in other countries. They feel that accessibility is lacking and that there is no possibility of participation. And they believe that the coordination of the different parts of care is not working. When it comes to access to health care in the evenings and weekends, Sweden is last among comparable countries. Only 28 per cent of Swedes were satisfied with this. This is to be compared with the Netherlands, where 74% were satisfied with access to health care in the evenings and weekends. This isn't good enough. As has been said, the government's lack of action has led to Europe's longest healthcare queues. And it's even worse when it comes to waiting for surgery. This negative trend is also evident in emergency medical care. Fewer and fewer emergency hospitals can keep waiting for a maximum of four hours. Even the youngest and most fragile are affected. The lack of intensive care places for children is acute throughout the country. Every fourth place, of those present today, is closed. This means that sick children may be transported to other countries for treatment. This weekend, 28 pediatricians went out and warned of a breakdown in paediatric care. They're proposing to set up an accident commission. They tell us that surgery and investigations are cancelled because of the lack of care places and about children who are cared for in study rooms – sometimes for several days – while waiting for a vacancy in the department. This is not worthy of a country like Sweden. And I agree with the doctors' conclusion that this is a total medical accident. Mr President, I would like to I will tell you about a little boy of eight months who has paid the price for the health care crisis in Sweden. We can call him Alexander. He had the misfortune of being born with an unusual heart defect and therefore needed to undergo a major heart surgery. The operation was to be carried out at Queen Silvias's Children's Hospital in Gothenburg. Alexander arrived at the hospital and was prepared for surgery. But five minutes before he was to be anesthetized, the family was told that the operation would be cancelled. The reason was that the hospital could not offer an intensive care place for Alexander. So the family got to go home. Alexander was given a new time for surgery. A month later, the family packed up their things to go back to the hospital in Gothenburg. But when they arrived, they were told that the operation had also been cancelled. Also the next and next surgery was cancelled. In total, Alexander's operation was cancelled four times. And each time they were told the same thing: No intensive care place is available. It's full. This little boy's fate is not unique in today's Sweden. 1 out of 20 operations planned are cancelled at very short notice in a large part of the country's hospital. Sometimes they are cancelled so late that patients have already put on surgical clothing and received medication. Some 20 000 planned operations are cancelled at a late stage each year, which of course means great human suffering, both for the patient and for its relatives. Yesterday we were able to read in the newspaper that Sahlgrenska in Gothenburg has announced that 100 more operations have to be cancelled. The question that I and many others ask us is: how long can the government continue to look at without acting? How long can one continue to blame the county council? If the government with Gabriel Wikström at its head is unhappy with how the county councils handle healthcare, the government has every opportunity to give the county councils new assignments, new guidelines or even change the law. But it is clear that there is a clear unwillingness on the part of the government to deal with these tongues and for the Swedish people important questions about how to solve the lack of care places and the long queues. Mr President, I would like to We Swedish democrats will not sit and watch as the health crisis continues. That is why we will invest considerable resources in our budget in health care. We will also be presenting proposals for measures to shorten care queues and solve staff shortages.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-409	Mr President, I would like to Swedish healthcare faces major challenges, as does the whole of Swedish society. In fact, the entire earth's population faces major challenges. Even the planet itself, as we know it, faces great challenges. I think it might be appropriate to put problems in relation to each other, now that we are talking about problems. These include the threat to biodiversity, the poisoning of drinking water, the littering of the seas, and, not least, plastic residues that soon exceed the volume of marine fish stocks and, of course, the threat of a massive change in the climate. Mr President, I would like to There are many things that threaten the idyllic and the society in which we all want to live. Some of the threats need to be addressed globally, others locally. When this debate was requested, the title was: The current emergency situation in health care. Emergency crises are usually referred to when there has been a major accident, for example when important social functions for some time are knocked out or are at risk of being knocked out, when drinking water is unfit, telecommunications are shut down or when electricity is gone, or when, for example, there is a rapid spread of infection. As far as care is concerned, by now we have become accustomed to another meaning of the word crisis. Every summer, at least in the last ten summers, we have heard of a crisis in the summer crew. Human resources crisis has become a common, not to say almost normal, condition in healthcare. It's not that I'm trying to reduce the problems or deny them, but I think we should be very careful about setting up a crisis. If we're going to be able to do something about a problem, any one of us, we need to understand it first. Most of it is complex and interconnected, so a holistic approach is needed. What is the problem of health care? The simple answer is often said to be the lack of staff, as there are a lot of empty halls around the country that were closed precisely because of the difficulty of recruiting. But why is it difficult to recruit for the most important professions we have? Some certainly believe that the simple answer to that question is that wages are too low in health care. It may be part of the answer, but far from the whole truth, and here comes the overall perspective. There are no teachers, there are no truck drivers, there are no toolmakers and tool operators, there are no welders, sheet metal workers, electricians, vvs:are, floorlayers and carpenters. There's no cooks, no serving staff, no dishwashers. There is a shortage of pharmacists, chemists, engineers, receptionists, hairdressers, interpreters, fine mechanics and lots of other groups. It is therefore not only in health care that there is a shortage of staff. How can there be a shortage of staff in so many areas? Could it be because we start working later in life in Sweden than in many comparable countries, perhaps three to five years later on average than in England, for example? Could it be because many people feel that they have the opportunity to retire quite early, some even before the age of 60? Both of these possible causes are, of course, the effects of living in a rich and prosperous country where individuals can afford an alternative to working. We tend to regard this as very positive. The fact that many people try to make a living as bloggers, actors, artists, musicians, artists, comedians, writers or sports, for example, is not something we regard as negative, on the contrary, even if many are forced to give up over the years and start in a somewhat different profession. Of course, everyone who is outside the labour market is also a resource that we are bad at including, and of course there are those who suffer from occupational injuries and many who, due to illness, are not able to work either. Please note that my purpose is not to blame anyone in any way! The fact that we are talking about health problems is perhaps because we have too high or wrong expectations. We expect the care to work around the clock throughout the country and perform at the top all the time. Of course, 280 000 employees who receive over 66 million visits each year, 42 percent of whom are doctors, can make mistakes. The fact that the Care Guide, which receives over 55 million telephone calls annually, can slip sometimes is not unreasonable either. Despite this, we have a very high quality of care in Sweden. Today's young people, almost regardless of their professional orientation, have the whole world as a possible labour market. We cannot expect them to staff the care if we do not make it the attractive choice. It is not just about wages, it is about routines, working methods, working hours and opportunities to influence and develop. It is the responsibility of the health authorities to create these conditions. The government has expanded several educations in health care so that larger seniors will soon come out. Then it is important that they also choose to start working in health care and in Sweden. It's the medical authorities' job to see to it. But it cannot be easy to succeed in this for the politicians who are only prioritising the reduction of taxes.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-426	Mr President, I would like to In all health-care debates, I think it is very important to start with the current situation in Sweden. We have one of the best health care systems in the world. We have outstanding medical results at a still limited cost. Having said that, the major challenges facing us must also be seen. When everyone in this House, our friends and acquaintances visit hospitals, we meet those who see that there are huge challenges for Swedish healthcare. There are things that simply do not work, such as overcrowded waiting rooms in the emergency departments, a primary care that fails, longer and longer queues, staff who choose to resign and move to other industries. At this point, Mr President, it is ominous that we have a government that does not make proposals. Since 2014, there have been virtually no more comprehensive proposals at all in the area of health care, despite the fact that the challenges are there. These are, above all, two major areas in which I see that we have great concerns. First of all, it's about primary care. We have a primary care that goes on its knees today, a primary care where fewer and fewer people have a fixed doctor's contact. Sweden is really in ironing class here. Only 50 per cent of the Swedish population have a permanent medical contact in primary care. In all other countries the figure is 80 - 90 percent. In Norway it is almost 100 percent. This has consequences. Primary care is the basis of the Swedish healthcare system as a whole. If you do not have access to a fixed doctor's contact, then it means that you do not get the help you need. So you choose to go to the emergency room and sit there in the waiting room. Why wait for a relay doctor at the health centre in a situation where an unknown doctor in the emergency department can give me the same help? This is a huge challenge to make Swedish healthcare work. If you do not have stable and functional primary care, you cannot make the rest of the healthcare system work either. It wouldn't have to be like this. You can change that. We are one of the countries in Europe with the highest medical density. But there are no initiatives from the government. No, that's wrong. There has been an initiative from the government. It has been decided to appoint a coordination officer at the Government Office to coordinate the development of Swedish primary care. There are 10 million patients and thousands of employees. These are major problems, and the government's initiative is to appoint a coordinator to solve them. It wouldn't have to be like this. All we have to do is look at our neighboring country. Norway had exactly the same problem in the 1990s. Only half of the Norwegian population had access to a permanent medical contact. There was a powerful government, an Arbeider Party government, which under Jens Stoltenberg's leadership said that they could not have it that way. They found it completely unreasonable that half the Norwegian population had a staffet doctor, not infrequently from Sweden, who manned. That is why they carried out the fixed-term reform. In just a few years they had had a completely different situation. Today, 90-100% of the Norwegian population have access to a permanent medical contact in primary care. Based on this, you can build on it. The Arbeider government pushed this through with a few simple, structural changes. They lowered the threshold for doctors to establish themselves privately in primary care. They gave patients the right to choose doctors, and they also lowered the training requirements. This has led to a well-functioning primary care in Norway. The second area that worries me very much is the increasing queues. Accessibility is poor in Swedish healthcare. It is surprising that no more is done when we have a social democratic government. Long queues in Swedish health care affect the people who have the worst. Those who have neither cash nor contacts do not make it through a queue society. Those who have a strong employer or a well - filled wallet can always get a private health insurance, as more and more people do. But the single mother with two children doesn't make it. She's the one who gets hit. This has consequences for the gaps in Swedish society in terms of access to healthcare. It also has medical consequences for a number of diseases where early detection is very important. Today you can wait a day, a week or a month too long. I'm surprised the government doesn't do sharper things. Here we have two rather low-hanging fruits. It is a question of re-establishing queue billions in a more modern form, and of providing patients with adequate information so that they can see for themselves how long the queues are and then use the possibility offered by the patient law, i.e. to seek another unit where the queues are shorter. It takes a lot of force here. This is a totally unacceptable situation. I would like the government to put aside the rhetoric of pointing out the private carers as the cause of concern. The government should try to find cross-block agreements where we can seriously take care of and find solutions to the really big challenges that Swedish healthcare has. It should not engage in the shadow game of attacks on private health care providers or in appointing coordination people as the only salutary solution to the challenge of Swedish healthcare.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-441	Mr President, I would like to For eight years in power, the right-wing government focused on turning health care into a market, where the means of control is Since 1990, several reforms have been implemented in order to market and privatise Swedish healthcare. Has it been successful? Is it all right? We can look at various indicators, such as Sifo's survey of Swedes' confidence in healthcare. In 2011, 60 per cent of Swedes had high or very high confidence in healthcare. In 2014, the corresponding figure was 41 per cent. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this happened during the time when the former Alliance ruled the kingdom. The Left Party sees healthcare as an important part of the common welfare. The resources must be directed where they are most needed. We want to see a health care that works preventively and health-promotingly and which also starts from a social holistic approach. Differences in health between different groups are still evident. It's about educational background. All major causes of death in the population – heart disease, stroke, cancer, accidents, suicides and alcohol-related diagnoses – are more common among those with short education. It can be said that the interest of the previous government in this matter was minimalist. Women with only primary education have had the least favourable development in this group. The remaining life expectancy at the age of 30 has hardly increased at all in the last 20 years. Unequal health should be high on the agenda, but the Swedish Democrats are hardly a party that, together with the former Alliance, would ask for an up-to-date debate on this. They don't. Resources are not everything, but without the Left in the budget negotiations, there would not have been 10 billion worth of welfare per year during the term of office. These will strengthen health care. The Left has also negotiated funds for maternity care, mental health and free mammography, as well as resources for interventions in economically vulnerable areas. Now, of course, I have a question. You in the previous government reduced taxes by 140 billion in eight years. Do you think that somehow affects welfare? Does it affect health care? Did Sweden get better care of the reduced taxes? This can be considered. Now you are dizzying around like dizzy chickens to find the best way to prevent a minimum tax increase of SEK 200 for those who earn 55 000. I'm afraid I have to say that welfare isn't really your thing. After many years of cutbacks and a stressed working environment, it is easy to understand all those in health care – doctors, nurses, nurses and others – who listen to the agency's call for higher salaries and better conditions. However, permanent staff remain with an increasing workload. For healthcare as a whole, this is a vicious circle that leads to a lack of continuity and less teamwork, specifically in the large emergency hospitals. We will be dealing with departments that need to be closed because of staff shortages. In the summer, nurses and midwives in emergency and delivery departments are forced to postpone their holidays again. That's what it looks like year after year. In the healthcare sector, there are major system errors dealing with governance. Sweden, compared to many other countries, has worse results in coordinating healthcare for patients and fewer fixed medical contacts. The differences between county councils in Sweden are too great in terms of content, structure and care. We need clearer national governance without detailed governance. Healthcare cannot differ too much around the country. The Left Party wants all health care personnel to have good wages and better conditions. The key to good care is better conditions for the staff. We'll never get around this. Increase resources for health care! Give national control without detailed control! Go for equal care! It should be specific initiatives that benefit those with short education and those with the worst health. They need guidance. Offer permanent employment! Give patients greater influence by developing meetings, not by means of the assembly-band principle, which prevails in the Stockholm region, for example. National coordination of health education is also needed. Working hours need to be shortened, which the Health Care Association together with SKL is now building up. In order to get staff to want to work in welfare professions, you need not only increased wages but also a better working environment. Introduce new guidelines for rental staff so that it decreases sharply in the long term! SKL has now started working on this in a more effective way. Let nurses specialise in full payment, just like doctors! Here, too, projects have been launched by the Health Care Association and SKL. Great! Hire more administrators and nurses! Customize structures so that employees gain more power over their work situation! Focus on patients, not on the market!
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-457	Mr President, I would like to Initially, in this debate, I want to establish that Swedish healthcare is of very high quality, and it is thanks to skilled, dedicated and hard-working employees. As several speakers have said, medical care is achieving excellent results, in fact world-class. Patients can be sure that the treatment they receive is very good. Mr President, I would like to Every person should have the freedom to govern his or her life, health and future according to his or her desires, needs and conditions. People are strengthened by the power and knowledge to choose, by the possibility of being involved and by a treatment that makes the care personal, a care that sees individual needs and overall needs and does not look at an anonymous patient or patient group. The debate we are now having is important and good. But it's also quite strange. It is requested by the Swedish Democrats. I did a search on SD's website to see what the party's health policy really stands for. I met with four points, Mr President. The first was the right to full-time employment for public sector staff – more hands in healthcare. We hadn't heard that one before. The others were the strengthening of high-cost protection for health care and medicines, and no patient fee for people over the age of 85, and a targeted government grant to address the shortage of care places. There was nothing more, Mr President. It was empty. But not for nothing, it is an important debate initiative that SD has taken within one of the most central parts of the core of welfare. Thank you to the Swedish Democrats for the initiative! Mr President, I would like to Liberal healthcare puts people at the centre – as a patient, as an employee and as a family member. Medical advances, increased knowledge and active public health work have led to an ever longer and richer life for very many and more healthy years in the population. Only this working week has extended the life span by three and a half hours, possibly not for those of us who have worked all week, but for the population as a whole. Liberals are convinced that tomorrow's health care can be given in a new way and much more on the patient's terms. We strive for a strong patient position. We strive to ensure equal care, accessible care and care where everyone is seen, wherever you live. But then we have to change direction. We must move from a policy of opinion to a policy of understanding. Mr President, I would like to The reality is in many places quite far from the description I have just made. Swedish care has too many shortcomings, often in accessibility. It takes too long to receive care, and once given, it is often fragmented and incoherent. There are also problems with the response. It's about getting to feel like a whole person and not just as a diagnosis or a part of the body. People are missing too often, and quality work lags behind. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, one must also consider what the government is doing. Well, there are often targeted additions to activities in 21 different realities. Hence, these targeted efforts are most symbolic. Yes, Västernorrland needs more money to strengthen maternity care. My Halland probably doesn't need it. None of the 21 counties need short-term unplanned efforts, but everyone needs long-term and freedom to operate according to regional conditions. Mr President, I would like to Weak management and governance is a recurring mantra in the review of the Government's decisions by the Swedish National Audit Office and other authorities. It removes successful and effective incentives, such as queue billions, on which others have been involved. A dead hand is laid over stimulating competition and innovation by discussing profits and forms of operation rather than seeing the real underlying problems. Diversity and freedom of choice, Mr President, strengthen both the patient and the care. Because care can be run and organised in different ways, different parts of care can learn from each other. It inspires and contributes to the development of the entire healthcare system. When patients are given the power to choose for themselves, there is a positive competition for healthcare ideas that can push quality upwards. Diversity also gives people working in health care more employers to choose between and push wages upwards. Mr President, I would like to We need to change direction. We need to change direction completely in Swedish health care. We need to move from opinion to insight.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-468	Mr President, I would like to A few weeks ago, we at the hospital doctor were able to read a review of a number of lex Maria notifications, where health care had led to death and this had been reported. We could read about a case where the wrong patient was given blood thinners and this patient died. We could read about a 72-year-old man in need of active respiratory care and intermediate care place who was instead placed on the urologist and then died. We could read about a woman who was moved around without proper control. When she was operated on, it was too late. The woman died. We could read about a back-operated patient who was moved at night despite the operator's protests and died. In one quarter of the cases, the death was due to a lack of care, a shortage of staff or an extreme workload. These causes resulted in an average of one death a month. The fact that there are no more – but it is not said that not every single case is a case too much – depends on the enormous, heroic efforts that healthcare professionals in all categories make every day to make care work. In measurement after measurement, Sweden is at the top in terms of health care performance. It is about survival, serious diseases and even cure and relief. But this is not a matter of course for the future. We must take seriously the challenges we face. Today, two debaters with a focus on future analyses in Today's Society write: The future of health care can be perceived as a rapid countdown on the downfall. It doesn't have to get that bad. I guess it's a good thing they wrote that last one: It doesn't have to be that bad. However, if we do not take the challenges seriously and see the structural challenges ahead, we will not remain at the top. We have a care that will not meet the challenges if we do not use our health care resources better. That is why we Christian Democrats have put forward proposals to transfer responsibility for advanced hospital care to the state. It is not acceptable that we have a country where your survival depends on where you live. It is not acceptable for one's home address to affect how long one will have to wait for a vital operation or that one's ability to get relief from pain in the face of death is affected by where one lives. The differences we have in health care, we can work away. But then we need to have an organisation that is adapted to the health needs of the future. In addition to the nationalisation of hospital care, we Christian Democrats have proposed the introduction of health services teams to take advantage of the specific knowledge of all staff. Those who have a long care education should be able to focus on their task. Then you should include more staff categories that can work with other things that are also necessary for the care to work. We have said that it is high time the government reintroduced the cue billions. The effect when the queue billion was removed was just the expected one: that the queues increased. It's not decent. We have proposed the introduction of repatriation teams. When you are ready to go home from the hospital to your previous accommodation or to another adapted accommodation, there should be someone who takes responsibility for the entire process to get the rehabilitation you need directly and to be safe when you go home. It also allows us to remove some clots in hospitals more quickly, so that people who need to get up in a ward will not have to stay in an overcrowded emergency room. We heard earlier in the debate Karin Rågsjö mention what confidence the population has in health care. I understand that Karin Rågsjö did not tell us what was said about the last year in comparison with the alliance government. In the report from the Swedish Agency for Health and Welfare Analysis released before Christmas last year, you can read that it is now 31 percent that is satisfied compared with 43 percent three years earlier. Trust in health care is declining because we now have a government that does not take the major challenges seriously.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-478	Mr President, I would like to I have now listened to the opposition representatives when they describe the situation in Swedish healthcare and realise that there are many similarities between my description and the descriptions of the opposition. We have far too long care lines, and they have grown in recent years. We have problems in terms of coordination between different parts of Swedish healthcare and not least in terms of cooperation between county councils and municipalities. We also have major problems in terms of the supply of skills. However, if you want to be taken seriously as a debater and if you want to be regarded as serious when you are in opposition, it is not enough just to highlight the problems that exist, but also to present solutions. There it is more thin on the opposition's list of actions. What is being achieved, however, are well-known proposals from bourgeois and Swedish democrats. It is about privatisations to solve the problems of care. A paradox is also a question of nationalisation, in the form of the change of headship of the Christian Democrats. But above all, there are major tax cuts. When you look at the draft budgets presented by the opposition, you realise that the talk about prioritising health care and the speech about raising the issue higher up on the political agenda is just empty talk. When, in concrete figures, in action, they are going to show what priorities they want to make for the future, it is again tax reductions, tax reductions and tax reductions that are on the agenda. Since the major problem in Swedish health care is precisely the lack of staff or, for that matter, lack of staff's ability to devote their time to meeting patients, my question is to the opposition parties: How will less resources – this is about resources that fund your tax cuts – contribute to the care to increase the number of hands and feet in healthcare? How is it going to help everyone who is working hard today – it's about all the heroes in the Swedish healthcare system – get more colleagues, get relief and during a long shift can get a break in order to be able to go to the bathroom or eat their box lunch? How can more tax cuts solve this problem? From the government's side, we have chosen to focus on precisely what is the great challenge of healthcare. Among other things, it is about getting more educated, especially specialist nurses but also other nurses, midwives and not least nurses. We are seeing the major shortcomings here today, and we are seeing how this affects and leads to the cancellation of operations or the growth of waiting times. But we also want to improve the working environment. One of the most important health and safety issues for healthcare professionals is that you should not feel unscrupulous. It is available when you go home from work and do not feel that you have been able to do your job as well as you know you can do. It is often because you have had to devote your time to things other than seeing the patients. This is because we have been burdened with administration, or it is because we have had to cover up for colleagues who are not there. This is why the government has made major efforts to improve e-health in healthcare, but also to provide funds for hiring more people in Swedish healthcare. It is by investing in staff that we face and solve health care problems, not through new major tax cuts.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-486	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, it was noticed that the Government had chosen to write its speech before coming here instead of listening to the various representatives of the Riksdag. The quality of welfare arises in the amazing encounter between the health care worker and the patient, and it does so every day. The quality of welfare is what we want to strengthen. Then we will make sure that we do everything in terms of legislation and incentives to clarify the development potential needed in this meeting in order to strengthen precisely the quality of welfare. Mr President, I would like to It requires reforms. This requires concrete action. This requires concrete proposals. More than half the term of office has now passed. The Government has been here several times in Parliament. The bill list is still empty. We are still waiting for the health reforms. We are told that the investigations will now be processed. They're being processed. The investigations have been in the department for over a year. Responsive has come in. But this never leaves the drawer. It does not come up on the bill list, and it certainly does not come to Parliament. This is extremely regrettable. This is where it is intended to be man-glazed and discussed in order for us to come up with a roadmap for the important challenges of healthcare. You can stand here, Mr President, and talk about the importance of care and the importance of the heroes of care. But they must also be given content, concrete proposals and concrete measures. I therefore chose, Mr President, to look at what the Government was doing before coming here today. It's Thursday. It's a government meeting. The government has had a meeting this morning. I looked at the government list. It's about as empty as the bill list. This is now the case this week, but it is just one example of the government not meeting the Thursday sittings. Concrete proposals are needed to address the challenges we have now discussed. Then I have to put this into practice. Today, in Parliament, we discussed some 300 concrete proposals. There are 300 concrete proposals on health care only. Most of them came from the alliance parties and the Moderates. Some ten of them came from the Swedish Democrats. So there is still a lot to be done for the Swedish Democrats if you are to tackle the major challenges that exist for health care. The job's still here. What about the government parties? There is no interest in taking on any part of this. It was about the multisick elderly. It was a matter of fixed health contact. It was about shortening waiting times. It was about improving accessibility. There was no interest in the government parties. Then the ball is still with the government parties. When are these suggestions coming? I had three concrete questions for the Government. The first was how he would improve accessibility and when the government would come up with the proposals. Are they coming in the spring bill? It seems to be a popular place to put the proposals in. Then I had a second question. The intention of the Health Act should be constantly improved and tightened. No matter where in Sweden you are a patient, you should receive treatment within a reasonable time. It should be the same no matter where you are. When are the concrete proposals coming? My third question was linked to the ambulance staff and the blue-light staff, who are victims of crime. When is the special penalty for these people coming? When will the penalties for these crimes be tightened? Will the government parties vote against those proposals in Parliament? Or is the government prepared to stand up to help the health workers in the harsh environment in which they find themselves? Health care requires additional resources. It is clear that the government parties have not even read the Moderates' proposals in the Riksdag. We proposed 20 billion to health care and to welfare. It is in Category 25 and was discussed in the Riksdag. You rejected that proposal. There are more resources available for health care. You said no.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-498	Mr President, I would like to I'll just give a quick answer to the Liberals Bengt Eliasson, who believes that the parties' entire health care policy is on the parties' websites. No, it's not like that. The whole health policy of the parties is presented in budget motions or in expenditure area movements here in Parliament. Bengt Eliasson, who is a Member of Parliament, should also know that. We Swedish democrats see accessibility and the lack of health care places as the most important issue to address. The lack of availability has several reasons, which is why a battery of measures will of course be needed. Both resource and organisational changes will be needed. However, as a common thread, the problem of closed care places is usually due to a lack of trained staff, usually specialist nurses. We are absolutely convinced that part of the solution to the problem of closed care places and the lack of availability of care is to put in place strong and targeted measures to retain existing staff and to attract back staff who have for some reason stopped. Currently there are about 9 000 trained nurses who have left the care and work in other activities. This means that 8 per cent of Sweden's total number of nurses have left the profession completely. However, many of these may consider returning if conditions improve. We believe that these nurses are an untapped resource that could be attracted back with the right conditions and under the right conditions. Among nurses between 25 and 49 years of age, more than half of them were willing to return to health care if they had more opportunities to control their work situation and had a more reasonable workload. If one could only get some of those who have left health care to return, it would be a great asset for health care. That is why, Mr President, as I said, we will be presenting a number of major initiatives and proposals, all of which are aimed at improving the work situation of health professionals by making it more attractive to work in health care, which will ultimately mean shorter care queues for patients, but also opening up all the closed care places in the country. In fact, a survey shows that around 1,500 health care places are currently empty in the country's largest hospital. That's equal to every tenth bed. Mr President, I would like to We will invest in all the nurses, nurses and doctors who form the basic bolt of health care and who make health care work today. It should be borne in mind that health professionals are one of the most important assets of the welfare society. Therefore, they must be given the right conditions and opportunities to work in a good working environment, but also opportunities to further train and increase their skills in their profession. The lack of specialist nurses is, as we have heard, a major problem in Swedish healthcare. This has meant cancelling operations and closing health departments. The shortage is partly due to the fact that nurses have paid for their specialist training themselves. Thus, many choose not to retrain themselves to specialists, even if they would like to. That is why we will also introduce a substantial upgrading of skills while maintaining salary during specialist training for nurses so that more people have the opportunity to train as specialists. Mr President, I would like to We also want to raise the status of the assistant profession. Nurses are a very important part of the health care staff. We believe that it is time to introduce a common, national training for nurses that ensures the quality of the profession and leads to identification. In most of Europe's countries and in all our Nordic neighbours, the profession of assistant nurse is a licence profession. It is about improving patient safety and improving the quality of healthcare, and about making it more attractive to train as a nurse.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-507	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates say the bill list is empty. I can only say that there are 182 proposals listed, including 25 from the Ministry of Social Affairs. The population of Sweden is growing. We have now passed 10 million, and we are expected to continue to grow. The average age also continues to increase by three and a half hours per day, according to the Pensions Group's information material. This means that health care tasks are constantly increasing. According to figures, the total cost of the Swedish county councils was 318 billion in 2015 and the following year 331 billion. This year the cost is expected to land at SEK 348 billion. It is an increase rate of about 5%. Operations that expand so rapidly often have problems. It's hard to grow fast. Over the last ten years, the needs of health care personnel have increased by almost 20 000 people. Today, therefore, some 280 000 people work in health care. The age distribution among health care workers is also not the most appropriate – because very many people do not have that long to retirement age, and humps and unequal distributions in the labour force are never really good for those who are going to run, manage and distribute the work. In fact, it is so bad that in 2015, 1 300 people were employed in county councils over 70 years of age. Of course, this situation has not arisen for just a few years, but it is decades of history that are behind it. I therefore question the assertion that this would be an emergency. This is a development that has been going on for a long time. However, healthcare has many and major problems. However, they have not arisen as a matter of urgency, and I believe that there is no real crisis either, except possibly in Stockholm. We mainly have good care in Sweden. Most patients are actually satisfied. More and more people survive after cancer and cardiovascular diseases. Nothing, however, is so good that it cannot get better. It must not be forgotten that Sweden is changing, and so is healthcare. New specialities are being developed, and specialists' specialties are becoming increasingly narrower. In this way, care can also do a lot more today than 20 years ago, so what was then called highly specialised care can often be quite day-to-day activities in healthcare. So let us not forget that the geographical and demographic development in Sweden makes it difficult in many places in Sweden to maintain high quality because there is no basis for it. When the Christian Democrats say that you should have the same care everywhere, you can therefore interpret it as not allowing people to settle anywhere. In fact, it is not possible to have the best care in every place in the country. The best care can only be found in one place – the second best is only the second best. I therefore find that discussion a little strange. I believe that the care that the expanded primary care cannot cope with must be brought together at much larger units in order to maintain the competence that I believe both staff and patients have the right to demand, because it is also a health and safety issue.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-516	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Health said: How can less resources for care provide better care? That is one of the most common social democratic arguments. If you look at the period 2006 to 2014 so certainly, we reduced the tax by 140 billion. But 2014 was the year when we got the most tax money in this country. Only the county and municipal sector had 200 billion more in 2014 than they had in 2006. We made sure that more resources were allocated to health care, partly through increased state subsidies, but not least by the fact that a great many more people came into work. The Minister for Health says privatisation is not the solution. But what I do when it comes to primary care is point to the example of Norway. They had just as miserable a situation in the mid-1990s as we had. Only half of the population had access to a permanent medical contact. There it was an active Labour Party government under Jens Stoltenberg who said that it is totally unacceptable for Swedish relay doctors to cut gold with a knife and offer poor health care and poor primary care to the Norwegian population. Stoltenberg pushed through a powerful reform that makes them today at the top – 98 percent of the Norwegian population have fixed medical contact in primary care, albeit largely the entire Norwegian primary care is private today. But there the goal, a functioning primary care, was thought to be more important than dogmatic socialism, which means that all the private should be removed. With regard to the investments that the Minister for Health points out, the training effort is of course very important. We made such an effort during the time of the alliance government as well. Medical training increased from 900 to 1,400 per year, and there were also increases in the other areas. We're behind it. We think it is absolutely right. We need to train more and, not least, we need to take advantage of all the competent nurses, midwives, doctors, dentists and pharmacists who today come from other countries. But that is not the solution to the Swedish problems. Then there was the question of the targeted efforts for maternity care. Yes, maternity care in Sweden has problems, but they are not solved with special benefits. I have called around and talked to several friends and colleagues who today sit as heads of operations in women's clinics and carry out childbirth activities. I have asked what they are using the money for, for example, if they raise wages. No, Anders, they say. I must understand that they cannot increase the salaries of a temporary state grant. Then I wonder where they are instead, if they hire more midwives. No, they say. Firstly, I should know that there are no midwives to hire, and secondly, for a temporary state grant, they cannot hire more staff. That cost remains on the day the state grant disappears. Then I wonder what they're using the money for. They say they are renewing the machinery fleet, investing in new appliances and making temporary training efforts for existing staff. However, it is not temporary state grants that will solve the major concerns of Swedish maternity care. The most serious threat I see today to Swedish health care is what the government, together with the Left Party, is pushing, namely to pull away the bones for that part of Swedish health care that is conducted privately. 40 per cent of the Swedish population have chosen a private health centre. Large parts of them will not be able to live on in a situation where the Reepalu investigation proposal is being carried out. I have visited Söderhamnsfjärden Health Centre. It's an amazingly good business. I asked them how they will do it. They say that one option is to invest heavily in real estate, but they don't want to do that. They have prepared to close the operation within three months. If there is something that would really create a crisis in Swedish health care, it is precisely that the Reepalus inquiry's proposal goes through. My absolute advice to the government is to make sure to put the investigation in the trash. There are big enough challenges in Swedish healthcare without further aggravating the situation.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-526	Mr President, I would like to Now we are not entitled to lines, but I think Anders W Jonsson should take a walk around the paradise of profits Stockholm County Council and look. Why don't you take a ride by and see what happens? Mr President, I would like to Back to my speech. What is striking in healthcare is that those with the greatest need are furthest away from care, i.e. those with addiction problems, mental ill health, those with multisickness and those with cancer. It is as Health Care Analysis says in one of its reports, namely that health care is best at capturing them with limited needs – not those who need more efforts that require cooperation. In alliance-led Stockholm County Council, 535 care places are currently missing due to staff shortages. During the Christmas and New Year holidays there were 900 places. In this region, the equivalent of an entire hospital is permanently closed. The Stockholm County Council was previously the large display window of the right towards the rest of Sweden. Here we talk a lot about health choices, but for the sickest, it is a health crisis in the region. The Swedish Democrats are talking about an article written by children's doctors. They work at the New Karolinska Hospital. It is the hospital, apart from Sahlgrenska in Gothenburg and Lund Hospital, that has closed its care places. I guess it's your friends, if I don't remember completely. Let me get back to the New Karolinska Hospital. It would be a flagship. 1 529 doctors have responded to a questionnaire. 75 percent of doctors know about patients who have suffered injury due to the lack of a place of care in recent years. This is almost 50 per cent more than in 2015. This is a policy supported by the Alliance. Moderates, center parties, liberals, Christian Democrats and Swedish democrats are pressing the same buttons. It's not just in Stockholm County Council it looks bad. Let us look around the large regions. We can make impact in Västra Götaland and Region Skåne. They have large populations to take care of. This should be fantastic thanks to your politics, but it does not go like the train there. Have you produced proposals that benefit staff in the Stockholm region, Västra Götaland and Skåne region? Not that I hear and see. Without staff who feel that politicians listen and understand the structural problems, we are in a leaking sieve. Another care must be possible, but it requires a policy that prioritises welfare rather than tax cuts. Nurses, nurses and doctors are fighting for better working environment, better working conditions and relevant salaries. They hardly get that by means of tax reductions or tax exemptions for the absolutely richest in the country or extreme profit withdrawals. It's all connected. Healthcare as a market will never respond to the needs of those who need care most – rather, it is to the needs of the companies. I have travelled around a lot in Sweden and talked to those who carry up health care. In a right-wing debate, it sounds like the crisis has come out of the bottle like the spirit, but this is a crisis that has emerged for about ten years. Now we have a current debate on welfare. It's up to date every day. The care is up to date every day. I think you should call your friends in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö and give them a message, namely to invest in the staff so that patients receive patient-safe care.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-538	Mr President, I would like to I note that in the Liberals we use our website and other networks to spread our policies and show what we want. But perhaps it is a recipe for success not to do so unless you have any active suggestions. On our website there are currently 171 sharp proposals on healthcare and care, and there are active links to all the exercises that we have raised here. Mr President, I would like to It singles a lot through the air in the debate, and it is interesting to penetrate all of this. Let me take the staff shortage as an example. In fact, Sweden has seen many doctors internationally. That's how it is. There are far more nurses than in other countries. There are 4.1 trained doctors per 1,000 inhabitants compared to the OECD average of 3.1. There are 11.2 practicing nurses per 1 000 inhabitants compared to the OECD average of 8.8. However, we get medical visits and nursing visits of this amount. There are 2.4 doctor visits per 1 000 inhabitants, and the EU average is 7.1. It's a slightly slanted figure because there are different categories of staff who do different things – but still. Nevertheless, reports of difficulties in recruiting staff are constantly coming back. Those pictures don't make sense. The staff are on site, trained and ready, in Sweden today – but they are on other jobs. Why? This is often due to the fact that working conditions are too bad. You choose to work elsewhere, where scheduling is better, pay is better, management is better, governance is better, you understand where the workplace is going and you have influence. These are insights that must exist if you are to lead Swedish health care. There are two public groups where similar reports have been presented. It's the police and the health care. Both talk about staff flight, that nobody wants to work there, that there is poor management and governance and that they do not know where the workplace is going. Mr President, I would like to The second example is the care queues. That issue has been discussed several times. A patient is entitled to treatment on time. One of the red-green government's first efforts was to eliminate queue billions. Even the Minister says that ever since then the care queues have become longer. As onions on the salmon, forms of operation are discussed, and freedom of choice is painted as a major problem. Post-investigation studies show that accessibility and response are deteriorating. Mr President, I would like to Liberals want to reintroduce a permanent modern queue billions and focus on short waiting times throughout the care. It is not just a question of the first visit, but of the respective level of care. Modern queue billions must include diagnostics and return visits, as well as rewarding coordination and continuity. The money is available for this, Mr President. If more people are in work, more tax revenue will also come in. Then you don't have to tax to death those who still have a job.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-547	Mr President, I would like to In these debates, we always return to what happened during the years when the Alliance ruled Sweden and not least Swedish health care. It is a little far-fetched with sums in tax cuts, but it is very rarely mentioned what they did with tax revenues. That's what's important. It is how much money we have to move with that determines how much we can afford to develop welfare. This was done during the years when we were responsible for Sweden. Well-being developed. Between 2006 and 2014, there were 3,500 more doctors and 5,200 more nurses. This is because we took responsibility for Sweden. We made sure to have a tax policy that makes it worthwhile to work. We got drivers for work that makes more people work so that we can afford more. Now the government has announced further tax increases. It is even the case that the Institute of Economic Development goes out and warns that we will receive marginal taxes such as in the 1970s, marginal taxes which are harmful. The Institute of Economics warns that the supply of work will be hampered and the incentives to work will not be available. At the same time as we have a situation where when the Public Employment Service lists the 20 professions that are most lacking, seven are in health care: specialist nurses in emergency health care and in general health care, X-ray nurses, basic nurses, midwives, psychologists and doctors. The seven are on that list – and many of them are exactly the ones that will be affected by the government's new proposal for tax increases. We heard former representatives of the government talking about the importance of older workers. But the current government has, of course, gone in with precision to ensure that the supply of work for older workers is reduced again. We removed the special payroll tax for older employees. We made sure that those over 65 years of age received a double tax deduction, which meant that more people chose to stay and work, give a little more hours and above all share their important experience and skills. Is it worth doing it when you can't keep anything for yourself? No, apparently the answer is from the elderly themselves because they no longer choose to continue working to the same extent. These are the skills we need. When we have a shortage of health professionals, we must take every opportunity we have to take advantage of those who have the long training and skills that are needed, to take advantage of that resource. The government's policy is not just a lack of politics, it is directly counterproductive. Finally, Mr President, it makes me very worried when it turns out that there is a government party that has not understood at all how important it is for patients throughout the country to have access to the best care. It is precisely those who do not live where the best care is available who would benefit from access to care throughout the country. No one wants to be the patient who comes to the hospital and makes the operator say: Now I get to do an operation like this. Everyone will get surgery where they have the best skills.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-556	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, round two didn't turn out to be as different as it should have been. It is still proposals for tax reductions and privatisations that dominate opposition parties. I would like to come back to what is the main challenge for Swedish health care: investing in staff. We know that we have shortcomings in various specialities. We know that we have shortcomings in many parts of the country. We know that we need to do more to enable the staff to devote their time to actually meeting the patients. This has also been the government's great project from day one. If you read our budget proposals, you can see that we have made great investments in staff. This has been about a billion-dollar profession, where parts have now been directed towards study wages for those who choose to further train themselves to specialist nurses. We have given a number of official assignments to improve staff supply, and we have greatly expanded the training places for those who train as midwife, specialist nurse and nurse. Most recently, we have presented a half-billion-dollar investment in maternity care – money that can go to, among other things, study wages for those who choose to further educate themselves to midwife. We will have to do much more in terms of staff supply in Swedish health care. However, we are not valiant to pull resources aside to invest instead in tax cuts. Health professionals are not valiant to privatise more activities. Instead, it is about investing in public health care and providing resources, not withdrawing. I will come back to some of the points that I see we need to work on in the next few years. Finally, I can answer Cecilia Widegren's question: yes, we will review stricter penalties for those who attack blue-light personnel.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-566	Mr President, I would like to The challenges of health care deserve more than rhetoric. It also deserves well-being and the important employees of care. It also deserves the patients waiting in the care line. Today, there are over 100,000 of us who have been waiting for more than 90 days. Then it is not good enough to note that waiting times are growing. The Prime Minister did that when he was here a few hours ago. He noted that they are growing. But we expect the concrete proposals to come back to Parliament. We see an opening in the spring bill and, of course, hope that concrete proposals will come in those who handle the growing healthcare queues. We all agree that this challenge is among the greatest, and we shall do something about it. I also got that from the Prime Minister in here today. The second challenge is that in Sweden of the Social Democrats today it is the place of residence that determines what care you receive, what treatment you receive and what chance of survival you get. Then it is a clear advantage to live in Halland or in Jönköping. It is much worse for those who become a patient to live in Västernorrland, Västerbotten or Jämtland. This is to mention a few examples – I'm starting from the open comparisons that the National Board of Health and Welfare regularly updates on its website. This isn't good enough. The Health Act is extremely clear. In this area too, Parliament expects concrete proposals. I note that the ambulance staff have to look forward to extremely clear information from the Government and the Riksdag. There will be tightening up so that you as a blue light staff will not have to get into insecurity and uncertainty about what you are dealing with. I am very pleased that we have had this debate here today, but it assumes that there will be concrete proposals from the government. It also places great demands on the Swedish Democrats to return to the Riksdag with concrete proposals to improve Swedish healthcare. It is not just opening a debate; it must end with concrete proposals.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-573	Mr President, I would like to Recently, the Swedish Agency for Health Care and Care Analysis released a report evaluating the new patient law. The purpose of the Act was to strengthen patients' position in healthcare. However, on a number of points in the evaluation it appears that the law is toothless and that the patient's position has not been strengthened. In some cases it has even become worse. I'm really worried about that. One area is coordination of health care contacts. It is clear from the report that Sweden, in an international comparison, is the country where patients are helped to coordinate their care to a minimum. This can be about help with receiving care in another county council once the care guarantee has expired. Instead, a great responsibility is placed on the patient himself to coordinate care. Of course, it cannot be reasonable for the patient's initiative to determine what care and assistance he receives. As I said earlier in the debate, we come up with a lot of proposals in the budget. These are measures to increase access to healthcare, but also to strengthen the position of patients in healthcare. Finally, I would like to thank you for the debate and thank everyone who took part in it; it has nevertheless been a rather good debate. Let us hope that health care will be better for everyone.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-578	Mr President, I would like to The representatives of the Alliance parties seem to live very far from reality, or they do not make their puzzle go together. On the one hand, they tell us that the surgical queues are long, on the other hand they say that everyone should be allowed to do their operations in the place where the best skills are available. So you're going to close down all the other surgical clinics in the country than just the best place. Fascinating information! I hope you're not serious about what you're saying. You claim that it is unacceptable for people to settle down so that they do not have access to the best care in their vicinity. In fact, I believe that the Swedish people want to decide where they settle, regardless of how the publicly funded activities look and are located and distributed in the country. Mr President, I would like to It has been pointed out that we have plenty of nurses and doctors in this country, but we still have problems. I have explained many of the reasons I believe are behind the fact that we have these problems. We obviously need to educate more people because we have an age pyramid in healthcare. This is a problem that has arisen for a long time and will take a long time to address. The risk is that major efforts with training now lead to new humps – this is very difficult. It is a social engineering art that is not easy to handle, and even harder, perhaps, when you have many private players in the market. We know that about 80% of the resources of care go to patients who have a chronic illness. From our side, we believe that it is important that we try to ensure that the care needs can be moved from hospital care to the patient-related care that can be given primarily within what we in Sweden call primary care.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-582	Mr President, I would like to I was pleasantly surprised when the Swedish Democrats requested this current debate on health care. I thought that there would now be concrete information; now they are entering the serious debate on health care. In the past, there have been rather bizarre proposals from the Swedish Democrats. There has been a desire to reduce access to interpreters in emergency hospitals, introduce mandatory HIV testing for all refugees – but not for Swedish men who go to Thailand – and ensure that those who do not have a residence permit in the country also do not have access to healthcare. Now we have had a discussion, and it has been completely empty on the part of the Swedish Democrats. Per Ramhorn has now announced that a number of concrete proposals will be made later. Mr President, I would like to In the health care where I work, I have many colleagues, working friends, such as Mahmud, Ziaul, Akram and Sheela. They have two things in common. First of all, they are excellent pediatricians, nurses, nurses, janitors and cleaners. Secondly, it does not matter what year they have fled and come to Sweden. There has always been a Swedish Democrat who has said: Stay away; you are not welcome. We don't want people like you here. Today, Swedish healthcare is carried up to 25-30 percent by people who have come to our country from other countries. They have come here as refugees or as relatives. It is on their shoulders a large part of the Swedish health care system is carried. Without them, we would indeed have a crisis in Swedish health care. This makes me even more determined to never ever contribute to the influence of the Swedish democrats, even in the field of health care. On the other hand, I urge the Swedish Democrats and Per Ramhorn to start delivering concrete proposals on the challenges facing Swedish healthcare. That has so far been lacking, Mr President.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-588	Mr President, I would like to We can all see that there are major system errors in the Swedish healthcare system. It is a lot about governance and also about the excessive differences between county councils in terms of content, structure and care. We in the Left Party want all health care personnel to have good wages and conditions; no one will disagree here. Without a decent working environment and relevant salaries, staff will not return. As we have seen, the system of rental staff leads to a lack of continuity. Welfare depends entirely on tax intake but also, as Anders says, on the people who have fled over the seas. Nice one, Anders Jonsson! Staff is the key to ensuring that care is possible. Increase resources for health care, and invest in welfare. Introduce national governance without detailing. Invest in equal care through specific initiatives that benefit those with short education. Those with the worst health must be piloted in a different way. Invest in permanent employment. Give patients greater influence to develop meetings, not according to the assembly line principle as now, with new public management – fast, short visits. It's not working. Prioritise those with low education, who need extra guidance. Shorten the working hours of those who work shifts. There you now work with SKL and the Health Association – great! Introduce new guidelines on how to reduce rental staff. Another care is possible, but it also requires that welfare is not a market but intended for the population. Efforts, innovations and a focus on equal health are needed. What is not needed are tax cuts that drain health care. That's your priority.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-594	Mr President, I would like to There have been a lot of views on Swedish healthcare in this debate, loud and low, but quite few insights. But it has been a clear-cut debate, and in that way it has been a good one. However, we have a rather high level of disease perception, Mr President, but the solutions are all the fewer. In fact, you as a patient have the right to expect much more of the care. And you who are working, or are willing to work, in health care have the right to expect more of your current or future employer – that is clear. But then there is a need for leadership and control with insight. As has become clear during the debate, we in the Alliance have a number of proposals in the area of health policy, which are actually based on that understanding and would strengthen the right to expect more from healthcare, both for patients and for staff. We will come back with more common good elements to strengthen healthcare in Sweden. We are determined to deliver improvements that strengthen freedom for Sweden's patients; we do so together. Thank you, everyone, for a good debate! It has been very inspiring to participate in it.
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-598	Mr President, I would like to No matter where in Sweden you live, no matter who you are, regardless of your gender and regardless of your contacts and resources, you should have access to the best care when you are most ill. The near care needs more resources and should be available. We don't need any more stop laws there. But at times in life where you need the absolute best skills to survive at all, you should choose to have access to that care. Obviously, this is not government policy. You don't want to protect the patient, you think more about protecting the hospitals. For us Christian Democrats, it is incredibly important that the best care is available to those who need it best, no matter who they are or where they live. The organisation of our health care today was created at a time when we did not cure. Then we could at best alleviate. Today we can cure, but the extent of your chances of survival depends on where you live. That is not acceptable. You should be able to stay right there in the country you want but still have access to the best care. Your chance of getting treatment should not depend on this. Waiting time in the emergency room is increasing. At the very end of the day, those over 80 years of age will have to wait. In the Social Democratically ruled county council where the Mälar Hospital in Eskilstuna is located, one person over 80 years on average has to wait five hours. Whoever waited the longest had to wait ten and a half hours. This is not just a question of resources – it is a question of structure and the organisation of care in the future. That should be the subject of further debate. I hope that the Minister will take the last opportunity to reply: what are the government's visions for the future?
i-7ef2c070e74e1979-603	Mr President, I would like to This was almost a P3 transition, because this is exactly what I was going to spend my last two minutes on. This debate has been very much about the acute problems of health care here and now. It is important to discuss them. There, the government has given priority to the main problem, namely the supply of skills. But the next debate we have on health care, in this House or elsewhere, should be about the future challenges. The biggest challenge is to move healthcare closer to patients. The ambition, if you want to solve the problem of the elderly having to wait in the emergency room for ten and a half hours, is not to build larger emergency rooms or a special entrance for the most severely ill, but to move the care closer to the patients. The government's vision is clear: We will have more of the care done in the patients' homes. We should have an expanded primary care that better meets the needs of not least multi-sick patients, many times older people suffering from chronic diseases. That is why the government has started a great deal of work on reforming Swedish health care. We will come back this autumn with proposals that deal with a number of parts of this in order to move forward. We will also come back in the budget proposal for next year with how we take this reform forward. I would like to point out what I said at the beginning: this is not an individual responsibility for the government, no more than it is an individual responsibility for the county councils. This is a common challenge that we must face just jointly. I hope that the next debate will be about the challenges of the future and that opposition parties can leave old cane horses on privatisations and tax cuts. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to thank you for the health debate we have had here in Parliament today. Thank you very much.
