i-1d5433a38697af7b-1	Madam President, I would like Lena Asplund has asked me what assessment I make of the possibilities of getting more women to join the defense in the next few years. She has also asked what measures I intend to take to ensure that more women apply for military basic training and to get more women to move on to the profession of officer. In order to contribute to a larger recruitment base and a broader competence within the Swedish Armed Forces, the agency will work to increase the proportion of women in the Swedish Armed Forces. The increase in the proportion of women at all levels of the Swedish Armed Forces is an important issue for the government. In connection with the suspension of military service in 2010, the Total Defence Obligation Act was amended so that the obligation to fulfil military service applies to both women and men. On 2 March this year, the government decided to reintroduce military service and basic training. The new staff supply model is an increased opportunity to reach and attract women to basic education with compulsory military service through the staffing and military service instrument. The fact that women who come into contact with the Swedish Armed Forces experience good treatment, adapted equipment and good education is fundamental to the continued involvement of women in the Swedish Armed Forces. The Swedish Armed Forces and Totalförsvarets recruitment authority are the authorities that know what competence is required for an individual to be able to carry out basic training with military service. In order to select those individuals who have the right capacity and conditions, the authorities design so-called requirements profiles. The requirements set out in the requirements profiles correspond to the basic requirements of the Armed Forces in their respective positions. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Armed Forces, with the support of the Swedish Defence Agency, to review the admission requirements and requirements profiles so that they are relevant in relation to current conditions and from a gender perspective. On behalf of the Government, the Swedish Armed Forces have set quantitative targets regarding the distribution of women and men at all levels of the agency. During the period 2018 – 2020, the agency proposes, among other things, that there should be at least 20 per cent women who carry out basic education with compulsory military service. This share is proposed to increase in the coming years. In order to contribute to a larger recruitment base and thus broaden the competence of the Swedish Armed Forces, the Government considers it of particular importance that the Authority continues to take steps to increase the proportion of women in the Agency at all levels, taking into account the current regulatory framework where the government form's demands for merit and skill in employment in the state are central. The government is following the Swedish Armed Forces' efforts to achieve a more balanced gender balance in the agency. The Government also follows the agency's other work on gender mainstreaming.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-8	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Defence, for your answer. I also think that this is an important question, and I have asked this interpellation in order for the question to be raised. I think we are in a fair agreement on this. I think it feels good that we have this little discussion about what it should be like for the women who are in the defence and for the women who want to go there. I think it is a good thing that the Recruiting Authority has been asked to review the requirements. In committee, we had a visit from the Recruitment Authority a while ago – it was a month ago or something like that – to hear how things have gone now after the decision to reinstate military service. It was about 93 percent who responded, and 6,103 were selected by the Recruiting Authority to come to trial. Of them 4,611 were men and 1,492 were women. So it was barely 25 percent women. We don't know how many of them were taken out after doing the tests. The need is about 4,000, as the Minister of Defence is well aware. Around 2 000 of them will be admitted via military service, and 2 000 people believe they will apply voluntarily to the Swedish Armed Forces. Then the question is: where do you end up with the proportion of women? It is in politics that we really control what the Swedish Armed Forces are going to do and how we are going to get a change. You can think in other ways about what you can do to make the Swedish Armed Forces more attractive to women. The Secretary of Defense mentioned, among other things, personal equipment and such. Yes, it's very important, but is there any additional added value you could create to make women want to be officers? Can some form of education, for example, be provided in the meantime that can add value to private life later? It's a little interesting to look at what it looks like in the world around us. The United States is the most equal country in this context with 17.6% female professional officers, of whom they have a significantly higher proportion of professional officers than we have. Friend of order may ask himself the question: Is the United States more equal than we are? Well, I'm having a bit of a hard time believing that-- we're a very equal country. Is it duty then? No, it is not, because the defence of the United States is entirely voluntary. What has been done there that gives you considerably more female officers than we have here today? I would also like to hear about the defence minister's visions and ambitions to bring more women to the Armed Forces. Given the subject of the next interpellation debate we are going to have here, I think it is important that the proportion is increased rapidly. As I have written in my interpellation, it takes a very long time if we continue at this rate before we even come up in Norway's share that is 11 percent women. France has 15.6%, Canada has 14.9% and the United Kingdom has 13%. We're definitely not the worst in the class. Both Finla and Denmark have fewer female officers. But that's not an answer. We should get better. I would like the Secretary of Defense to make a further statement on how he thinks you should work on it.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-17	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Armed Forces have set quantitative targets for the distribution of men and women at all levels of the agency. During 2018 – 2020, the agency proposes that at least 20 per cent of women carry out basic education and military service. It is a share that we want to increase in the coming years. According to the information that I have started, there were 870 appointments on October 1st. It is now done. 182 of the m were women, that is, 21%. If we can implement the ambition that the Swedish Armed Forces have presented, the proportion of women increases by giving us the opportunity to bring women into the Swedish Armed Forces via the military service system. Then, compared to the free basic education, it becomes a higher level. And if the training can be carried out in such a way that it is perceived as constructive and interesting, and if it is carried out in a good way from a value perspective, a good picture is created by the Swedish Armed Forces. I believe that the power of the example is crucial in the long run. One should feel that it is a good business, that there is an equal value base and that the kind of negative things that are written and witnessed if not occur. One should feel that there is zero tolerance on that point. I think that's important. I believe that the Community in the unit, that the content of education is good and that one feels respected, is the key to being able to deal with these kinds of issues in the long term. I know that the Swedish Armed Forces are doing a lot of work on fundamental values issues. But documents are not enough. It will also be implemented in practice. That's what happens in the units that's what's important. The Swedish Armed Forces have high ambitions in this area. When it comes to examples from other countries, it is interesting to take on board. I am open to information about almost anything that can lead forward. There is no reason to have any obstacles to that. If we can get information about ways to behave and act that will enable us to improve this, it is excellent. There is also a very strict regulatory framework in the field of health and safety at work. It is clearly clear that the employer is obliged to counteract conditions in the working environment that may be perceived as offensive or discriminating. Here the leadership of the Armed Forces has been very clear, in any case as I see it. Apart from what I mentioned at the outset, the fundamentals of values are also an important way of dealing with this. It is important to implement the values and to ensure that it permeates the training that will be carried out with conscripts in the following year.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-25	Madam President, I would like Peter Hultqvist and I agree on this. That's good. It is also good that the issue is raised. When it comes to quantitative targets of at least 20%, it's great. But it is important to ensure that the objectives are met. The Minister of Detention noted that 21 percent of those who had been on a contract in October were women. That's good. But in the case of the others who are to come in, the approximately 2 000 who are likely to come on a voluntary basis, more women will have to go in that way too, not just through conscription. My thinking concerns the women, perhaps 20 percent, who enter the Armed Forces via the duty system. It is important to keep them then, so that they can move on and can imagine to remain in the Armed Forces for a number of years. Not everyone will be officers, absolutely not. But several of them can become so and then have the opportunity to climb even higher. The United States apparently had the first female four - star admiral; she has retired now. So we have a little bit to walk. It is good to review personal equipment. I think a lot has happened. I'll tell you about my own impressions of the Armed Forces. I have been to rehearsal meetings and been placed in war even if I have not done military service; I am medically trained. At the beginning of the 90's I was in a military unit, and at that time it took several days before sanitary things came into place. That is not acceptable, either for men or for women. I assume that the Swedish Armed Forces have become much better at such things. These are the things you also have to look at to attract women. When you are out on exercises, there should be good sanitary equipment, and you should be able to shower. And when it comes to equipment, you shouldn't have to put on boots of size 40 and such things. There's a lot going on. I know that, but it's taken a very long time. You have to look at those things. It's good that the Secretary of Defense has these ambitions. I think the Armed Forces also have ambitions. Now it's just a matter of attracting the girls to join the Swedish Armed Forces, so that they can see that there is added value. It has been a bit bad in Sweden. In many other countries there has been a great added value in having been part of the Swedish Armed Forces, having done the trick or having been employed there. It has not really been that way in Sweden. That's too bad. But that may be the case, given that we are now talking more about defence issues and having a deteriorating world situation. We should be proud of the guys and girls who do the lump and then move on in the Armed Forces.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-35	Madam President, I would like Good treatment, adapted equipment and good education are fundamental for women to have continued involvement in the Swedish Armed Forces. Just adapted equipment is an important signal already in the initial phase of a service. Good treatment is also extremely important. You should feel welcome. And the training should be conducted in a constructive way. In terms of both the conscript side and those who have the ambition to become professional soldiers, it is basically the same thing: that it is interesting practice, which is set up in a constructive way and which is perceived as providing something for personal development and the ability to work together with others in the unit. It is also about the good functioning of fundamental values. If one can spread a picture of the Swedish Armed Forces managing it in an excellent way, one also creates a good reputation and a reputation. If we can get more women to stay and seek different professions within the Swedish Armed Forces, opportunities will also be created for the officers' parts and also the senior officers' positions. The larger the surface, the greater the pressure to get to the higher positions. I see this as a process. I also believe that the military service system, which we are now introducing, will help. At the time, many of those who took work in the Swedish Armed Forces were inspired by the military service system. They came in that way. They had never imagined a profession within the Armed Forces at all, or even thought it was an opportunity. But the military service system created that interest. I therefore hope that good training will have that effect, including on women who enter the military service, and that those who do basic training with the aim of becoming professional soldiers feel that it is so good that they have made the right choices.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-40	Madam President, I would like I am pleased with the answer given to me by the Minister for Defence. We think and feel the same about this issue, and I am pleased. It is important for the Swedish defence to bring in more women and to become more equal. As I said before, we will also address this in the next debate. It is important that there are fundamental changes in values within the Swedish Armed Forces, which may not have always been among the best in this area. I don't have much more to add than that I feel satisfied. I have raised the question, and I am pleased with the defence minister's answer. We're close here. I wish the Minister of Defence good luck in bringing in even more women who want to work within the Swedish Armed Forces.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-43	Madam President, I would like There may not be much more to add. We seem to have come to a point where we have a coherent view. We also share the view on which is the best way to deal with this. It is clear that not everything is solved in the short term, but the work must be carried on all the time in a sustained, conscious and very clear process. I hope that we will be able to see results in the coming years. I am convinced of this, and I believe that the staff supply now in force from 1 January will be an important part of achieving that result. So I would like to thank you for this debate, and then we will have to work on it together.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-46	Madam President, I would like Lena Asplund has asked me what measures I intend to take to enable the Swedish Armed Forces to become a workplace free from sexual harassment where competent women want to seek. She has also asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that my own workplace, the Ministry of Defence, is a place where there is a healthy and equal culture and a working environment free from harassment and anti-female jargon. Firstly, I would like to stress that what has come out in the Metoo call for gross violations of women can never be accepted. This type of violation of women is a serious problem that needs to be combated. Discrimination in the form of sexual harassment is prohibited under the Discrimination Act. Employers should also work actively to promote equal rights and opportunities. Equal opportunities must prevail in the working life of women and men. Violation in the form of sexual harassment is also prohibited under the occupational health and safety regulations, where the employer has an obligation to have procedures and take measures to counteract conditions in the working environment that may give rise to discriminatory treatment. The evidence of sexual harassment and violations within the Swedish Armed Forces that is behind the attention-and-biti-hop cannot leave anyone unmoved. Everyone, both women and men, should feel secure and have respect at work. It is the responsibility of the Swedish Armed Forces as an employer to take appropriate measures to address this. I note that the leadership of the Armed Forces has clearly indicated against these behaviours, and I assume that the Authority will take the necessary measures. The government is following these issues closely. As far as the Government Office, which includes the Ministry of Defence, is concerned, there is, of course, zero tolerance of harassment and discrimination. The working environment must be characterised by respect for the integrity of each individual employee and trust in his or her ability to take responsibility. This is evident from the Government Office's guidance for a workplace free from harassment and offensive discrimination.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-50	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Defence, for your answer. It hurts my heart to have to stand here today and have this debate, especially in view of the debate we had before on how to get more women to the Armed Forces. The call for attentionandbitihop which has been signed by 1,730 women and published on the DN Debate made me wonder if it can really be so bad. All 1,730 women who have signed up may not have been subjected to violations of various kinds, but they sign up for what it has been like. On 7 December, we met in the Defence Committee some female employees at the Swedish Armed Forces who participated in the petition, together with the HR Director, Major General Klas Eksell. We then got some more information, but I was not reassured by it. It was told that about 25 per cent of the women employed by the Swedish Armed Forces feel insecure at their workplace, and that is totally unacceptable. The positive thing is that the ÖB and the top management have taken strong action against this. But the problem is not there. As the women told us, the problem is neither at the top nor at the bottom. When young people get into the defense, they work well. But it's about level n in between. After a while there is a change out on the dressings when it should fit in. Then it will be offensive treatment and such. There was a lot in the debate article, and much of what was written was things that I would not even like to say in Parliament's Chamber. A woman wrote, "As a soldier and an officer, I can do this in retrospect when I think of the never-ending stream of sexual invites from male colleagues." Older men, married men, bosses and officers with whom I have been dependent. ..................................................... The problem many times is that you are in an addiction position to someone. It is very difficult to report someone who is your boss and who has treated an insult. The women we met told us that if you report something and there will be an investigation there may be ten to twelve different people involved in the investigation. Where, then, is the confidentiality? It's a big problem. If you report your boss or colleague, you don't want it to wander around the entire unit, you want it to be confidential. This is something the Armed Forces should look at. As the women also said, there are major areas of risk as there is a fall in confidence and there is a lack of concrete reporting. Many of these women do not report anything because you know that confidentiality disappears when so many are going to go through a case. You don't know how to handle it either. It's difficult in hierarchic organizations. I wonder if the Minister for Defence could say a little more about what he thinks about this.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-60	Madam President, I would like Violation and sexual harassment are prohibited according to the working environment regulations, and the Swedish Armed Forces' leadership has clearly indicated this. Zero tolerance should prevail in this area. There must be systematic work environment management at workplaces. Everyone in a workplace must know what applies there. When there are shortcomings of the kind mentioned here, it must be taken seriously throughout the organisation. It is ultimately a management issue to drive the development in the way that the valuation basis penetrates at the different levels that Lena Asplund points to. What has now taken place in recent times in the form of a public debate linked, among other things, to the metoo roll-call and the attention-and-biti-hop are things that have clearly marked boundaries in this context. But that is not enough in any way. Ultimately, this is a fundamental issue on which the Swedish Armed Forces must work. The Swedish Armed Forces rests on a foundation of values that is sound, but that needs to be implemented and put into the organisation in a real way. I think it is extremely important in view of what we were discussing just now. If we are to deal with recruitment issues in the long term and bring more women into the business, which I also think is necessary, this needs to be clarified. Negative things like these must be sorted out of the behavioral pattern and out of the organization. I believe that workplaces that are mixed in terms of gender usually become healthier and better. That is why the recruitment of women is extremely important here. A bit of progress has been made, but there is much more to be done. Confidentiality issues were mentioned. When they are a problem, it is really directly linked to professionalism to be able to handle such matters. If professionalism does not work, it is also a management issue and something that needs to be addressed within the organisation. In many areas of society there are things that need to be addressed. This applies to the Swedish Armed Forces as well as the public sector and the business community as a whole. I believe, however, that we have reached a point where a great deal will happen in terms of change in the coming years on this side. After all, the debate we are currently having is linked to the previous interpellation debate. The fundamentals of values are further clarified on this particular issue. It is really about all employees in an organization being able to feel respect and security at work, and you should be able to go to work without having to think about something of a negative and offensive kind to happen. You shouldn't have to get into such situations. This is a responsibility for the organisation and at the different levels of management. However, we cannot have elements like these in the future if we are to implement the recruitment ambitions that we have.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-69	Madam President, I would like I would like to quote the following: are we prepared to go to the Swedish Armed Forces because we are prepared to defend Sweden and the right to live as we please, but often our worst opponents have been in our own organisation. ..................................................... It's pretty nasty to read something like this, because these women are willing to sacrifice their lives for the sake of our freedom and for Sweden to be the safe country that we think it is. When we have met the women in this network, they also tell us that there are female networks within the Swedish Armed Forces. But no one wants or has wanted to be involved, for the female networks have been viewed in a devalued way. When the Swedish Armed Forces have done their employee surveys, it has been seen that quite a few have been subjected to offensive discrimination. Among these cases are also men. We must not forget the men in the matter, because it is not just women who are being violated. Everyone may be, but violations can be expressed in different ways. Since I wrote my interpellation and after I wrote an article on the subject, women have been in touch with me. There's one thing I'm worried about. Some people who have heard from them work or have worked in the minister's own department. I have promised them not to reveal what they have said to me, because it could reveal who they are. What I have been told raises more questions than it answers, and this makes me really worried. I wonder how the Minister for Defence intends to deal with the problems in his own department, because the problems are there and cannot be denied. This goes all the way. We have seen that it exists in political parties, even everywhere in society. What has recently come up in connection with the metoo roll call has made me wonder. Have we had such an unhealthy culture in Sweden? As a woman, I am appalled that so many women have been violated.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-77	Madam President, I would like With regard to the Government Office, there are clear guidelines for this in the Government Office's guidance for a workplace free from harassment and abusive discrimination. This is the assessment basis that applies to how the working environment should be designed. Therefore, there is zero tolerance of harassment and abusive treatment. When matters such as these arise, they should be dealt with through the Human Resources Department and the Human Resources Manager of the Ministry, and the same applies to other departments within the Government Office. In March, we started a development work aimed at what we call an inclusive working environment with equal treatment for men and women. Within this there are knowledge-raising seminars as well as training of managers and employees. This work must be seen as preventive, and it must be carried out continuously in order to influence attitudes and change values that may be distorted. We need to take initiatives in various areas of society in relation to these things. We took the initiative in March when we started this development work within the department. At our workplace, the same work environment regulations apply as at all other workplaces. We must make a clear mark against events such as these. However, I cannot comment on any individual cases in this context and do not intend to do so. As I explained, we have taken a horizontal step. We will of course continue to work on this in the same way as we will continue to work on the issues within the Swedish Armed Forces as a whole. We need to change attitudes and focus on these issues. This is something that has been going on for many years and many decades. These attitudes and behaviours need to be progressively phased out of all activities.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-83	Madam President, I would like I understand that the Minister for Defence cannot comment on any individual matters, because I cannot even tell you what this is about despite the fact that I have had stories brought to me. This is sensitive because it's personal. As we said earlier, it's a lot about confidentiality. I hope that the women – within both the Swedish Armed Forces and the Government Office – who have been violated and who listen to this debate can continue to report their possible managers or subordinates in order to have an investigation conducted with confidentiality. This must be done in a dignified and good way to deal with the problems. As I said before, it is not sustainable if ten to twelve people are involved in an investigation, as it has been within the Swedish Armed Forces. Then the confidentiality disappears completely, and then, as I said, nobody wants to report it. It is for this reason that the women who have been in contact with me have been worried. For example, if it is your superior who has subjected you to a violation, you may be afraid of losing your position or of how you can work together in the future. It is good that the Minister for Defence is aware of this. I trust and hope that the Minister for Defence will deal with this properly in his own department and by ensuring that the Armed Forces generally address the problems. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish the Secretary of Defense a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. I hope he can get some time off and rest with his family.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-88	Madam President, I would like I would just like to point out once again that in March we initiated the work environment that involves an inclusive working environment with equal treatment for men and women. It is about a knowledge-raising business with the training of managers and employees to get to grips with this problem. Lena Asplund talks about confidentiality, and it is very important. I repeat what I said earlier: it is intimately linked to professionalism. If professionalism does not work, there are shortcomings in leadership and management. It will then also be an issue that needs to be resolved in different ways. All of this is to be treated in a serious way. We'll try to do what we can in our department. I am also convinced that the Swedish Armed Forces' leadership has a very firm idea of how this should be handled within the Swedish Armed Forces; the values that should prevail will also prevail in the future. That's how we have to see it, isn't it? I believe that we are fundamentally in agreement on this issue as well. If there are no differences of opinion, they should not be cultivated. We'll have to keep working and try to solve the various problems that exist. I thank you for these two important debates and wish Lena Asplund a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-93	Madam President, I would like Tobias Billström has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the police can keep staffing in external service at a safe distance from the minimum level in our areas of crime. It is a priority for the government that police work in our vulnerable areas should be strengthened and that more police officers should be able to fight crime and increase security there. In order to give the Police Authority the opportunity to increase the number of employees, the government recently announced a historic initiative that will bring powerful resource reinforcements to the agency. The internal allocation of resources is a matter for the Police Authority, but the Agency has already given priority to the affected areas in the internal allocation of funds. All priority areas have been strengthened. The government has already given the Police Authority the opportunity to increase the number of places in current police training and also plans for police training at two additional universities. It's starting to produce results. This year, almost twice as many students have been admitted to police training compared to the average over the last six years. Of course, the government also wants those who are already employed in the Police Authority to remain. Therefore, the government has commissioned the agency to create the conditions for improvement of the working environment and review career paths. The Head of the National Police has stressed that the problems in vulnerable areas are not just a police matter. I agree. Broad and long-term action by society as a whole is needed to combat crime in these areas. The government has therefore presented several measures to contribute to this, including a long-term reform programme to strengthen vulnerable areas and reduce segregation in the country. The programme contains measures in a number of areas, such as law enforcement. The Government has also presented a national crime prevention programme, Together against crime, which emphasises the importance of more actors than the judiciary engaging in crime prevention to make it effective. The national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women also highlights the prevention of violence.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-98	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs for their answer. Madam President, I would like We meet daily with headlines describing the crisis in the Swedish police and the consequences of the crisis. The agency is challenged by a far greater criminality that takes place in everything from drug trafficking and theft to settlements and murders and now also the terrible group rapes that take place in my home town of Malmö, for example. At the same time, the government's scarce allocation of resources and lack of governance during ongoing reorganisation have led to staff shortages and declining investigation results. I have read the stories from my own neighborhood with great concern, the Government. I have several times met with the police management in Malmö, for example, and talked to them about these issues. I've heard about the transfer of police officers from outside to internal service to relieve the investigation. In a recent interview, the Deputy District Police Commissioner in Malmö stated that the minimum limit for police officers in external service is beginning to be reached – the minimum limit, the Government. Instead, when the police should mobilise against crime and the serious violence in our areas of crime, they are forced to retreat with a staffing close to the minimum level. The government's inaction and the police's lack of resources naturally lead to a negative spiral. Investigations are piled up. Officers need to be taken out of external service to graze these piles. With fewer police officers in external service, the risk of the criminal being caught is reduced. Crime is becoming more profitable, and we have a society that is becoming more and more insecure. In order to reverse this trend, we need to make a strong effort. The government, however, invests too little and too late. It is therefore strange when we hear in this Chamber debate how Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson sounds as if the matter had already been resolved – the police have been given more resources, and vulnerable areas are prioritised by the authority! However, the Minister's picture is simply not in line with the reality that faces many of us who are participating in the debate and who are, above all, living in this country. Therefore, I must ask the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs again: how will the negative spiral that the government has put Swedish police into being broken?
i-1d5433a38697af7b-103	Madam President, I would like Skåne is also my home area. I visited the Malmö police last autumn to see how they worked with the situation they had during the year, especially with regard to the shootings. These were made, as you know, to a special event at the beginning of the year. Resources were gathered from the whole of South Sweden to gather power in Malmö and overcome this type of organized crime. I can say that I think the Malmö police have done a very professional job during the year. If organised crime is to be broken, we must ensure that the most active individuals are removed from the streets and, at the same time, reduce recruitment to the criminal gangs. This is what the whole strategy is all about. As I said, we have gathered strength in Malmö, and we now see the results of this, with over 80 people in custody during this period. You've been on the most criminal. I think the number of people in custody is now the highest in many years. It is important to continue along this path and continue to push these investigations forward with vigour. This also applies to what Tobias Billström mentioned in connection with the investigations into recent rapes. I am sure that these investigations will also be pursued with the professionalism and power of the Swedish police, not least in Malmö. I have great confidence in their way of doing their job. On the basis of rather difficult conditions, they do a good job, I would say. Region South and the Police Department deliver more now than they did just a few years ago. For example, the number of open cases in the investigation has now fallen by nearly 1,300. So the queues have been grazed. That's a 4% reduction. The same is true of the number of investigations reported to prosecutors. Overall in the country, the number of investigations reported to prosecutors by the Political Authority is now increasing for the first time since 2009. In Region Skåne alone, more than 2,000 more investigations have been carried out this year compared to last year. That's an increase of 9%. The minimum level of staffing in external service has never been reduced. It has been on the way to such a situation, but it has not been below the minimum level of staffing. More investigations have been carried out without getting too close to what is least needed in external service. Madam President, I would like There are no shortcuts in this. If we are to be able to pull up the roots of organised crime, we need increased resources and staffing. We have said from the government that we need to have 10 000 more employees in the Police Office until 2024. We are now making this resource available. The 2 billion we are going out with from next year is the biggest increase from one year to another ever in terms of the police, at least during the time I can see: the last 20 years. We've doubled the admissions to police training. The police training we are about to start in Malmö will soon also be announced. As of 1 January, we will tighten the penalties for the serious weapons offences, which will increase the possibilities of arrest. There are no shortcuts. We must be prepared to make resources available, and we are now doing so on the part of the government, by increasing resources to the police so much.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-112	Madam President, I would like Malmö is a showcase for the government's failed law enforcement policy. You really have to say that. It is interesting that the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs says that the shootings were events that occurred at the beginning of the year. This is a question that has many years on its back. It is something that has accelerated during this term of office. I fully agree that the Malmö police have made fantastic efforts, not least given the resources made available to them. That is not what is at issue in the debate. We are talking about the results and the conditions they have been given. The lack of police officers makes it difficult for the agency to be able to cope with both the investigations and the crime prevention work, which are two things that are connected. I share the view that there are no easy ways forward. But those things should focus on much more on the part of the government. Instead, when the police should be mobilised against crime and the serious violence in our areas of crime, it is the retreat we are talking about with a staffing close to the minimum level. I can refer to another article in Sydsvenskan. Since the Minister has a background from Skåne, I assume that he reads it regularly. There it is written that the police take a break in the fight against Malmö's gang criminals when the focus police and other crime perpetrators are called into desk work. The article states that criminals will have a long-awaited breathing space in the coming months. Is this a successful government policy? Does the Minister of Justice and Home Affairs really mean that now that we are moving towards the election year and it is time to sum up the efforts these years should be satisfied with the fact expressed in the article? Madam President, I would like Now we have been able to hear how Morgan Johansson has talked about that with government policy we get more police. So it should have led to this. Some things are good to remember. Recently, Svenska Dagbladet reported that the government has allowed the number of police officers to fall to 19 273, to be exact. Although there are more people living in Sweden every year, we have far fewer police officers today than we had during the reign of the Alliance. Only so far this year, 815 police officers have left the agency, more than half of which is for a reason other than retirement, which is usually the argument that is highlighted. On the other hand, the target of at least 20,000 police officers has been abandoned by the government. It is not included in the action plans we can take note of. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: will we see the number of police officers falling even below 19 000 before we see any reversal of developments?
i-1d5433a38697af7b-119	Madam President, I would like The picture is rather that we have mobilized in Malmö and in the vulnerable areas. All the particularly vulnerable areas we are talking about have received police reinforcement. We pulled together police resources just to Malmö due to the shootings. These investigations have produced results. There are now over 80 people in custody, and I can see how the investigations are being carried out forcefully. Tobias Billström refers to an article. I think Tobias Billström should also read the comment on it by the police chief in Malmö. He believes that a false picture is given of how the police will work during Christmas holidays. You shouldn't always believe what's in newspapers and at least not how the angles turn out. Maybe he should talk to the chief of police in Malmö about how his picture is in that part. I do when I run into that kind of claim. There are no shortcuts. It takes two and a half years to train a cop. The situation we now have with too few police officers is essentially a situation created by the fact that far too few police training has been taken in for a long time. When Tobias Billström was in the government in 2014, you took 689 to police training. At the same time, 400 to 500 people retire each year. Everyone understands that there is far too little dimension to education. You cannot take in 689 when 400 – 500 retire at the same time, at least not if the police organization is going to grow. Now we've doubled the admissions to police training. This year we are talking about over 1,300 who attend police training. We will have to stay at that rate and probably also have to increase to perhaps up to 2 000 per year that we are taking into police training. There is a great interest among the nation's young people in becoming a police officer. I'm looking forward to it. But in order to do that, you have to be prepared to set aside resources for this. My question to Tobias Billström, who was in the previous government, is: If you wanted more police officers, why did you train so few? Why did you train only half as many as we are now training? I have more questions for Tobias Billström, now that we are also talking about economics. When we see how you resourced the police during your eight years, we see that you should have gone forward with far greater resources. You reduced the tax by 140 billion, but you increased the funds to the police by only 5 billion. We'll do it another way. We give the police priority over such tax cuts, and we do so with our own money. We don't have to borrow money from the police or any other public service. Again, there are no shortcuts. We must be prepared to give priority to public resources. The increase we are now making with 2 billion for next year, 2.3 billion the following year and 2.8 billion the following year is the biggest investment that has been made on Swedish police from any government regardless of party color in the last 20 years. It would still be good to hear Tobias Billström reason a little bit about it. If you wanted to increase the number of police officers, why did you train so few? Why were you so stingy with the resources you were? Why didn't you build up for an expansion of the police force that we so badly need?
i-1d5433a38697af7b-129	Madam President, I would like I have an excellent relationship with the Commissioner for Police in Malmö, Stefan Sintéus. I even think that I, as a Member of Parliament from Malmö, visited him on a number of occasions more often than the government's representatives did. The Minister for Justice and Home Affairs has a very strange picture of how the people of Malmö view the issues. I don't think the picture we have is the same. I would recommend the Minister of Justice and Home Affairs to visit the residents of some of the vulnerable areas of Malmö and ask whether they believe that the glossy picture painted by the government's policy is consistent with how they experience police presence, the expansion of serious crime and the consequences for security in the areas. Finally, it is also about how the imageisation of Malmö has become through the failed police policy. It is clear that the government has been taken to bed when it comes to the challenges facing the Swedish police. As far as the Moderates are concerned, we have been very clear both in our alternative budget and in other respects that far more police officers are needed than we have today. It is also important that the police can be present in both vulnerable areas and sparsely populated parts of the country. Unfortunately, in this debate today, the Minister has not managed to convince me that he will take sufficient measures to ensure that the police can keep staffing in external service at a safe distance from the minimum level in our areas of crime. On the contrary, we see how important crime prevention efforts are being dismantled in favour of investigations into crimes already committed. The really big question did not concern the Minister of Justice and Home Affairs: will it be possible to get the police trained to remain in office, or will they leave the profession as we have seen in recent years? That is the big question. When we are faced with all these reports about how the police are forced to retreat in order to cope with the investigation work: Does the Minister think that the measures he has taken have been sufficient?
i-1d5433a38697af7b-134	Madam President, I would like As far as measures are concerned, I would like to say that we have done more in our three years than you did in your eight. Let's talk about scales of punishment. This applies, for example, to penalties against serious organised crime. We have raised almost all the penalties for the serious violent crimes: aggravated assault, gross blackmail, aggravated robbery and gross illegal threat. We've raised the penalties for the most serious drug crimes. We now have, as of 1 January, another penalty for the serious weapons crimes. None of this happened under the bourgeois government. We have also announced historically large increases in police resources, in fact more than the Police Authority itself requested. This has been done, among other things, in view of the fact that we believe that the Police Authority must extend its costume further. We have doubled the number of places in police training, but of course we also have to work to ensure that those in the profession also stay. That is why we have given the Police Authority a special mandate to review working conditions, career paths and other things for the police. In addition, we must reinstate some of the police who have left the profession, and there is special work to be done for this too. But as I said, there are no shortcuts. One must also be prepared to set aside resources, and that is probably the concern of Tobias Billström. There are certain things, Madam President, that bourgeois governments never do. They never make it through public finances, they never make it through jobs, and they can't start any new police training. Those who do are us. Now we do it in Malmö, and we will also do it in West Sweden. We are now also ensuring that the police are resourced in a way that has never been seen before. Again, during your reign, you reduced the tax by 140 billion, but added only 5 billion more to the police. When the Moderates are allowed to choose, Madam President, between reduced tax and police spending, they always choose reduced tax.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-139	Madam President, I would like Tobias Billström has asked me whether I intend to propose legislation on zone bans and search zones. The Swedish police already have the right to announce that a person may not be present in a certain place when he or she disturbs public order. The Swedish police also have possibilities for body visas without connection to concrete crime suspicions. The fact that zone bans or search zones would be effective tools is not clear. The models are not evaluated, but experience with similar approaches in other countries has shown low accuracy, and they have also been met with widespread criticism. The government prioritises the fight against serious and organised crime. During our term of office, we have tightened up more than 30 criminal law provisions related to organised crime, including serious violent and arms crimes. The penalty for serious gun crimes will be raised on 1 January. As a result of these sanctions, people arrested with sharp-charged weapons will, in principle, always be arrested immediately pending trial. The government has also given 12 authorities an even greater opportunity to target their common forces against organised crime, with a particular focus on vulnerable areas. As regards methods against the illegal use of weapons, the Police Authority has the task of developing and disseminating effective working methods to combat them. In spring, the agency will report its results.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-143	Madam President, I would like This debate is, of course, linked to the previous interpellation debate. The security of our country is challenged by criminals who move forward their positions, not least in cities such as Malmö but also around the country. The number of areas affected by crime where criminal networks have a major negative impact on the local community is increasing. The media report, as we know, shootings with a regularity that is frightening. They're lethal shootings and grenades blasted in residential areas. This gross violence must be met with full force on the part of society, both in the form of more police officers and in the form of better tools for the police in their work. The Moderates have proposed the introduction of zone bans. What does a zone ban mean? This means that the police are given the opportunity to prohibit a person who has shown a particularly insecure behaviour from staying in a particular place, such as a square or a shopping mall. Such legislation exists in Denmark. It shall be possible to issue the zone ban for a specified period of no more than three months. It shall be renewable for a further period not exceeding three months thereafter. The Minister for Justice and Home Affairs now says in his reply here today, for which I thank him, that the Swedish police already have the right to state today that a person may not be in a certain place when he or she is disturbing public order. It is true that, under the Police Act, a policeman already has a great deal of powers to restrict the freedom of movement of citizens in various situations. For example, Section 13 of the Police Act allows a police officer, in a specific situation, to reject or remove someone from a particular area or space and also temporarily take care of it because the person disturbs or poses a danger or to prevent crime. Then the interesting question that the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs does not answer in the answer he has just read out arises. Does he believe that this provision of the Police Act can be used so that a person who has shown insecure behaviour can be prohibited from staying in a particular place for a period of up to three months? Or should the Minister's speech be interpreted as saying that the Minister does not think that such an opportunity is needed? I think that would be interesting to find out.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-147	Madam President, I would like There is no more important task at the moment in criminal policy than to uproot organised crime with its roots. Part of this strategy is about getting some of the most crime-active individuals off the streets. Then it's about law enforcement. As I explained earlier, during this parliamentary term we have carried out a large number of penalties, much more than in the eight years that Tobias Billström spent in the government, I would say. I think we've done more in these three years than you did in eight years on the criminal side. To be honest, I actually believe that no government has tightened the penalties to a greater extent than we have now. I listed some of the penalties in the past, particularly in the case of serious violent crimes: gross blackmail, gross illegal threats, aggravated assault and a number of other serious violent crimes. We have tightened the penalties for the most serious drug offences, and now, from 1 January, we are also tightening the penalties for the serious weapons offences. That is one thing that we should have done much earlier, for example already in 2009 when we saw a further increase in the shootings. But the then government chose not to do so on this occasion. Let's do it from January 1st. This also means an automatic arrest for those who are found with weapons in the city. I believe that this will have an immediate effect on the situation in some areas where we have had problems with weapons offences. It is not only a question of increased arrest, but also of the possibility of secret coercive measures, that is to say, of being able to go in with telephone tapping or other forms of surveillance in order to detect the crimes and roll up the organised criminal gangs on time. In addition, we will move further on the victim's side. We are now preparing proposals for specific youth sanctions, which include the possibility of house arrest. It is therefore simply a question of not leaving the home and will be monitored via a anklet if you have been guilty of certain crimes and are in some old age. We will see to it that a change is made so that life sentence is the normal punishment for murder. That is not the case today, so it is another tightening up. We will also come forward with rules which mean that it is not self-evident that you can come out after two thirds of the time. A specific assessment should be made in these cases as to whether or not one has, for example, agreed to rehabilitation measures. It is about getting the most criminals and the most criminals off the streets; it is extremely important. As we have been into before, they work very actively with this, not my st in Malmö. There's over 80 people in custody right now. Then I think you need to do additional things about the toolbox. Camera surveillance is one of those things. Right now, more cameras are up than ever before. This is something that they have worked very actively with during our period, including in Malmö around Sevedplan. This is an issue that has been disputed in the past. On the issue of police tools, I would say that we have developed these tools more during this period than anyone has ever done before. In addition, we will move forward with other elements in the area of secret coercive measures. At the same time, it is important to ensure that when developing the police toolbox you really should do it with tools that you think work and not just give something that works as a symbol. I have noted that the proposals made by the Moderates are not evaluated in Denmark, where these methods exist. We have looked a lot to see if there is anything to indicate that this has had a real effect. But there are no such results, Madam President.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-155	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Justice and Home Affairs spent most of his speech avoiding answering the question I had asked. It only came up in the last few seconds. On the other hand, there was much talk about what the government boasts of having done. What I find interesting is what the interpellation is about. In response to the interpellation, Morgan Johansson argued that it is not clear that zone bans or search zones would be effective tools, and now he comes back to this and says that the methods are not evaluated. But only in September this year the Minister of Justice and Home Affairs opened up in the media to introduce search zones, where the police can search people even though there is no suspicion of crime. And one should be aware that the police have expressed their interest in both zone bans and search zones. My question – the one who started this whole discussion and the one about which the interpellation debate is about – is: should we interpret today's message in this House as closing the door to give the police these tools in the fight against gang crime and shootings? Otherwise, I thought we agreed that it was important to combat this.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-158	Madam President, I would like It is true that I answered a question in the media earlier last autumn. I was asked about both zone bans and search zones. I said: Yes, I am happy to look at the experience of Denmark, for example, to see if there is anything to suggest that this has had any effect. That was my answer at the time. During the autumn we have gone through this to see: Is there any indication that this would mean added value in relation to what the Swedish police already have powers today? As has already been noted, there are already opportunities to reject people who disrupt the order. You can already do the kind of searches that I think Tobias Billström is looking for today. When you suspect that there may be weapons, for example, you can do that kind of search. The question then is: Is it just a symbol that Tobias Billström wants to talk about, or is this something that could actually add value to the police? My conclusion is probably that today we have the powers that we need to have. Instead, I prefer to work with other and more effective tools. In my last post, I lined up some of them. I am thinking, for example, of specific youth sanctions and of tightening up the scale of penalties for a wide range of crimes. We are now moving forward with camera surveillance to an increased extent. We will also present a legislative proposal to Parliament in the spring to further expand the possibilities. But I think it is important that we do not, so to speak, snow into things that may not have the effect that we hope for, things that are more about symbols than about real, real and effective politics.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-163	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is important to look at the added value. I think we can agree on the significance of this. But then it is important to emphasise that the police's views are important to us Moderates – it is about the practitioners of the professional police profession. The police have expressed interest in both zone bans and search zones. The Police Authority today estimates that there are about 200 criminal networks and about 5 000 criminal actors in the areas that are exposed to serious crime around our country. The number of confirmed fatal shootings has increased since 2014. By November 2017, there must have been as many as 279 confirmed shootings with 38 deaths in our country. Zone bans and search zones could lead to more criminals being locked up while fewer weapons are circulating illegally on our streets. But I notice here in the debate that the Minister is hesitant because it is not clear that zone bans or search zones would be effective tools. Let me conclude with a new question: is the Minister of Justice and Home Affairs prepared to set up an investigation that is unconditionally looking at the possibility of giving the police access to the tools they are apparently asking for themselves, such as zone bans or search zones? I think it would be interesting to hear this before we conclude this interpellation debate.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-167	Madam President, I would like I think I'd rather work with tools that have actually proven to be effective than with what has not even been evaluated yet. As I said, no one has been able to show that the search zones or zone bans have had any real effect. However, we have seen a very low level of accuracy. There are different variants. A variant is applied in New York – that's what you call a stop-and-healthy. I visited New York a couple of years ago to see how they had worked there. They do not have a random visit there either, but they must have a degree of suspicion, I would say, just as we have in Sweden. But they had nevertheless expanded this visitation strategy very strongly in the early 90s. It worked very well in the beginning, but eventually it turned over. It could even be that the same person was stopped and searched several times a day. In the end, it got out of hand so much that it became a very strong counter-reaction to the police's way of working. This is why such strategies have been reduced. When new tools are being developed for the police, I believe that they must really work and add value. As I said, the police already have the opportunity to do searches under special conditions, and so do they. It is also possible to reject people if they disrupt order. Instead, let us work with the special youth sanctions, with camera surveillance and with ensuring that the penalties for the serious weapons crimes are tightened, as we are doing now from 1 January! I think that is much more effective.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-171	Madam President, I would like Tobias Billström has asked me what measures I intend to take to reduce the number of robberies and increase the security of those who work in and run stores in Sweden. Sweden should be a safe country to live in. It is therefore unacceptable for shop owners and their employees to be concerned about the risk of being exposed to crime. The Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish Commerce Federation have had a working collaboration for several years, and the last meeting was held during October 2017. The cooperation aims, among other things, to increase the ability to detect and act against serial crime at an early stage. Within the framework of cooperation, crime prevention activities and other measures that the police have taken or plan to take are also discussed. In order to improve the conditions for the police, the government has among other things proposed historically large additions of resources to the Police Authority for the next three years. Based on the new budgetary framework and the needs of operations, it is the Police Authority that decides how resources are to be allocated internally. The Government has previously given the Police Authority the opportunity to increase the number of places in current police training and also plans for police training at two additional universities. It's starting to produce results. This year, almost twice as many students have been admitted to police training compared to the average for the last six years. The Government has also commissioned the Police Authority to create the conditions for further improvements in the working environment and more career paths for police employees. However, it is not only the political authority's responsibility to reduce the risk of crime, but the responsibility is shared by several. In this, crime prevention is an important success factor in creating greater security. The Government's crime prevention programme, Together against crime, is aimed at a broad target group, which is a prerequisite for successful crime prevention work at the local level. Some stores also take many measures to prevent crime and reduce the risk of being subjected to robbery or theft, for example through safe storage of daycrushes and theft-seeking electronics. That, of course, is good. If, however, there is a robbery or robbery attempt, these investigations are prioritised in the local police area.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-179	Madam President, I would like According to the Swedish Commerce Federation, the number of armed robberies against electronics chains is increasing. Above all, it is mobile phones and laptops that attract, as they are easy to sell on. Most of them are also sold abroad. When the justice system in Sweden is perceived as retreating, it becomes increasingly appealing for those who are criminals to make a living through crime. It is therefore at hand to assume that there is a direct link between the inaction shown by the government in this policy area and the lack of police resources and the increasing number of robberies in Sweden. As crimes against traders become more common, the insecurity of those who work also increases. At the same time, we can read in the newspaper how traders have to wait for up to ten hours at the police when they report that someone has entered the store and broken up the store's safe. In his response to me today, Morgan Johansson talks about shops taking their own measures to protect themselves. That is exactly what will be the solution when the state fails one of its most central tasks, namely to offer citizens security. When the police are no longer able to maintain law and order, stores are forced either to close the business or to invest in their own expensive security solutions. This, of course, creates consequences: on the one hand, it can be a disaster for the individual trader who loses his livelihood; on the other hand, it is detrimental to our economy that shops have to close down; on the other hand, it is a deterioration of services to the citizens, who can no longer buy the goods they want. Against this background, I wonder whether the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs realises that security is becoming more and more of a class issue, because if you look at the geographical outcome, you can see that it is not all the areas that are characterised by this problem but, above all, some.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-185	Madam President, I would like Tobias Billström said we're seeing an increased number of store robberies. Actually, that's not true. In the statistics available since 2000, we see that approximately 800 store robberies per year are carried out. We had a peak of almost 1,200 store robberies, and that peak occurred in 2009. What did Tobias Billström do? He was in the Justice Department. Did he run his legs off after action? No, he didn't. He reacted as far as I can tell. This does not mean that this is a small or decreasing problem. Nevertheless, we must tackle the problem, make sure to increase security and deal with both the robberies and the other thefts carried out in shops. Now Tobias Billström had in a sense a great bad luck, because last week I met with the Swedish Trade Union and the Association of Trade Employees and discussed, among other things, what measures could be taken. We went through a wide range of measures, and such a measure is faster prosecution. Today, it may take more than 20 weeks from reporting a theft in a store to prosecuting it. We are now carrying out a trial project in northern Stockholm, including in Täby and Rinkeby, where we have made a change of rules that allows us to reduce the prosecution time from today's 22 weeks to 2 to 6 weeks for this. I think it's very important to get a quick feedback on the thefts. Now we are talking, above all, about the petty thefts. Shop robbery is, of course, a grosser crime, and we will also have to deal with it in special order. But a faster prosecution for these thefts, I think, is incredibly important. We also go to the serious weapons crimes. In between 30 and 40 percent of all store robberies there are firearms. From 1 January, we will have a new legislation that will tighten the penalties for the serious weapons offences. We should have done that a long time ago, I would say, but now we are doing it from 1 January. We get automatic arrest of the person who is found with weapons in the city, and we also get opportunities for secret coercive measures so that you can intercept those suspected of this type of crime. It's part of it. This summer we also raised the minimum penalty for the heavy robbery from four to five years. In addition to this, we also need to make a special package of measures against international theft leagues. We know that they are very active especially when it comes to burglaries in different places, for example in villas or summer cottages. It can also be about systematic shoplifting, i.e. you go in and try to steal as much as possible in as short a time as possible, and then you take the stolen goods to the countries we are talking about. At the last meeting I attended in the EU context, I met representatives of Lithuania and Romania, two countries from which a lot of theft leagues operate. We are now on our way to developing police cooperation with Romania. They are prepared to go in and deploy resources and personnel to Sweden. With Lithuania, we have a discussion about those we take for crimes here in Sweden who are linked to these international theft leagues serving their sentences at home in Lithuania instead of in Sweden. That's all I think is an important signal. In addition, shortly after the end of the year, we will set up a special investigation to develop measures against systematic theft. I will come back to that because there will be a number of additional measures in this package.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-196	Madam President, I would like As far as statistics are concerned, it is the Minister of Justice and Home Affairs who is wrong. It surprises me a little, because he himself said he had had a meeting with the Swedish Commerce Federation and because I base my assumption on what the Swedish Commerce Federation has said about the number of armed robberies against electronics chains increasing. As regards the number of robberys, the Minister, they also increased in both 2015 and 2016, but the Minister may also question that figure. The Swedish Parliament has noted that attempts at a normal level of heeling are not criminalised today and announced to the government in 2015 that a normal level of heeling should be criminalised at the experimental stage. Since the profitability of property crimes is based on the fact that what has been stolen is sold on, one might think that it should be a priority for the government to remedy this. But time passes. We're almost done with this term of office. Next year there will be elections, and the government has not yet come back with a proposal to Parliament in this part. In fact, I asked the Prime Minister – the head of the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs – a question about the burglary, although we should not call it the operation. Moreover, the Prime Minister used the term. the criminals' business plan, which not only devalues the term, but perhaps says something about how the government views these issues.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-202	Madam President, I would like Häleri is criminalized. Häleri is a crime. But, of course, we will look at the announcement and see if there is anything else that needs to be done. Tobias Billström said the store robbery had increased. I've got the numbers right here. He can get the statistics directly from Brå. The store robberies are located about 800 years old in 2016. We had a peak in 2009 of 1,200 cases, and in the forecast we make for 2017, shop robberies actually look to decrease, which also applies to other offenses. As I said, this does not mean that the problem is getting smaller. I just want to say that you still have to understand what you're talking about. The statistics on this peak in 2009, and then the then government, which included Tobias Billström, did nothing to reverse the trend. Then what do we do? That's exactly what I was talking about before: it's about faster prosecution. It is a matter of ensuring that we have quick feedback, especially on theft in stores, so that we get the time down from, for example, having tried to steal from a store to being prosecuted from today's maybe 22 weeks to 2 to 6 weeks. This experiment will start in January and February. It's about tightening up the penalties for the serious weapons crimes. If 30 to 40% of all store robberies are carried out with weapons, we must also move much harder towards the weapons, and we are now doing so with a penalty squeeze from 1 January. We have already tightened the penalty for the heavy robberies from four to five years, so when Tobias Billström says that we have not yet done anything, he has forgotten all this. We also go to international theft leagues. We have shown some of the measures we intend to take, particularly in cooperation with the countries we are talking about. Romania and Lithuania were two examples. However, we need to do even more. In the case of theft crimes, some of the perpetrators are young criminals between the ages of 18 and 20. We have just set up an investigation to review the penalties for them as well. If you are 18 years old, I think you have to be prepared to bear responsibility as the adult person you are, and that is why we have just appointed an investigator to review what you call a penalty reduction for young offenders. We will go forward with new youth sanctions in order to intervene early but also in a very clear way in relation to the perpetrators who are entering a more hardened crime. It is simply a matter of staying at home during evenings and weekends under supervision with a anklet. There we are also on the way to making proposals. We are probably doing more in our three years to date than the bourgeois government did in its eight, and we are doing so together with the parties. As I said, I met the Association of Trade Employees and the Swedish Commerce Federation as late as last week just to talk about this.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-212	Madam President, I would like I have no problem with the statistics, but I think the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs has. He does what you usually do when you are put in a tight position, that is, he tries to talk about the whole, not the parts. I'm talking about armed robbery against electronics chains, not store crime as a whole. Therefore, I recommend the Minister of Justice and Home Affairs to go back to their statistics. He's not bluffing me in this conversation. Another problem that has been particularly highlighted by the emergence of criminal gangs in areas affected by crime, which we should be talking about more about, is the difficulty for store owners to pursue their activities, that is, the consequence of a wave of crime sweeping over an area. Shops are subject to constant crime while the police's ability to act in the areas is limited. The overall picture is frightening. It is clear that there are areas in Sweden where this is a very significant problem. What measures does the Minister intend to take for anyone who runs stores in the country so that they can rely on the ability of the judiciary, that the police come when they call after having been subjected to robbery, that the staff know trust in the community and that they know that reported crimes are being investigated? It is an important thing to discuss when we go into a Christmas time when many people depend on functioning shops to bring in livelihoods for themselves and their families and also for those of us who want to go out and stay in the Christmas trade. With these words, I wish the Government a happy Christmas and a happy New Year, and I extend my greeting to the Presidium of Presidents and Members of the Chamber.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-216	Madam President, I would like I use the official statistics. In fact, I question whether there are statistics at the level of detail that Tobias Billström is talking about, that is armed robbery aimed at electronics chains. The statistics for store robbery peaked in 2009, but since then it is around 800 per year. It is, of course, far too high, and we must ensure that this figure is reduced. We agree on that. I've reported all the actions we're taking. These include more rapid prosecution, more stringent penalties for serious gun crimes and for aggravated robbery, as well as measures against international theft gangs. In addition, we will set up a special investigation to develop measures against systematic theft. There are further measures. We are waiting a little bit there because the directives are just finished, and we hope to be able to present them soon after the New Year. We are reviewing the penalty rebate for young people and new youth sanctions. I would also like to point out that there is often good crime prevention cooperation locally between the police and individual shops. I visited only a few weeks ago the Södermalm Police Department. I got to take a look at how they work with the shops in that neighborhood. I met with shopkeepers who said that after they started working more systematically and collaborated with the police, the loss from the stores had decreased sharply. They were pleased with this. We are talking here about Södermalm, where there are a lot of problems in the surrounding area around Medborgarplatsen and Björn's garden and so on. However, as a result of close cooperation with the police, this has been achieved. We should not forget that either. Of course, I also wish Tobias Billström a really good Christmas and a well-deserved rest.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-221	Madam President, I would like Lars-Arne Staxäng has asked me whether I intend to take any initiatives to strengthen witness protection in Sweden. It is of central importance for the administration of justice that parties and witnesses can freely and truthfully leave their stories without feeling threatened or influenced by other persons. The police authority has the primary responsibility for protecting threatened persons but cooperates in this work also with other authorities, municipal actors and a number of organisations. Personal security activities are located in all police areas, and each security situation is assessed individually. Measures that can be taken include, for example, counselling, security packages with an emergency telephone, security, sheltered housing and extremely new identity. The Police Authority has special personal security programs. The programme includes, inter alia, witnesses who participate or have participated in a preliminary investigation or trial involving serious or organised crime. The measures offered to persons included in the programme are very comprehensive and can ultimately mean that the person is given a completely new identity and is, in principle, forced to do so. Against this background, it is not considered appropriate to extend this particular type of witness protection programme to other types of crime. As I mentioned in a previous question answer to Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng, the government has taken several steps to strengthen witness protection. The Government has, among other things, tightened the regulation for abuse of justice and commissioned the Victims' Agency and the National Court of Justice to report back to the Government what measures the authorities have taken to provide witnesses with further information on various forms of witness support. Among other things, it is proposed that the Court of Justice and the courts take greater responsibility for developing and disseminating the central information on the possibilities of access to witness support. The Swedish Agency for Victims has also been commissioned, in consultation with the Swedish Court of Justice and Victim Support Finland, to develop a web-based basic education for new witness support. The assignment must be presented by 30 April 2019. As also mentioned in the QA, a special investigator was commissioned in December 2015 to review the rules on court order and security in order to improve the conditions for witnesses and plaintiffs to have the courage to submit their information to the courts. The report "Strengthening the order and security of the courts", which has been referred, makes a number of proposals aimed at creating greater security for parties and witnesses. The proposals are currently being prepared in the Government Office. On 5 December 2017, the report "Early Hearings – New Rules of Evidence in Criminal Matters" was also submitted. The report contains proposals for new rules of evidence in criminal matters which are considered to reduce the risk of pressure on and threats to interrogators. The report will now be submitted for a referral. The Government has also commissioned the Crime Prevention Council (Brå) on 13 December 2017 to study the phenomenon of culture of silence and the crime of abuse in legal matters. Brå will highlight the mechanisms behind the emergence and maintenance of culture of silence in, for example, socially vulnerable areas and organised crime, as well as in relation and honour violence. Brå will also, based on national and international knowledge, make suggestions on how to counteract culture of silence and abuse of justice. The assignment shall be reported no later than 1 October 2019. The government has therefore taken a number of measures to strengthen support and protection for witnesses and will continue to follow the development of this very important issue of the rule of law in order to take further action if necessary.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-228	Madam President, I would like First of all, thank you for your answer. We fully agree here that working witness systems are one of the most important issues in our legal system, just as the Government was concerned. Therefore, it is good that the government initiated some investigations, some of them as late as December this year, 2017. However, the problem is that several of the investigations are not ready for legislative decisions until 2019 at the earliest. Moreover, the heavy battery of measures that society can put in place for witness protection, as the Government mentioned earlier, is actually limited to serious organised crime in practice because it brings with it so much disadvantage to change lives. It's not something you do in half an hour. Unfortunately, the problem is that these pressures are increasing even among so-called everyday crimes, that is, theft, vandalism and so on. It is no secret that, above all, certain areas of exclusion in Sweden tend to have their own laws and regulations and that Swedish law no longer applies. There are examples of this in Gothenburg. I know that they are located in Malmö, in the Stockholm area and in many other metropolitan areas. With regard to the abuse of justice, which was raised by the Government, the situation is even more alarming. Five years ago, 22% of cases were prosecuted. Today it is 14%. According to the police, there is already a culture of silence. Are there not more things, the Government, to do in the short term to curb the problem? I am not thinking primarily of anonymous witnesses and the like, which really is a difficult balance to do, as has been done in Norway, but I am thinking of other parts where rapid action can be taken perhaps already in 2018.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-234	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the interpellation! In fact, I regard this as a matter of destiny for the rule of law in the future. If we cannot go on the organised criminals in the right way and uproot this kind of crime with its roots, there is a great risk that they believe that they can wreak havoc and thus also exert pressure, not only against witnesses but also against parts of the judiciary – against police officers, against prosecutors, against courts. To go on organised crime is therefore the most important task of criminal policy right now, because if this is allowed to continue, it will become a systemic threat. I think we are in complete agreement there. Then it's about how to do it. The biggest packages are very interventional, and I think they should be reserved for the situations where there is a real need for this. It should also be remembered that there is a stairway – everything from advice and protection packages right up to changing identity and having to move and, so to speak, disappear from the map, from threatening individuals. This should be saved for situations where it is really needed. We need more general support for victims and more witness support. That is why I attached myself to what the crime victims' shelters and the Victims' Agency do. During this period, we have greatly expanded support for the victims of crime. When it comes to men's violence against women, we have expanded the women's shelters – we have put almost SEK 100 million more per year, which is the biggest increase ever. We have made sure that, in the case of victims' shelters, they have more money than ever to move around with. The non-profit forces we speak about victims often do a fantastic job of supporting victims while going through the process. What we will do in 2018 is to further expand the plaintiffs' assistance system, especially in the case of victims of sexual offences. From 1 July 2018, we will present the large package of consent legislation and the reform of sexual crime legislation. There we also make a special effort to ensure that you receive legal aid from the day you report the crime. It's reserved for that kind of crime. I think it is incredibly important to increase the proportion of those crimes being prosecuted. There are no easy ways in this. It's pretty hard matter, but we have to go for it. We're going to go on the criminals and make sure they get off the streets, and we're going to pull together police resources. I'm incredibly frustrated and damn tired of people running around in these areas and thinking they own them. Of course, we have to put those individuals together. That's why the police have gathered together in the vulnerable areas. We have also increased the pressure on such individuals. We're also going to give support to the victims, as I said. The third part is that when we have an environment with more organised crime, it also becomes more important that there is other evidence when proving crime and going to court. Then we talk about technical evidence – i.e., that there is, for example, camera surveillance so that the crime is stuck in the picture somewhere – and secret coercive measures, i.e. that there are interception possibilities, bugging possibilities and telephone monitoring possibilities as well as data storage so that we can follow where you have connected your mobile phone and so on. In such an environment, it becomes even more important that these secret coercive measures work. We are also developing them, Madam President.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-242	Madam President, I would like I am, of course, pleased that the government has put in place investigations that can provide new and better legislation in a few years' time. The problem is that it is not enough because the matter is urgent here and now. In Malmö in the Swedish Government's own part of Skåne, the police themselves say in an interview in Ekot that district courts should be rebuilt immediately because the problem is so big. Witnesses, plaintiffs, criminals, and perhaps even hearers are mixed in a blessed mixture, giving a clear signal that Witnesses should be quite strong to resist such pressure. That's what the police say, and it's important that we correct it. Perhaps it is possible to do things quite soon, and then it should be one of the proposals you look at 2018. Another suggestion that has taken place in the debate is that we should be able to distinguish between general informers and classic testimony. If the police can get more information, you can use technical things such as camera surveillance and a lot of other things, but you still have to have basic information – what has happened, what a gang it is, which people have moved in the area and so on. It may not have to be a classic testimony, but you have to get information if you're going to be able to solve such crimes. Another suggestion is to introduce a model of anonymous testimony. However, we know that it has both advantages and disadvantages, and it challenges legal principles. But we should look at the model in Norway and perhaps also in Denmark and other states that have introduced it to some extent, at least in an investigation to look further at whether parts of this kind of thing can be used in serious crime.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-246	Madam President, I would like In fact, as a result of the discussion that has taken place in recent years, district courts are being rebuilt. There are reinforcements of the shell cover in various respects but also so that you do not have to face directly with the perpetrators. The investigation that Fredrik Wersäll submitted to me now in December, just a few weeks ago, suggests greater possibilities to give testimony directly – you do a camera recording that you can use at the trial, which could lead to a better situation for those who will give testimony and other information. The district courts are being rebuilt, as I said. Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng pointed out that I am from Skåne. In fact, the district court in Lund, my hometown, is one that is now being rebuilt. It's just one example. But it must be done gradually. There are often large investment costs linked to it, but this has to be done gradually. That's the way I think we should go. I hesitate to discuss anonymous witnesses. I see that there are major problems with the rule of law. That's why I don't want to go that way. I would rather talk about the secret coercive measures and the possibility of extending them further. When we tighten the penalties for, for example, serious weapons offences from 1 January, the police also have the possibility of secret coercive measures – telephone tapping and secret telemonitoring – for such crimes. The police can then, as it were, roll up this type of network in a different way than before. But it should be remembered that in order for you to be successful there, there must also be workable data storage. There is now a concern, namely that the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union repeals Swedish legislation on this. There are also a number of companies that do not want to help clear up serious crimes, such as Bahnhof and Tele 2. It puts a brake on law enforcement. There is a need to ensure that we get new legislation in place that is in harmony and in conformity with EU law, and we are working on that now. It is very important to be able to clear up some of these crimes. Finally, Madam President, we must continue to extend support to victims' organisations in various respects – both the professional support that plaintiffs can provide and the non-profit support provided by, for example, victim support centres and women's shelters. Things are already happening there, which I was into earlier, and also in 2018. I do not think that we fundamentally disagree about the importance of continuing this type of expansion and investment. But I want to make it clear that my view is that I have been at it from the beginning – that if we do not do this, we risk going into a situation where this type of crime eventually becomes a systemic threat. Therefore, all such strategies must always contain a very strong element of putting pressure on the criminals who are making threats and ensuring that the police have both the resources and the tools to be able to cage the most active individuals and thus remove the root of the problem itself.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-254	Madam President, I would like The problem is acute. Those who work closely with these important issues give clear signals that the judiciary is being eroded. These are, in fact, the foundations of a secure society. If this does not work and the rule of law fails to deal with these issues, there will be uncertainty that will give a terrible society, just as the Government was at its first speech. This is priority number one: that we are dealing with the gangs of criminals, especially in the vulnerable areas. Then we need more knowledge. The citizens who assist in, for example, our district courts, as well as the staff, need more knowledge on these issues. We need to tighten up the penalties for not least abuse of justice, but also for the rest. Strengthening witness protection in various ways is much needed to date, as is some of the measures that the Government has taken. They would need to be deployed earlier – the problem already exists today. We need a greater anonymity for informants. I do not mean those who are witnesses, but informants in general. In addition, we should actually investigate the issue of anonymous witnesses – not introduce it. I understand the problem, but we still have border states, including Norway, where this has worked decently. We should look at it; perhaps we can introduce certain elements. I wish the Minister Merry Christmas and Happy New Year!
i-1d5433a38697af7b-258	Madam President, I would like As far as police intelligence is concerned, my assessment is that the police receive very extensive information from the public without the public having to be witnesses. A lot of that information then forms the basis for, among other things, additional reconnaissance measures. Perhaps the issue of wiretaps or something else that needs to be done in the case of individuals is raised. I believe, however, that the regulatory framework is satisfactory with regard to the notifications received. There are no shortcuts in this. It is clear that we need to continue to increase efforts on the police. We need to add additional resources, which we do from 1 January: another SEK 2 billion to the police. We're expanding police operations. We're going to have 10,000 more police employees by 2024. We've doubled admission to police training, and we're starting new police training. These are measures that we are taking here and now. We have already increased support for victims' organisations. Victim Support Finland has more money to move with than ever before. We are doing things with regard to plaintiffs right from next year; we are expanding that support further, especially when it comes to sexual crime situations. We need increased opportunities for secret coercive measures. In some cases, it is already on 1 January, with a penalty for the serious weapons crimes. At the same time, we need to solve the data storage issue, and we need to have increased camera surveillance in some of the vulnerable areas. There are now more cameras up than ever before, but we also need to change the regulatory framework in that direction. So, of course, a lot is happening in both the short and the longer term. I would also like to end by wishing Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng a really merry Christmas and a well-deserved rest in the coming weeks!
i-DYRkJgUswRYgueiK567tcm	Madam President, I would like John Widegren has asked me whether I believe that the right to property and the freedom to conduct a business should be subject to the limitation rules and the rules on suspension in Chapter 2. the form of government, what I believe about the establishment of a Enterprise Freedom Commission and what measures I intend to take with a view to strengthening property rights and the freedom to conduct a business. I believe, like John Widegren, that it is of fundamental importance to modern society that individuals are guaranteed as far as possible freedom of trade and occupation and the protection of their property. The provisions guaranteeing individual rights and freedoms are constitutionally protected in the form of government. The ownership clause was amended in 2011 to clarify the main principle of the right to full compensation for the loss in the event of expropriation and other such disposal. There was also an addition whereby the right to compensation in the event of so-called "advisory restrictions" on health protection, environmental protection or safety is regulated by law. The new form was based on a political agreement between all the then parliamentary parties in the framework of the parliamentary assembly of the Constitution. The definition of the freedom to conduct a business and occupation, introduced in the form of government on 1 January 1995, was also the result of a broad political agreement across the bloc. In addition, in order to strengthen ownership rights, new remuneration rules were introduced in 2010 in the case of expropriation and other situations where real estate is used under coercion. The new rules led to increased remuneration. The Constitutional Committee has stated on several occasions that the provision on property protection in the form of government is well balanced. The committee has dealt with motion requests to make property protection equivalent to so-called political rights but has not been prepared to propose amendments to the restriction rules in order to strengthen property rights. I agree with those assessments and, at the same time, I would like to stress the importance of safeguarding the political agreement that was the basis for the current formulation of Chapter 2. the form of government. The same considerations apply when it comes to freedom of trade. I therefore see no reason to take measures to make changes to the existing constitutional protection.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-266	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Ownership and freedom to conduct a business are fundamental elements of a free society and also indispensable conditions for prosperity and development. They have some constitutional protection through provisions contained in Chapter 2. the form of government. We Moderates continue to support the settlement of the Fundamental Law investigation and the changes in the form of government resulting from this settlement. At the same time, however, we believe that it is important to keep the constitutional debate alive and to continue to discuss what further changes to the form of government may be justified, so that a dead hand is not over the debate on constitutional issues. Not everyone in the government form enjoys the same protection against rights-restricting legislation. For example, the protection of ownership and freedom to conduct a business is weaker than the protection of rights and freedoms such as opinions, information, meetings, demonstration and association rights. Ownership and freedom to conduct a business are not protected by the restriction rules and the rules on stay. There is much to suggest that the protection of the Constitution against restrictions on rights should be equally strong, regardless of which right or right it applies. If ownership were to be subject to the restriction rules, a restriction on the individual's ownership would only be allowed to serve purposes that are acceptable in a democratic society or absolutely necessary. As I have said before, it will be easier to restrict the right to property and the freedom to conduct a business than certain other rights and freedoms, since the limitation and suspension rules do not apply to those rights. Madam President, I would like The limitation contained in Chapter 2 of the Government Act. Paragraphs 15 and 17 are that the two rights may only be restricted in order to satisfy urgent public interests. But what are general interests? It is largely up to those who want to expropriate a particular property to decide what is an urgent public interest. For example, you can imagine a company wanting to expand by buying a neighboring property by means of the Expropriation Act or with the support of the Planning and Construction Act after a planning process. The company may ask the municipality to expropriate the land so that this could lead to more jobs. Could this then be transformed into a public interest, at the expense of individual property rights? That is why I ask the Minister once again: would it not be appropriate for the right of ownership and freedom to conduct a business to enjoy the same protection as other rights and freedoms and, therefore, be subject to the limitation rules and the rules on suspension in Chapter 2 of the Government Act? Paragraphs 21 and 22?
i-1d5433a38697af7b-272	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is to be welcomed that John Widegren has called for this debate on property rights and freedom to conduct a business. These are urgent issues for a country that has built its prosperity with these very two legs as foundations. As a member of the Committee on Environment and Agriculture, I would like to take this opportunity to broaden this debate with some examples from the reality of this particular area. Mr President, I would like to In 2013, the County Administrative Board made a supervisory visit to the Hillström family in Bredöl, a few miles from Lake Vänern. For generations, since 1856, the family has been operating a small-scale sawmill with energy from Nossan's flowing water. But about 200 meters apart there are two turbines, which at maximum power take out about a quarter of the watercourse's average flow. However, following the visit of the County Administrative Board, the ruling on the procedure in the watercourse was declared null and void. The motive was to give fishermen better hiking paths upstream. This may be a good thing, but there are natural hiking obstacles two kilometres downstream, which make it impossible for fish to get up when it's time to play. The legal process is estimated to cost SEK 1.2 million. There are small amounts in this House, where we often talk about billions, but for an individual family it is breathtaking sums. Mr President, I would like to In 2014, the County Administrative Board of Västra Götaland decided to extend the beach protection for 66 of 141 lakes in Lerum. The protection from the edge of the beach then went from 100 meters to 300 meters. This happened despite the fact that several areas were already built. So there was no beach there. In addition, there were a number of properties to which the municipality itself had drawn VA right up to the land limit. That investment will then be quite worthless. When appeal was then made to the Supreme Court, it was established that the state is liable if fundamental rights are not respected. In this case, one might imagine that this is a question of the protection of property in the form of government or the European Convention. But when the government has got the matter on its table, this has been waved away. Mr President, I would like to In 2017, Andreasson and the forest owners Andreasson noted in Bollebygd. They had made a logging report to the Swedish Forest Board according to all the rules of art, but they still had to wait for eleven months for a decision on what to do on their own land. This is where it gets interesting. Once the decision came, the agency wanted to limit the logging plans to protect the skier's playsite. But the skier's playsite was not on AndreassonAndreasson land but on the neighbor's land. Of course, rare birds may seem to be protected, but the feather is not even redlisted. On the contrary, you actually get to shoot as many as you want during the hunting season. Then one might wonder who benefits from the violation of property rights, for neither the neighbor nor the Andreasson nor society seem to make any particular profit. Mr President, I would like to One should not draw big shifts on individual examples, but I would be surprised if the Minister of Justice did not also see the pattern that is taking off.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-282	Mr President, I would like to I was a member of the Fundamental Law investigation, which put forward the proposal for the new form of government. There were a number of issues we discussed there. It was an overall negotiation. As you know, the investigation was led by Per Unckel. One issue we discussed very much was precisely the regulation of property rights. One should be clear that there are at least two strong interests that stand against each other. One is private ownership – the right to do what you want with what you own, whether it is a property, forest, land or whatever it may be. The second is collective social interests. Private property rights are on one side and collective social interests are on the other. What, then, can a collective interest in society look like? These may, for example, be important investments that we need to make. We may need to pull a road or a power line. We may need to draw a railroad. We may need to set up cell towers. Then one must be able to use private property in one way or another. If that were not possible, a great deal of social development in these respects would stop and be locked up. There are plenty of such examples. I myself have been on the construction board at home in Lund. That is certainly 20 years ago, but I remember very well when we were going to draw the double track through Lund. It was a huge plan case, where we finally had to be prepared to redeem some properties so that we could have room at all with the railway we were going to build. This was absolutely necessary in order to increase capacity. In the Basic Law investigation, we discussed a lot about where the boundaries should go and about what will happen when you get your private property claimed in different ways – it may be that the advice over it becomes limited or maybe even that it is expropriated. Then we changed the rules and said that you should get full compensation for the property. We made this clear in the investigation. There should also be better legal support for some restrictions on advice. Then, in 2010, the Alliance government took further action on the remuneration rules. If buildings were to be used by coercive means, you increased the compensation so that you would receive an additional 25% of the market value in relation to what was previously the case. Here we are talking about things that are constitutionally regulated. I think that the regulation we now have is well balanced. I stand by the agreement that exists, just as the Moderates do, as I understand. It is perhaps even more important that we stick to this now because we are facing a situation in which we will have to make huge investments in society in the coming years. We will have to build a lot of infrastructure, both roads and railways. We're going to have to build a lot of housing. We may also need to upgrade the IT infrastructure in different ways. Then we cannot help to make this even more difficult. That is precisely the balance to be struck. A constitutional agreement is signed for a very long time to come, and it is only a few years since we did this. I therefore see no reason to tear up the constitutional agreement on this issue. I stand by what we agreed at the time.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-290	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. Like Mr Jesper, I would like to talk a little about agriculture and forestry, which often comes up on property rights issues in the light of both public authorities' intervention with regard to environmental and conservation considerations and of public or private operators wanting access to agricultural or forestry land, for example, for roads and railways. The Minister is talking here about the collective interest. I understand the collective interest, but the root of it must always be that ownership should come ahead of the general. Then maybe we should increase the compensation even more when we do the procedure. We see increased rights and appeals when landowners make logging notifications to produce forest. Forests are our most important export industry. It is about the species protection regulation, key biotopes and more. There is constant pressure on individual landowners. As I told the Minister a few weeks ago, we see activists on the farms, where people want to carry on their business. Is it a public interest to expropriate arable land – one removes a finite resource, the arable land, which is a constantly declining commodity on earth? The Reepalu investigation and the requirements for profit restrictions for private welfare companies can also be addressed, which in practice means restrictions on both ownership and business freedom. These are some examples of situations where the issue of property rights and the status of business freedom in today's society are raised. In the light of the fundamental importance of ownership and business freedom for a free and prosperous society, it is therefore essential now to carry out a comprehensive mapping of threats and restrictions to property rights and to the freedom to conduct a business. How, for example, are the wordings applied in case of urgent public interest? How common is expropriation, and what reasons are given? What other measures threaten, in theory and practice, property rights and freedom to conduct a business? Which of the threats depends on the design of legislation and other rules – who, for example, may appeal against a felling? Who depends on how authorities and courts apply the rules? For example, we have 27 different county boards that interpret rules in completely different ways in, for example, trials and other things. That is why I would like to ask the Minister once again, Mr President, whether it is not time for the government to set up a Committee on Freedom of Property and Trade, which is tasked with deeply and broadly identifying and analysing the situation so that this erosion of property rights does not continue.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-296	Mr President, I would like to We have growth in Sweden at the moment, and that is a little simplified by three things. Firstly, exports to other countries are strong. However, we know that many of the economies we export to are borrowed. Secondly, we have a large public consumption as a result of a large reception of refugees. However, reception has declined significantly since 2015 and continues to decline with announced policies. Thirdly, we have strong private consumption. This is largely due to the job tax deductions, but these are, of course, critical of the Social Democrats. Mr President, I would like to We therefore need to consider where future growth will come from. As a rhetorical approach, we can look at the three major sectors of manufacturing industry, that is, the base of Swedish prosperity. With regard to the cement industry in northern Gotland, where Europe's greenest cement factory is located, the whole activity is threatened by the government's proposal for new, large Natura 2000 sites. When it comes to forests in Norrland and our 330 000 private forest owners, the government has really increased the pace of identifying new key biotopes, something that does not provide formal protection but makes the timber worthless. As regards SSAB and LKAB, two large companies, it is clear that they are affected by the government's total tax increases of SEK 40 billion since 2014. The question is, of course, where growth will actually come from when property rights are eliminated. For the rest, I should like to endorse the proposals made by John Widegren in his interpellation and thank him for the debate.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-302	Mr President, I would like to When Jesper Skalberg Karlsson explains the strong growth we have, he lines up the exports, and that's right. He mentions public consumption, but it certainly has more to do with the reception of refugees. This was perhaps the case in 2015 – 2016, but not now, 2017. Instead, it is now because of the huge money we have spent, for example, on health care and school – that we are hiring far more in those businesses. He also mentions private consumption and links it to the job tax deduction. Well, I think private consumption is largely driven by the fact that employment has increased as much as it has. People have jobs, and if you have jobs you also have money in your wallet and can go shopping. As you know, unemployment has fallen very sharply. Then Jesper Skalberg Karlsson totally forgets one of the issues we are actually discussing here, namely the construction. Housing construction is at record levels, and it is clear that it is also driving growth right now that we have a turnaround in housing investment. We need to build a lot of homes. Finally, it is about the fact that we have order in public finances. The fact that we have surpluses in public finances in itself means that interest rates can be kept low, and that in itself also means that growth can be high. So Jesper Skalberg Karlsson does not even give half an explanation, I would say, for the good economic development we are seeing right now. It is true, however, that we have great growth. What I wanted to explain in my previous speech was that different interests stand against each other. We have private property rights on the one hand and collective social interests on the other. That is what I said; it is not just about collective interests but about collective social interests. We have an interest in being able to carry out many of the investments we need to make. I point to road investments, electricity lines that need to be drawn, railways, mobile masts that need to be set up and so on. If we had not had the opportunity to carry out such investments because this would be locked by individual property owners, you can imagine what country we would have had. Sometimes we need to be able to carry out such investments, and then we need the opportunity to expropriate at worst. Then the owner must have full compensation. There should be clear legal support for this, and that is exactly what we corrected from 2011 on due to the deal we made. John Widegren also highlights the issue of private welfare companies, and I have to say that I find it incredibly difficult to understand that discussion. For me, the discussion is about ensuring that tax money is well managed, that is to say, ensuring that the money we pay into tax is also spent on school, for example. For that is the idea of paying money into taxes – that they should be used for school and not, as it were, bubbling away in some big profits and finally ending up in a tax haven somewhere. We don't want that. In addition, with regard to the school and these strong profit interests, there is a risk of rating inflation, i.e. that companies compete with each other in that part. I do not think this has anything to do with the freedom to conduct a business, but with how best to manage our jointly run tax money and ensure that it is used properly. Finally, I am not prepared to raise the issue again. I think we made a deal in 2010, following the investigation led by Per Unckel. I stand by that agreement, and I assume that the Moderates also stand by it.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-311	Mr President, I would like to I often hear ministers talk about the good economy, and it feels fantastic that it is thanks to the bourgeois government that we have the good economy today. The worst economic crisis in a very long time came through the best of all countries in Europe. As far as welfare companies are concerned, the Minister and I will probably disagree. I believe that it is still a company you run, and in a company there will be profits. However, we should not talk about profits, but about quality. I'm talking to a lot of landowners' organisations, and they're feeling a big threat today. They feel that ownership is under threat and that it is being eroded more and more. That is a concern we must take seriously. I understand that the Minister may sometimes find it difficult to highlight ownership, because the parties he intends to cooperate with are not very happy in ownership. I would therefore ask the Minister, once again, to consider during the weekends whether we might still open up the Committee on Freedom of Property and Trade in order to move forward on the issues of property rights. In addition, I would like to take this opportunity to wish the Minister a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. Thank you for the debate.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-315	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I'll think about a lot of things during Christmas. However, I do not think that I will have come to any other conclusion after the weekends than I do today, namely that we have once actually decided what the limit should be. We did that when we settled this on the basis of the Basic Law investigation a few years ago. As I said, I and my party are committed to the settlement, and in fact I think it is quite important. It can't be that the Moderates just stand by the basic law investigation when you're in government and then, as soon as you get into opposition, start trying to deviate from agreements. After all, there must be some kind of basic honesty here. What we agree on should apply entirely regardless of whether you are in an opposition or a government position. I assume, as I said, that the Moderates also stand by the settlement that was made. It was, of course, part of a package where many other things were negotiated. We gave ourselves in various respects, and you gave yourself in various respects, John Widegren, precisely so that we could find a compromise. If you start twitching in that compromise just because you have ended up in a minority, you end up in a situation where big agreements cannot be signed. It must be possible to trust each other even when there has been a change of government. I think it's important. The economy is going well, and John Widegren says it depends on the bourgeois government. I'm going to say that it wasn't very fun to take up in 2014, when we had to take over a huge deficit. That was 60 billion in deficit. Of course, one can also say that the longer we get to control, the better for Sweden. I therefore think that the argument put forward by John Widegren is rather weak. I would, of course, like to take this opportunity to wish John Widegren a really merry Christmas and a well-deserved rest in the weeks to come.
i-A7gDfT15kcgHp8ryoReLnF	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Beckman, for the interpellation! Lars Beckman has asked me if I am aware that the problems that the Social Insurance Agency has with personal assistance payments have continued and require urgent action and what measures I intend to take in the performance of my duties so that the companies will not be affected by the late administration of the Social Insurance Agency. Lars Beckman has also asked me whether I would be willing to work towards introducing a legislative change so that the authority will be obliged to make payments on a certain date, provided that all documents are properly completed. In October 2016, Försäkringskassan introduced arrears payment of assistance compensation for about 90 per cent of all persons eligible for assistance. The aim was to ensure better control and more legally secure management of assistance payments and to reduce undue payments. I agree with Lars Beckman that the idea of the change was good. It is a good measure to achieve better control. It is also a natural order for most businesses to be paid when a service has been performed and reported. In autumn 2016, Försäkringskassan introduced an opportunity for the assistance companies to submit time reports digitally. In the autumn of 2017, the Agency introduced an additional service that also allows for the registration of assistants who perform personal assistance electronically. These are data necessary for payments to be made. In the spring of 2017, the Agency also commissioned a completely new processing support for all administrators. In total, this means that major changes in the treatment have been made at Försäkringskassan during the last year to simplify the accounting and speed up the processing. The introduction has led to some run-in problems over a certain period of time, which has contributed to longer processing times and difficulties with the payment of assistance compensation. Last week I received information from Försäkringskassan that the handling has worked well this autumn and that the agency is well on the way to getting to grips with the running-in problems. However, in order for a payment to be made after assistance has been made, a complete report from the organiser must be submitted to the authority. This is necessary in order to guarantee legal certainty. The Social Insurance Agency has informed me that up to 40 per cent of the supporting documents sent by the assistance provider, which will form the basis for the payment, are incomplete and need to be supplemented. The effect of incomplete documentation from organisers is a delayed processing and payment. Försäkringskassan spends a lot of time in contacts with assistance providers to supplement the documentation and to inform about the importance of providing correct and complete information. Due to the unexpected need for additional funding, the Authority is not yet fully in line with the payments. The obligation of the Social Insurance Agency to pay assistance compensation on 20 days of each month is laid down in the Regulation on assistance compensation. The Authority has taken several steps to ensure that payments operate as smoothly as possible. In addition to additional resources to handle the inflow of data, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has introduced an additional payment date per month in order to allow beneficiaries and organisers to receive compensation as soon as possible. Thus, if the supporting documents for payment are properly completed, there are already provisions and conditions for the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to make quick payments.
i-95cz8PT6DVGMWJgaiP9Myd	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This interpellation is about whether thousands of people should be able to buy Christmas gifts this year. This interpellation is about whether the private assistance companies should be paid by Försäkringskassan, which would mean that they can pay their salary on Friday. So this interpellation is about people. It is about thousands of employees who have seen their salaries paid too late and who are now in danger of not being able to buy Christmas presents on Friday. Mr President, I would like to The Government Mikael Damberg has devoted a large part of 2017 to talking about 30 days of payment time. He's traveled land and kingdom around. He has been very interested in creating short payment periods, and he has also told us why this is important. Of course, Minister Mikael Damberg should instead have sat down in a room with Minister Åsa Regnér. He should have called Försäkringskassan and tried to get Försäkringskassan to start paying out money on time. The attack that has taken place on welfare companies, Mr President, should be seen as a collective picture. This government started by doubling employers' contributions for young people. It struck, of course, hard on the private assistance companies, whose employed assistants are about 25 percent under 25 years of age. The government has not listed the state compensation in relation to the collective agreements signed. This puts enormous pressure on both the disabled in Sweden and on the private assistance companies. They also went over to the post-payment. Then it would not have been completely unthinkable that the government and the Social Insurance Office would have listened to the warning signals that came? After all, it was not that the companies sat still and did not try to influence Försäkringskassan and the government. On 21 June, for example, the Health Care Companies wrote a letter to the Board of Directors of the Social Insurance Agency, which I am absolutely sure Minister Åsa Regnér is aware of, warning of the consequences of introducing post-payment when the IT systems were not in place. It is clear from the Government's response that there have been major entry problems. I would like to see the private company that can send a letter to the Swedish Tax Agency saying: We cannot make payments of employers' contributions or VAT now, because we have run-in problems in our IT systems. ..................................................... I am quite sure, Mr President, that the Tax Agency would completely ignore such an explanation. I find it very sad and tragic that this government has consistently attacked Sweden's disabled people. It feels like the question of post-payment is in line with the policy that has been pursued. I'll tell you about a company in Gävle. That is why I wrote this interpellation, and I have asked the woman concerned if I may read it out. She writes like this: This means that one of my colleagues calls Försäkringskassan in Östersund and asks if Försäkringskassan has no responsibility or obligation to pay out the money then. They refer to the fact that they have no obligation to pay out any money in time, for there was no legally written about it – only that they can and should pay out when they have time. He said we could check the law, but there was no support for that, and then he ended the conversation by throwing the phone in my colleague's ear. ..................................................... This is the reality, the Government. This is the reality for those companies that are now working hard to pay out money to their employees by Christmas.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-342	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by mentioning what the purpose of LSS and personal assistance is. It is that people should be able to live independent lives, which we as Moderates care very much about. Assistance reform is important. It is a central reform of freedom, which I think Åsa Regnér agrees with. As a moderate, I am proud that, together with the other bourgeois government in 1991-1994, we carried out this reform of freedom. The government's letter of regulation and the amended case law have caused concern. The consequences have been devastating for people with disabilities and their relatives. This debate is about how this has affected the companies and employees who work with people affected by this freedom reform. The conditions for carrying out assistance have changed completely over the years. Lars Beckman mentioned a lot of things that have changed in this area. Add mandatory authorisation requirements, administrative charges, documentation and the post-payments that are the subject of today's debate. As both the Minister and Lars Beckman mentioned, the idea of post-payments was to have control over and have a legally secure management of the assistance compensation. But we can see that it has become exactly the opposite for companies that provide assistance in this area. It is very frightening that four out of ten companies, as studies show, have to wait longer than 31 days for compensation, and it is getting worse and worse for these companies. It is about companies going down or employees not getting their wages on time. Here we have an authority responsible for the late payments. Swedish authorities must not behave in this way. That is unacceptable. I will follow up with Lars Beckman's question as to whether the Minister and the Government intend to make any changes to the law so that the authorities will simply be obliged to make payments on a certain date. As I said, it is frightening that the Swedish authorities are paying out this late. That is unacceptable.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-349	Mr President, I would like to In fact, I thought that the government and the Moderates agreed that it is important to control cheating and ensure that taxpayers' money in this case goes very much to the very important purpose that LSS is about, that is, people with extensive disabilities and their rights. I didn't think the Moderates had any opinion that the government, and in this case the Social Insurance Agency, is working hard to deal with cheating and irregularities. Just the other day, a report from the Social Security Inspection showed that by far the largest proportion of all personal assistance providers are serious companies, but that the problems of rogue companies continue and that it is important to address them in various ways. IFS has also asked entrepreneurs how they themselves view rogue companies in the industry, and they say that they think there are major problems with the fact that there are still rogue operators and that this causes problems for the serious players. When we talk about LSS, the people who have rights are always the most important. But it is also incredibly important that the people in Sweden who work hard, with disabilities and without and who tear this money together can rely on us to do everything we can to ensure that the funds are used for these rights. The Moderates tend to cite corporate rights. I think it is incredibly important that the funds are used as intended. And I see that the companies in the ISS report, which the government has ordered, also believe that it is important to have good control in different ways so that the money goes to what they were intended for and to serious actors. Postpayments are a tool that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has introduced to increase control. True, this had run-in problems. It is said that in cases where the supporting documents are of a much better quality than they are supposed to be, the work is much better. In fact, a party colleague and Member of Parliament from the Moderates, Cecilia Widegren, asked me a question about exactly the opposite. Only last summer she was upset that the cheating in the new system was not being followed up closely enough. It is not easy to satisfy the Moderates on this issue. What I do in the meantime is to work hard to ensure that the funds go to the right people, who have the right to personal assistance, and at the same time to discuss with the Swedish Social Insurance Agency how to improve the quality of the assessments and ensure that serious actors are the ones who perform the assistance for the good of the people.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-356	Mr President, I would like to The Government Åsa Regnér has now stood and said that 37 per cent of the companies in the assistance industry are rogue, and I assume that the Government does not mean that. For there are so many, four out of ten companies, who have had to wait 31 days or more for the compensation – four out of ten companies! The Government itself says in its reply that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has problems with its IT systems and that that would be the reason. We have no objection to control. Then you can always wonder if the time aspect makes sense. I was talking to a company. Since you have so little time from the time the personal assistants have to submit signed time reports, it means that you have about four days, or three in practice, to send the documents to the Social Insurance Agency. This means that the company has an employee who goes around and collects time reports because Postnord does not deliver on time. So you have an employee who goes around and collects time reports. Then you send everything correctly to Försäkringskassan, and yet you do not get paid. The consequence, Åsa Regnér, is that on Friday thousands of people cannot buy their Christmas presents. The personal assistants – we could have a full post on how amazingly talented they are – will not be able to buy Christmas gifts because the Social Insurance Agency, a government authority, cannot pay out money on time because, as the Government itself says in the answer, administrative problems, inadequate routines and staff shortages. Mikael Damberg said on Thursday that government agencies will pay within 30 days. He was very clear on that point. He also said that if the Social Insurance Agency does not pay in time, you should be invoiced interest and extra fees. It is also good if Åsa Regnér makes it clear here today that companies that in 2017 have not been able to get paid on time, have had to get emergency credit from banks – this is how they have had to solve the liquidity gap – can be reimbursed by Försäkringskassan for these costs. The concrete question is thus: Does Minister Åsa Regnér Mikael Damberg share the view that companies that have not been paid in time should invoice the extra costs they have had? That was the concrete message Mikael Damberg gave. Then, unfortunately, when the health service providers did a survey last spring, in March, three out of ten companies had had to wait 31 days or more. Now that the same survey has been repeated, there are four out of ten companies. So it is not just the private health care companies, it is also the KFO. So developments have gone the wrong way. Nowhere in the answer does the Council of State – and I have not seen such a study – suggest that the late payments would be due to an extensive cheating that has been discovered. There is no one who has claimed this in this House, but according to the answer we have received today it is because the Social Insurance Agency has inadequate IT systems and too little staff that it has not paid out the money on time. I would like to ask the Government a question. Can other companies that have inadequate IT procedures ignore paying VAT, taxes and fees, just like Försäkringskassan did when they threw on the phone during the conversation with the company in Gävle? As I said, does Minister Mikael Damberg share the view that the companies that have been affected by late payments should invoice interest and the costs that have been incurred?
i-1d5433a38697af7b-366	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by recalling that I began my first speech with the reason why LSS, the personal assistance, is so important precisely to those who need it and their relatives and that I am proud that it was the bourgeois government that introduced it in 1991 - 1994. The individual, the individual, should definitely be in focus. But without companies and without employees in these companies there is no support to satisfy the needs of those who need personal assistance. Unfortunately, they cannot live independent lives without these companies and their amazing employees. That's one part. The second part is the post-payments. You should definitely do the right thing and fill out the papers correctly. The problem is that the money is not paid out in time by a Swedish authority. As a result, many people have to take out expensive loans in order to pay wages. Worse still, they may be forced to close down. Let me highlight what Mikael Damberg said to Lars Beckman during Question Time: we have legislation that applies to public activities, and public authorities and public actors are obliged to pay out within 30 days. Does this also apply in this area?
i-1d5433a38697af7b-371	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my reply, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has an obligation to pay assistance compensation on the 20th of each month. It is stated in the Regulation on assistance payments. More funds have also been made available and an additional monthly payment date has been introduced to catch up. All of this requires having sufficient quality evidence from companies to carry out the checks. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency estimates that, unfortunately, 40% still do not have it in the first turn. Then it takes longer, and errands are piled up. For me, it is important that people who are entitled to personal assistance receive it. The Social Insurance Agency's work on this is at the heart of this activity. Most of what we are talking about here is the exercise of authority by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has worked hard to increase control and legal certainty and to get an even assessment in the country. The new control system also enhances the possibility of finding rogue operators. But you don't have to put words in my mouth. I have not given a figure for how many there would be, and we do not have to do that either. The problem is that there are still rogue actors, as ISF also mentions in its recent report. At least I think it is a question of users' rights and of keeping track of whether these funds are available to them or not. I think it has emerged during the term of office that the government is keen to ensure that the funds go to the right ends, and the Social Insurance Agency is working hard on that.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-376	Mr President, I would like to I thank Åsa Regnér for the debate. Let us first find out where the figure of 40% comes from. At a meeting on 9 June, Försäkringskassan told, among others, the health service providers that 40 per cent of the data are incorrect, but they come from municipalities. This debate is about the thousands of personal assistants who risk not being able to buy Christmas presents this weekend because of the slowness of the Social Insurance Agency. We agree on controls and all that, but we do not agree that an authority will introduce a post-payment and will not be able to pay the private companies on time. Those affected by this are ultimately the disabled and the skilled personal assistants, who work hard. I am surprised by this debate. I had expected us to be on the same side, for the disabled and for the skilled personal assistants and for the Social Insurance Agency to fulfil its task of paying out money on time to the companies that have submitted complete documentation. I hope that Åsa Regnér invites the healthcare companies and others and that she takes this issue very seriously. It is not reasonable that companies risk going bankrupt because the Social Insurance Agency does not pay out money on time, such as the assistance company in Jönköping, which is run by an environmental party and which we have been able to read about. Firms face major liquidity concerns. I wish Åsa Regnér Merry Christmas and Happy New Year. We'll see if you continue as a minister or go to the UN.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-383	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lars Beckman for his Christmas greeting. Of course, companies should have good conditions and be able to anticipate when they receive their funds. At the same time, Försäkringskassan should be able to carry out good checks. When problems arose this summer with the Social Insurance Fund's payment system and control system, a great deal of effort was made, not least so that serious companies would not suffer from the problems they had in the system. Then the Moderates were angry about it and asked me questions about why you weren't better at cheating. It is not easy to satisfy you on this issue. But I am pleased if we agree that we must ensure that the funds go to the people who are entitled to them, while at the same time having both an approach and a system that allows serious organisers to have the best conditions, while rogue organisers should be able to trust that they are found. It is important to find a balance, and my contacts with the Swedish Social Insurance Agency show that they are working hard on this in order to overcome the concerns that have been and, above all, to ensure that people who are entitled to personal assistance are given it by serious organisers.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-388	Mr President, I would like to Sten Bergheden has asked me what measures I am taking in my area of responsibility to reduce the impact of the wolf on rural areas and livestock farming and whether I intend to increase the compensation for those who work in the agricultural industries and suffer from wolf. The Government's ambition is, and has been, throughout its term of office to bring order to Swedish game management. As far as predatory policy is concerned, the long-term objective is that these species should achieve and maintain a favourable conservation status, while keeping domestic animals at home is not significantly impeded and socio-economic considerations are taken into account. While we have viable predator populations, those living and operating in rural areas should be able to feel safe, hunt and keep domesticated. Predators' administration is regionalised. For anchoring and credibility in game management, there is a need for local influence, collaboration and real participation, for example through the game management delegations. In these contexts, there is the possibility of consultation and effective influence in the processes of the authorities. The government values the role of delegations in this context and has recently strengthened local influence by expanding delegations with two representatives of different local interests. The government has also improved the possibility of providing financial support to agriculture for measures to prevent and compensate predatory damage. During the term of office, the Government has made large increases in the grant, from more than SEK 30 million to more than SEK 52 million. In order to simplify that these funds will benefit from their intended benefits to individual farmers, the Government decided on 23 November 2017 on rules facilitating support for those purposes. This is intended to contribute further to the long-term anchoring of predator policy, i.e. to reduce the impact of predators on those living and working in rural areas.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-394	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I thought that the question that is easiest to answer is what measures the Government takes in its area of responsibility to reduce the impact of the wolf on rural areas and animal husbandry. I might have expected something about the wolf tribe actually being a little too large in Sweden and that we should look at how many wolves really exist in our countryside and in our forests. But thank you for your answer. The Minister says in his reply that domestic animal husbandry should not be significantly impeded. The Minister also says that people in the countryside should feel safe, pursue hunting and keep domestication. We have a wolf tribe that is well above the level decided by the Riksdag: 170 – 270 individuals. It is a wolf tribe that in some places has made it completely impossible to release hunting dogs, which have seriously caused people in the countryside to stop their livestock because they can't take it anymore and which have forced the moose hunt to be cancelled because there are too few moose because of the wolf. A recent inventory has been carried out in which it was found that we have at least 400 wolves. I think that the Minister for Rural Development, like me when I travel around the country, gets a clear picture of what people out there think about the wolf tribe. It is considered to be too large, and it appeals to us politicians to do something. Mr President, I would like to I listen to what people are saying, and that is one of the great reasons why we are having this debate today. This is where we have to make some kind of decision and have some kind of direction for when we think we have too many wolves in the country and what we can do about the situation. Mr President, I would like to The situation is not acceptable. Domestic animal husbandry and hunting have been made very difficult. The Minister is responsible for what is happening, although the Minister and the Social Democrats have obviously negotiated the wolf issue and handed it over to the Green Party to take charge of the government. In the debates we have had here in the past, it has been clear that it is not the Social Democrats and the Minister who govern this, but the ideology of the Green Party. The Minister has simply sacrificed rural people and their security, domestic animals, dogs and hunting to keep the Green Party in a good mood. This is a betrayal of the countryside. Instead of increasing food production and taking advantage of the opportunities we have to produce more animals and more food in rural areas, the government has chosen to ensure that the wolf population can increase there. Mr President, I would like to Rural areas need answers to some questions that come here: Does the Minister think that the current wolf strain is acceptable to rural areas and in no way hampers domestic animal husbandry? Does the Minister think that the current wolf tribe does not significantly affect hunting? Does the Minister think that rural areas simply have to tolerate this level of wolves in Sweden?
i-1d5433a38697af7b-404	Mr President, I would like to On the day of the interpellation, I received a written question from Mr Sten Bergheden with exactly the same content, to which I have replied. There will now be an answer to the same question again, now in the form of an interpellation. I'm a little surprised how these instruments are handled, but okay. I would like to start by thanking you for the opportunity to debate again the predatory administration in Parliament. It is a very important issue for me and the government and especially for the rural areas and the people who live there. I know it very well as a rural resident. The government has continuously and consistently worked to bring order to Swedish game management. The government has a long-term sustainable management that takes into account all the opportunities and challenges of predators. Mr President, I would like to When the government took office in autumn 2014, there was total disorder in the hunt for wolf. The legal order put in place by the then alliance government created total disorder. It even went so far as to be rejected by the Supreme Court. It was a lottery if it was going to be hunting or not. I quickly understood the resignation that existed in Swedish countryside over this legal order and disorder. Mr President, I would like to The predators are a part of Swedish biodiversity and a matter of course in our nature. A viable stock is also important. It is equally important that predatory policy takes account of the people who live in the areas where predators are located, that is, mainly in rural areas. A close dialogue with the people affected by predators is needed in order to anchor the policy. This is why the administration is regionalised to the county boards. They have local knowledge and support, which is necessary for the decisions they are to take and the policies to be implemented to reflect the reality out there. The government has brought order to this hunt. The government has also nearly doubled the funding to protect domestic animals, from 30 million to 52 million.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-411	Mr President, I would like to If the minister of order in Vargsverige thinks that the wolf tribe may increase without anything more happening and that the countryside must tolerate this, it may be true, if it was the purpose of bringing order into order. The government has allowed the wolf population to increase in rural areas – at the expense of the rural population, domestic animals and dogs. It is great that we should have a local knowledge and dialogue with people who are affected, but what do we do when we see that the situation is not holding out there and that we have to start discussing? We have actually made a decision about 170 – 270 wolves in Sweden, and according to the inventory we have over 400 wolves. Of course, we need to start discussing whether the levels are holding and whether people are really going to tolerate this. I asked the Minister three questions as to whether this is acceptable for rural areas, and I think the Minister has taken note of them. Before the debate is over, I might get an answer to them. So far, I haven't got it. Mr President, I would like to We have over 250 000 wolves in the world. Most countries in Europe have wolves, and in the other countries they hunt wolves. In some countries wolf hunting is completely free. In the rest of Europe we do not have a debate on endangered wolves, but there the wolf is considered to be any game. Sweden has about 400 wolves, according to the inventory, but there can be many more. Finland, on the other hand, is 220 to 245 wolves, on a much larger surface. The small area we have wolf on in Sweden is smaller than Finland's total area with wolf, and they have about half as many wolves. Of course, we are suffering great damage and problems with a wolf trunk that is as dense as it is in these areas. This is the central concern. If the wolf tribe had been 270 wolves scattered throughout the country, it would have been a completely different matter, but now they are concentrated in certain areas. There's a lot of damage, and there people have started to give up. The EU has now created new conditions for moving species from red-listed to game hunting. It would facilitate hunting for wolves in Sweden if we got it transferred from red-listed to huntable game. The Swedish parliament has announced to the government the establishment of a new wildlife agency to which the wolf would be moved from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. The Minister has said on a number of occasions that this issue is being prepared at the Government Office. Now the government has had a long time, since March 2015, to change and ensure that the announcement is actually fulfilled. Even if the government is perhaps not so fast in its work, surely almost three years should be enough to present a proposal for a new wildlife agency? Here, too, we have seen no desire from the government to actually comply with Parliament's decision to present a proposal for a game agency. My questions once again will be: Should people in the countryside tolerate the level of the wolf tribe that we have today in terms of hunting, domestication and dogs? Does the Minister intend to work in any way to move the wolf from being redlisted to being hunting game in Europe? When will the proposal for a new wildlife agency be presented, after three years of reflection?
i-1d5433a38697af7b-424	Mr President, I would like to Sten Bergheden mentions the wolf and wolf population in Europe. The wolf is strictly protected within the EU under the Species and Habitats Directive. That is not something that can be decided at national level. There is a protection that is very hard. I do not know what inventory of wolf Mr Sten Bergheden is talking about. But the official inventory so m exists shows that there are 355 individuals. It is the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that is responsible for the implementation of the policy and that also does a quality assurance. For the 2018 license hunt, the county administrative boards have decided on 22 individuals. The decisions are appealed and have been handed over to the Administrative Court in Luleå, which has determined the decisions. The judgment has also been appealed. We have now brought order to the hunt for wolves. Firstly, the county administrative boards have been required to take a decision a month earlier. Secondly, we do not, as before, have several court courts that take decisions in completely different ways, but it is an administrative court in Luleå. Judgments can be appealed to the Administrative Court of Appeal in Sundsvall. This has caused us to get things together in the hunt for wolves. There was total disorder when this government took office in 2014. The rule of law put in place by the Alliance government created a lottery in terms of whether there should be hunting or not. It was so bad that it was even annulled by the Supreme Administrative Court. Now there's order in the hunt for wolves. We have also increased the funds from EUR 30 million to EUR 52 million in order to protect domestic animals.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-429	Mr President, I would like to Even if the number that has emerged from the inventory is reduced to 355, of course not all individuals have been found in that inventory either. And 355 individuals are, as far as I know, more than the 170 – 270 individuals supported by the Riksdag. It is clear that I am not getting an answer as to what the countryside should tolerate in terms of the number of wolves. The minister apparently believes that the countryside can tolerate this wolf tribe. The hunters are obviously allowed to tolerate the reduction of game strains and the eating of their dogs. The Minister has not worked out any proposal for a game agency, which I could interpret as he said, after three years of reflection. Even here today, the Minister has not clearly stated anything about his ambition to move the wolf from being red-listed to being huntable game in Europe, which could be possible. The government has therefore done nothing more than allow the wolf tribe to grow in Sweden at the expense of the countryside. Meanwhile, they have quietly sat with the Environmental Party in the Government Office and waited. It is becoming more and more obvious that the Minister and the Government have taken Christmas leave a little early. Now the government and the minister must be properly rested after three years of rest in the Government Office. Nevertheless, I wish the Minister a little Christmas ephride, although I am not quite sure that Santa will visit the Minister. In conclusion, I wish both the President and the Minister a really happy Christmas and a happy new year.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-433	Mr President, I would like to There was no rest when we took office in view of the disorder of the wolf hunt when the alliance government handed over. It was very hard work to get this in place. The issues of predator management are important and cannot be careless with them. You have to have order. I have a great deal of sympathy for the rural people affected by this. That is also why the government has increased funding for the protection of domestic animals. That is an important part of this. But it is not possible to deal with these issues as carelessly as the previous government did. Now we have created order, and we can also handle the wolf tribe in a sensible way. The wolf tribe is protected, but not by national decisions. Sweden cannot suspend the protection afforded to the wolf within the EU.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-435	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler has asked me four questions: When Jonas Gjörtler asked me these questions, the question of the approval of glyphosate had not yet been decided in the appeal committee. Now we have a decision. On 27 November 2017, a qualified majority of the appeal committee voted for the approval of glyphosate for five years. The availability of sustainable plant protection products and plant protection methods is important for the government. The Government has therefore decided earlier this year to change and strengthen the Swedish Plant Protection Council's activities by SEK 6 million. During 2017 – 2019, the Government will also invest SEK 18 million to secure plant protection products for smaller uses. Both efforts are part of the Food Strategy Action Plan and will contribute to Sweden having strategies and conditions to meet future plant health challenges, while helping to reach the food strategy's wording on reducing risks and impacts on human health and the environment. For the government, it is also important that the ongoing review of the plant health regulation includes the impact of the legislation on the diversity and competitiveness of agriculture, human health and the environment, in accordance with the regulation. The Government intends to continue the advocacy work that has been initiated to this end.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-439	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. So my interpellation is about glyphosate. For those who do not know glyphosate, I would like to start by saying that it is the most common active substance in the single most common plant protection product in Sweden that is used mainly for weed control on agricultural land. Furthermore, as regards specifically in Sweden, because we have very strict rules in the field of plant protection, we do not in practice have any alternatives to this plant protection product. This means that it is incredibly important that it is allowed to use this plant protection product, which in practice is the only thing that can actually be used to carry out crop cultivation here. Now it has been a process at EU level this autumn that we heard the Government refer to. It has discussed whether or not glyphosate should continue to be authorised. The EU authorities, on the one hand the Agency and, on the other hand, the Food Safety Authority, have concluded in various reports that glyphosate is not carcinogenic. In Sweden, we have long believed that it is important for us to lean towards scientific conclusions when we make our assessments of what funds to use or not to use. What was the problem in this process was that the government clearly stated that it intends to stand up for the scientific conclusions that exist and that are being made – one has gone out and said that in the media, among other things – but when it started to deal with these matters in the autumn, the government acted in the opposite direction. In a first vote on a ten-year extension, Sweden voted against in a so-called indicative vote when it made a round around the table to see where the Member States were on the issue. They went a long way against what they had said they should do, and they went a long way towards the scientific assessments that should have formed the basis for how they acted. This is serious for a lot of reasons. It violates the important principle and tradition of leaning on scientific conclusions. It also creates great uncertainty about Sweden's position. Can Sweden be trusted in different contexts when we say that we should do one thing in the EU context and the government then chooses to act in a different way? The most serious thing is, of course, that this management risks endangering the future of Swedish agriculture and creates a great deal of uncertainty in Swedish agriculture. What can you do? What can't be done? Which leg is the Swedish government on? Mr President, I would like to I am forced to state that the Government unfortunately does not answer my four questions. On one of them, the last, he responds in part. I would like to say that I think it is good that efforts are being made to develop and improve plant protection in the long term. I believe that we in this House are in broad agreement on the enhanced efforts being made in this area. It can create new opportunities in the longer term, and that is a positive thing. However, the problem does not apply in the long term, I would say, but in the short term, and is about the uncertainty that the government creates by acting in different ways in this process and the ambiguity of Swedish agriculture about what is permitted and what is not allowed. I would like to know how the government sees this view of science. Is this a message you've given before, or is it new?
i-1d5433a38697af7b-448	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I welcome the fact that Jonas Gjörtler has called for this debate on plant protection and the long-term prospects of agriculture. Sweden is an elongated country in northern Europe, and with our cold climate we need all the traction aid that is possible to have a functioning food production. Then it is also unreasonable if Sweden on its own hold should trap the hookbone on itself. Mr President, I would like to Glyphosate is a name that may sound dangerous and foreign, but it is actually the name of one of the world's most widely used plant protection products. In Sweden it is the most widely used plant protection product. That's good. Glyphosate is often the agent that replaces other, more harmful alternatives, such as plant protection products with organochlorinated compounds as active substance. Glyphosate is also authorised by the European Food Safety Authority (Efsa) and the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA). It is the positions of the two bodies that usually form the basis of the Swedish position on chemicals. That is a good thing, because the chemicals policy through the REACH Regulation is at EU level. The tradition of listening to scientific expertise rather than letting politicians go on the gut or letting interest groups dictate the conditions ensures that industries that depend on effective plant protection are given long-term, predictable rules of play. Here the government has swung considerably during the autumn with its various announcements on the question of an extended approval of glyphosate. It's very strange. The government knows that the Swedish use of glyphosate is restrictive. For example, you must not use the product before the harvest when growing grain. The government also knows that conventional farming requires effective plant protection. For example, if we want to engage in plough-free agriculture, which leads to reduced diesel use, we need glyphosate. The government also knows that we have a shorter growing season in Sweden than in southern Europe, for example, which means that we have fewer crops to choose from. Mr President, I would like to Perhaps there will be even better alternatives than glyphosate in the future. I am convinced that nanotechnology, green chemistry and digitalisation can lead to new innovative solutions. It is not incredible that these advances are also being made here in our country, but until then a ban on glyphosate would be a huge risk factor for Swedish farmers. I am interested to hear the answer to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler's second question about what alternative methods the government sees in its språkula. I ask farmers, scientists and experts, but no one seems to see these alternative methods against which the government leans and believes can replace any use of plant protection in conventional farming to the full. Isn't it a little strange that it seems only the government is seeing these alternative methods? And if they do exist, who are they really?
i-1d5433a38697af7b-456	Mr President, I would like to The government sees that there is a very large potential for increasing food production in Sweden. That is why we have pushed forward and adopted a national food strategy. It is about increasing food production – increasing it in primary production and also in the food industry. We have invested EUR 1 billion to increase the competitiveness of the entire food chain. Why do we do that? Yes, we believe in Swedish agriculture. We also believe that it is possible to create a better competitiveness in Swedish agriculture. It is also necessary for us to do so in order to increase our food production overall. Then there are several factors that contribute to competitiveness. One thing is precisely what we are discussing in this interpellation debate, i.e. plant protection products. This is an important factor in managing competitiveness. This is why this government has allocated SEK 6 million to the Swedish Plant Protection Council as an important part of not least primary production. That is also why this government has dedicated 18 million to research new plant protection products. The Food Strategy clearly identifies plant protection products as an important element in increasing the competitiveness of primary production. But let us not forget that it also states that we should minimise the risks to human health and the environment. As far as plant protection products are concerned, it is a joint decision at EU level. The first time glyphosate was approved was in 2002. Now it's being reconsidered. Germany has been rapporteur, and it is now being reconsidered. That is what it is about: the decision taken in 2002 is to be reconsidered. The government has been very clear. We'll accept scientific assessments. European assessments have made it clear that this substance is not carcinogenic. That's the scientific assessment. Then there are international assessments from the IARC within the World Health Organisation that have come to a different conclusion. One thing is important to state in the debate, especially when Mr Gjörtler claims that it has voted no: Sweden has not voted no. Some have interpreted Swedish action at the meeting on 25 October as a 'no' vote. There was no round of votes, but a round table. And that conversation showed that there was a clear majority of the other countries in the EU not to approve for ten years. The decision taken later is an extension of five years.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-462	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for Rural Affairs. He starts by laying out the text a little about the potential for increasing food production in Sweden and the importance of a food strategy. This is probably a more general allocation, with which it is easy to agree. I think we fully agree on that. We have discussed the food strategy. And we have a broad agreement in this House to increase Swedish food production. About the case, we agree. But the challenge is also to provide the tools. We are forced to state that the government is failing on a point-by-point basis. You do not take the big steps you should take in terms of costs, rules and other things. We must ensure that agriculture is given the right tools and that these tools are here and now. You can't just look forward. Mr President, I would like to It does not help to set aside money to perhaps, hopefully, find new methods and better alternative ways of solving plant health in the future, if, at the same time, you go to Brussels and vote in favour of a ban here and now. Then we will have no agriculture left, when the new methods may have been researched. We must have a system in which the very regulated and limited possibilities of using plant protection that exists in Sweden still remain permitted. Now the Minister for Rural Development says that Sweden has not voted 'no'. That is correct in that respect – as I said in my previous speech – that it was not a formal vote, but a so-called indicative vote or a round to check it out. It doesn't matter in practice. If, in that situation, Sweden says that it intends to vote 'no', that is what applies. It will then go against the message you have given. It has been said that it would vote in favour. And that, in turn, was based on the scientific assessments that various authorities have made. The question remains: On what basis, for example in scientific conclusions, do the Government and the Government advocate a transition to alternative methods for Swedish agriculture? And what are the methods to which the government refers? This can't just be a guessing game for everyone involved. Agriculture needs long-term rules of play. It's about daring to invest and invest. But it is also a question of planning and laying up the cultivation for several years to come. If you are to choose to switch to alternative methods, such questions are incredibly important. In the interpellation, I refer to plough-free agriculture as an example. It has great advantages. You need to use the machines much less. There'll be less soil compaction. Less diesel is used, which is good for both the economy and the environment. And it reduces climate emissions. However, the method is completely impossible to apply if these plant protection products are not available. And in Sweden it is glyphosate that applies. I would like the Government to develop what is meant by alternative methods. And what scientific conclusions is this based on?
i-1d5433a38697af7b-470	Mr President, I would like to If you are going to play a guessing game, you can imagine that organic farming is the only method of cultivation that remains in Sweden without glyphosate and other plant protection. I fully understand that a government that includes the Green Party wants to promote organic production. I also want to increase organic production, but not at the expense of conventional farming. Sweden needs to give both industries the opportunity to grow. It's not about one or the other, it's about both. I have also read what many green debaters write about what they think a ban on glyphosate would mean for a switch to organic production here in Sweden. However, I have great doubts as to whether it has any real support whatsoever. It is customer demand that controls production. This is true in the other sectors, and this is the case here. If Sweden makes conventional cultivation difficult or impossible by political means and the demand for conventionally grown food is kept constant, that gap will thus be filled with imported food. I know, and I think the Minister knows, that Swedish food is responsibly produced food – whether it is organic or conventional. It would be extremely sad if the policies pursued were to move towards something else. It is entirely the responsibility of the Minister for Rural Development to ensure that this does not happen. With that, I would like to thank you for my participation in this debate.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-474	Mr President, I would like to Sweden cannot act alone on these issues. The plant protection products to be placed on the EU market are jointly regulated. This is an extension of five years. And it does not only apply to Swedish agriculture. Exactly the same applies to all the countries of the European Union. There's no difference. The decisions on which substances should be allowed take the countries together. So it is not we, as an individual country, who can decide this. As far as glyphosate is concerned, it has taken time. It has also been a process that has been edged by a lot of emotions. And risks have also been discussed. There are always risks associated with plant protection products. I would say that Sweden is far ahead in this context. There are, of course, areas where we need to work more on this. We have now received a plant protection council in place, which has received a lot of money to deal with these issues. That's one way to handle it. The second is to set aside 18 million to develop new plant protection products. It's not sitting passively. It is to follow the food strategy that this Parliament has set out. It is clear that plant protection products are an important factor in competitiveness. Swedish agriculture is among the most modern in the world. And I know that new technologies will be found. I'm convinced of that. As far as organic production is concerned, as Members mention, we have large imports of organic goods. Go around the shops in this city and look! The shelves are empty on organic products. Look at our neighboring country, Denmark! It invests hugely in ecologically, to take an even greater part of the Swedish market, and the German market. The demand for organic products is increasing dramatically. Mr President, I would like to I do not understand that the Moderates are opposed to agricultural products getting higher up the value chain, to companies being allowed to make more money. It is clear that organic farming companies have significantly higher profitability. I don't understand why the Moderates are against us getting more Swedish organic products on the business shelves. I don't understand why the Moderates want us to import more organic products.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-481	Mr President, I would like to The government is trying to mix the cards away a little bit and is talking about quite a lot more than what the interpellation is really about. But let us first sort this out with the value chain and the claims the Minister for Rural Development makes. Of course, the Moderates take a positive view of the fact that agriculture and the entire food chain can climb up the value chain. This can be done in different ways, for example by adding value and what consumers are prepared to pay for. That's excellent. It would be even better to do so without politics interfering and trying to steer this. It is then that it is usually wrong, when policies consider themselves qualified to judge what is valuable and what is not, and when they tell consumers what priorities they should do. Then things usually go wrong. So we are not against climbing the value chain, but we are against politics trying to steer certain forms of production over others. There is room to grow both for conventional production and for organic production. The suspicion here, which was suggested earlier in the debate, is that this is a way for the government to put aside the bones of parts of conventional production, possibly in line with what parts of the government would see as positive, that is to say, that it aims to promote organic production by putting aside the bones of conventional production. This would be very problematic. As the Government says, Swedish agriculture is well ahead. We use very little plant protection products in this country compared to all other countries, and with new technology we will be able to do even less plant protection products. However, going down to Brussels and voting in favour of a ban on one of the few funds that can and must be used is directly counterproductive. It strikes agriculture and, moreover, it runs counter to the scientific assessments that have been made.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-487	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has gone down to Brussels and voted in favour of a five-year extension. In my work, I will continue to engage in strengthening the green industries. It's not gonna end. It's a work that goes on all the time. The rest of the government also has the ambition to strengthen agriculture and to strengthen the food sector. We must produce more food in Sweden. We do this together with the industries. But politics must also support industry. That is why this government has allocated 1 billion over the next few years to support increased food production in Sweden. That is also why this government has recently taken a decision on a historic investment in food exports of 48 billion. We've never been near that before. The background is, of course, the common food strategy that we have adopted in this House. I am pleased that all parties were committed to the overall strategic objectives. Mr Gjörtler was also very active in this work, and I thank the honourable Member for that. Mr President, I would like to Finally, we shall highlight our farmers. They are good entrepreneurs who take responsibility for the environment and animal husbandry. It is also important that they receive attention and recognition for it. Thank you for a good debate!
i-1d5433a38697af7b-493	Mr President, I would like to John Widegren has asked me what concrete measures I intend to take to ensure that food production will increase. Widegren has also asked how I intend to make it easier for Swedish farmers to enable them to increase food production. Until 2019, the Government is investing almost half a billion SEK in some forty efforts to help achieve the goals of the food strategy. In addition, SEK 540 million has been earmarked under the Rural Development Programme for implementation during the years 2014–2020, which gives a total food billion. The efforts are described in the Government's Food Strategy Action Plan and they are realised as they are decided. The Government's action plan is valid until 2019. Implementation is in full swing and we are at a high pace of action in the three strategic areas of action of the action plan. The action plan covers, among other things, cost-effective construction in agriculture, agricultural management, the internationalisation of food companies, food research, digital government services, reduced food waste and regional efforts. Overall, these measures are the first step in the implementation of the Food Strategy. With regard to agriculture, the Government takes a broad approach to issues that are important for competitiveness with the food strategy. Many of the measures are based on the proposals made by the Competitiveness Investigation. Good governance and regulatory simplification are examples of important elements. The Government intends to continue work on simplification. In order to have an impact, the simplification work needs to be carried out at all levels that affect companies. For example, it is important that rules are appropriate so that the administration required to comply with the regulations is kept to a minimum. It is about making the rules smarter and modernising regulations based on how companies develop based on new knowledge and technology. The service, treatment and processing times of public authorities are of great importance for a competitive business environment. The government can do a lot, but not everything. To achieve the objective of increased production, the whole food chain must contribute and work in the same direction. The achievement of objectives also requires a strong commitment from future governments. Further measures will be necessary to achieve the objective of increased production by 2030. The work is far from complete. The Action Plan will be continuously complemented.
i-KC79WpzjPVD3CSVt2xL9wz	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This billion I've heard about a few times. It's great to give some extra support here and there. At all, the food strategy is very good. It's great that we've developed it. It is also incredibly good to say that we should increase our food production. But we are not increasing it by raising taxes, increasing subsidies, increasing bureaucracy and making rules difficult. I have said it a few times before in this House that over the next 40 years we will produce as much food as we have done over the last 8 000 years. This requires a substantial increase in food production. We in Sweden have the conditions for doing so in every way. There are good entrepreneurs, good climate and a will. I will come back to this with taxes. The tax on fuel, for example, is increasing and there will be an increase now after New Year again. We Moderates have said that we want to reduce taxes on agriculture. Our taxes on jobs are the second highest in green industries across Europe, according to a survey. The government is also talking about increased taxes on transport, which will affect primary producers in rural areas. They depend on transport. They don't have railways available. Net financial income for food today in Sweden amounts to minus 48 billion because we import so much. There it is possible to reverse, but we must increase our production. Increased production in Sweden means more tax revenue, more jobs, satisfied companies, strengthened welfare. When we increase our food production in Sweden it is also good for the environment. Exporting food production is not as good for the environment because of skilled Swedish farmers. Mr President, I would like to I would therefore like to ask the Government again: how does the Minister view the possibility of reducing the tax burden and the cost of employment for agriculture?
i-1d5433a38697af7b-505	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the opportunity to give my view on Swedish food production. As far as taxes are concerned, I would like to remind you that the government has implemented important reforms in the area of taxation and taxation. It is about the diesel tax, the reduction of methane gas, the reduction of the social security contribution for individual traders. I would also like to remind the honourable Member that the previous government, the Alliance Government, increased diesel tax twice and deteriorated diesel tax reduction four times. When this government took office, the repayments were raised from 90 cents to 1.70. I would like to remind the honourable Member of this. I would also like to remind you that the government has supported the dairy farmers, who were in crisis when we took office. We have made a total contribution of 533 million to the sector in the form of aid to enable the farmers to cope with the very difficult crisis they were in. It was a global crisis that hit not only Sweden and the EU but dairy farmers all over the world. The starting point for the government is that there is a great potential in food production in Sweden. It has to do with us being one of the countries with the highest food safety. We have basic conditions such as access to land and a climate that is good. We have an agriculture which, I would say, is a world leader in animal health. It is also a world leader in environmental thinking. I also know that our agriculture uses the least antibiotics in animal husbandry throughout the EU. This means that there is potential in food production. We have a very good primary production, and about 70 per cent of the raw materials used by the food industry come from Swedish primary production. I am very proud that we in this House have been able to take a joint decision on the long-term and strategic objectives up to 2030 with regard to the national food strategy. The goal of the work is to increase entrepreneurship and increase jobs in not least Swedish rural areas. I agree with Mr Widegren's reasoning and text that concrete measures are needed, and the government has concrete measures. We set aside EUR 1 billion to create a workshop and to achieve the goals that we have jointly set within the national food strategy. So far, 35 measures and SEK 350 million are under way. It has not been very long since the strategy was put through in this House, and these pieces are in full swing. It is around the strategic areas that the efforts are being made. It is about rules and conditions, about consumers and the market and about knowledge and innovation. We will continue to work, and we will intensify it even more. We shall achieve a much higher level of food production in our country.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-514	Mr President, I would like to As far as the diesel tax is concerned, Sweden is a little too far from close and competing countries. We are not right there, and that is why the Moderates in their budget want to increase the refund even further. With regard to the billion that we keep coming back to, yes, economic measures are great. But this is not what makes farmers want to increase their production. Increased production is needed, and increased production is achieved by increasing the profitability of farmers. Unfortunately, profitability is partly very poor in Swedish agriculture today. It is within this that we must do something. In the interpellation response, the Government talks about rules of the game, bureaucracy and such things. All this is very important to lift up. I hope and believe that the food strategy will bring improvements here. Farmers need long-term and clear rules of play. Depreciation in agriculture today is perhaps 20 and 30 years while in other industries it is two three years. This means that there must be a long-term perspective in everything we do. Farmers need to feel that there is long-term profitability to make these investments. There shall be consistency in the interpretation of rules. Around the EU, rules must be interpreted equally. In Sweden, for example, we have 21 county boards that interpret things differently. One farmer builds a cattle stable in Östergötland, and another farmer may build a similar stable in Småland. Both are tested, and one is approved. But the other cannot, because the county boards have interpreted the rules in different ways. We must get away from this. Mr President, I would like to There are other things that stand in the way. For example, the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate has knocked out onion growing and other production. We set higher and far too tough demands. Furthermore, the processing times of the authorities are long. The Government highlighted animal production, and I would like to come back to that. Of course we have fantastic animal production in Sweden today. We have also set aside large land areas in Sweden for animal production where we cannot get any profitability in anything else, such as grain cultivation. Instead, we can drive grass and other things through animals. For a long time and ever since we in Sweden decided to become the world's cleanest farm, we have been adapting our systems to the animals and not doing what they do in Europe: adapting the animals to the systems. This means that we have healthy animals in Sweden, and we have low antibiotic use. When I asked the Government a question a week ago, he said that the rest of Europe wanted to approach Sweden in terms of stable systems and animal health. Then another of our competitive advantages disappears, I think. It is of course great that in Europe you want healthier animals and thus get closer to Sweden. However, it is one of the competitive advantages that we have had in the past. We must then have other advantages in Swedish agriculture so that we can be ahead in some other way. We also have administrative burdens. A dairy farmer today has 600 laws and rules to follow. It's tough. I think most animal farmers would be willing to have their own clerk who deals only with administrative burdens. This, of course, is not reasonable, because there is no economy for this. Journals and cross-compliance are examples of what should be kept in a book. We need to facilitate procurement. There's a symbolic value. In a lot we are well on our way when it comes to procurement. We also need to facilitate food exports and further processing.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-526	Mr President, I would like to I would like to remind the honourable Member that the LRF Consultant does something called the Farm Barometer every year. It asks Swedish farmers very broadly how they experience the future and their opportunities. The latest one recently shows that farmers have not experienced the possibility of profitability as positive as they are at present for ten years. This is very pleasing, but we should not settle down. More needs to be done. However, I would like to say to the honourable Member: do not paint the picture too black. Pessimism breeds pessimism. I think we agree on one thing. Sweden is an import-dependent country when it comes to food. That is the case for many countries. Many, including within the Community in the EU, are dependent on imports. Through export, import and trade Swedish industry has actually developed very well, but unfortunately not in this sector. In the food sector, we have not been as successful. We have a self-sufficiency rate of just under 50%. Of course, we have a surplus of certain foods, such as cereals and edible meat, but there are many other examples where we do not have it. I agree with Mr Widegren's reasoning in the interpellation that this is not only an environmental and growth issue, but also a security policy issue. That's right, isn't it? With higher food production, we also have better security of supply. However, exports are very important for us to increase production. We can learn this from many other industries in Sweden: Where exports have become good, production has also increased. Just look at the automotive industry, the engineering industry, the forest industry and so on! It is also for this reason that the government is making this historic effort to export food. We allocate SEK 48 million for 2018 to increase food exports. It not only increases to China, but through Business Sweden we put export managers in South Korea and Japan. Through Business Sweden we also put export managers in Singapore, as a hub for Asia, as well as in Canada and the United States. We give special funds to the Swedish Food Administration and the Swedish Agriculture Agency to remove the export approval fees. These are important efforts to enable more SMEs to enter new markets. But it is also very important for primary production, because the demand for raw materials will naturally increase when exports are successful. Today, the food industry in Sweden collects 70 per cent of its raw materials from Swedish primary production. Of course it can have an effect. That is why the government is pursuing what is stated in the national food strategy on exports. This is also why we are making this historic investment in 2018 with 48 million on export initiatives around the world.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-534	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government. I have also read the Farm Barometer, and I get positive when I read it. I just don't want it to be a product of agriculture believing that a comprehensive food strategy solves all the knots. The most important thing in the food strategy is that we have the right tools to increase production. I am also positive when the Government talks about exports. I see tremendous future plans for Swedish food exports, where we have great potential. On the whole, we are probably very much in agreement, me and Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, about what is required and what we need to do, but we do not really agree on how to get there. Perhaps that debate should continue. I would like to thank you for the debate, which is extremely important, and I would like to take this opportunity to wish the Council, the President and the other staff a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. I would also like to thank you for my autumn here in Parliament. My service is coming to an end for this time. Then we will see when I have reason to come back and debate these questions again. Thank you very much. ( THE President-in-Office): Thank you very much. Thank you for your time here in Parliament, John Widegren! Merry Christmas and Happy New Year! )
i-1d5433a38697af7b-537	Mr President, I would like to I am always just as happy when this type of interpellation, which concerns Swedish food production, comes up in Parliament. Swedish food production is so important to this country. It can play a huge role in rural development and jobs in rural areas. 50% self-sufficiency – what if we increase our food production by 10%! This is about perhaps 10 000 – 15 000 jobs. And food is mainly produced in rural areas. They are rarely produced in a city. Thank you for a good debate. I would also like to wish Mr Widegren a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-539	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler has asked me why several of the government's processes affecting forestry, such as the development of a national forest programme and the issue of a review of the Species Protection Regulation, are delaying and whether I believe that the Aarhus Convention obliges Sweden to introduce increased rights of appeal in respect of certain fellings in accordance with the proposal recently made by the government's special investigators. Furthermore, Jonas Gjörtler has asked me whether I am prepared to work towards halting the stocktaking of key biotopes that is ongoing until both the concept and the inventory process have been developed, which also forest owners can consider reasonable and what effects I consider that they have failed to provide information from the Government regarding a review of the Species Protection Regulation for the forestry industry. Finally, Jonas Gjörtler has asked me how the government and I are prepared to act not only unilaterally to strengthen environmental interests but also to strengthen ownership and safeguard forestry production. All of Jacobsson Gjörtler's questions have points of contact with several of the Government's objectives regarding, for example, jobs, growth, rural development, climate, environment and nature conservation. This government has high ambitions in all these areas. I would like to emphasise that the Government's forestry policy is based on two equal objectives: the environmental objective and the production target. There is a need to develop both of these elements. Ownership is constitutionally protected and not challenged by the government. Half of the country's forests are now owned and managed by private forest owners, and forest owners are thus very important for the management of Sweden's forests. Freedom under responsibility means that the individual's ownership of the forest must be protected while the forest owner has an important part in the common responsibility to manage all the values of the forest resources. The provisions of the Species Protection Regulation(2007:845) also apply to forestry measures. The question of whether to carry out a review of the Species Protection Regulation is being addressed in the Government Office. In October, the Special Investigator submitted the Report Legal Review of Forest Protection Law (SOU 2017:81) to the Government. The report is now being prepared in the Government Office. Only then will the government take a position on what measures might be taken in relation to the report. In the 2018 budget proposal, the Government has proposed an investment in a national key biotop inventory, partly to apply developed and improved methodology in north-west Sweden, and partly to update the key biotop inventory carried out in the rest of the country. The forest should be cared for and contribute to development. In light of this, a national forest programme will be presented to enable forests to contribute to the growth of the bio-based economy. More natural forests will be protected, and conservation considerations will increase in the used forest. As well as increasing protection and environmental protection, increased production of forest raw materials is important in the transition to a bio-based society and the phasing out of fossil energy. In a growing bioeconomy, we need to ensure sustainable yield of forest raw materials that also ensure biodiversity and social values. The Government considers that the national forestry programme is relevant to this. The Government will present a national forest programme based on evidence from the forest programme's dialogue process and then prepare an action plan for implementation.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-544	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. The intervention is about forestry and the future linked to ownership issues and the concerns expressed by many forest owners in this regard. Many express the view that there is a gradual erosion of property rights. It should not be interpreted as calling into question property rights according to an explicit principle, but rather that a number of individual events and activities from authorities, government and others may contribute to feeling that you are on a sloping plane where a erosion of property rights is taking place. Although the Government delivers two pages of text in its answer, he does not manage to answer one of the five questions I asked. However, there is more opportunity to develop the answers in this House. The first question was about why certain important processes affecting forestry are taking time. I ask again: Why has work on a national forest programme been delayed? The Government writes that the Government considers it important. It is easy to agree with that. So do we. That's why the Alliance government initiated the work and set it in motion. If it is important, it should be particularly important to get the programme in place or at least to be able to present reasonable reasons for the delay. The Government will be happy to develop it. Secondly, there is the recurring question of the species protection regulation and its revision. The handling of the issue by the government is becoming increasingly farcical. The two responsible authorities, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency, stated in a letter to the government in June last year that it is necessary to review the Species Protection Regulation in order to ensure its applicability, effectiveness and legal certainty. It has now been 18 months, or 546 days, since then. The government has held at least 75 meetings where it could have taken the decision to launch the review. The only message that comes from the government and representatives of the government when asking the question is that the question is being prepared in the Government Office. I do not understand why it should be so difficult to agree to launch the review. I realise that there may be challenges in agreeing on the ultimate goal. However, launching a review requested by the two responsible national authorities should not be difficult. In addition, the European Commission calls on Member States, if they perceive problems linked to the regulatory framework at EU level on the protection of species and other matters, to review the national regulatory framework in the first place, as this is where it is estimated that shortcomings may exist. We also suspect that this is the case because in this respect Sweden differs from what it looks like in other countries. The Government, unfortunately, does not answer my fourth question about the impact of the failure on forestry. There are more questions. There is reason to return to them. The horizontal question of principle is about how the government is prepared to work to better balance environmental interests and production issues. In words, the Government mentions that the two objectives should be equivalent. Nevertheless, there are a wide range of examples of how the government is acting towards a shift in which environmental interests are given greater weight and production issues, ownership and forestry are weakened. The Government is very happy to provide some examples of measures that the Government takes or intends to take that strengthen production.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-554	Mr President, I would like to This is a very interesting interpellation that points to many small issues that belong together in a larger context. I would like to focus on two points that Jonas Gjörtler mentions in his interpellation. The first concerns key biotopes. During 2016, the number of reserve formations in Norrbotten and Västerbotten increased most throughout the country. Over 15,000 hectares were set aside. That could sound a lot. But then you should know that over 170 000 hectares are listed key biotopes. It's a major procedure. But the Swedish Forest Agency believes that there is just as much more that is safe. Of course, Sweden should have an appropriate nature protection. However, pointing out something as a key biotope does not provide a formal protection status. On the other hand, it makes felling impossible because the timber is basically unsaleable. The market doesn't want that kind of wood. Why, then, does something become a key biotope? Often this is the result of active forestry and long-term ownership, often over several generations. It is precisely ownership and stewardship that creates what is worthy of protection. Add to that that a forest that is lying fallow or just standing does not do much community benefit. If, on the other hand, we use forest one in Sweden, it binds over 80 percent of our national carbon dioxide emissions. The state should not only affirm it, but also encourage it. Mr President, I would like to With an extended rights for organisations, it has become easier for small groups to interfere in logging plans on other people's properties. In some cases these have been groups that do not even have a statute or a membership register, but have only formed themselves through social media groups. Such a development, in which everyone has the opportunity to say anything and thus drag matters on a long bench even where the land is far away from himself, is not desirable. Legal certainty for owners of agricultural and forestry land is of great importance. It is the partnership of ownership that has enabled long-term activities to develop and flourish over the past centuries. If their ownership is not ensured, there is no incentive to invest in facilities and inputs for the development of companies. No one dares to take risks if you do not know that you can reap the benefits of your work. Mr President, I would like to Ownership is fundamental. Knowing that you can dispose of what you own, use and use it, is the basis for social development in our country and in the world. It is the most effective way to create value and value. Strong ownership creates the will and security to invest. The knowledge that the labour and capital you invest will ultimately benefit you is something that motivates you. Here you should be clear that you should not paint with the blackest of colors. Sweden is still a democratic country. But we need to safeguard the property rights that ensure that people can develop and manage their assets for their own benefit, for their families and for the countryside in which they live. If we manage to protect property rights, the rule of law and freedom of trade, the future can be as successful as the time we put behind us. There is no indication of anything else.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-564	Mr President, I would like to More than 120 referrals were received for the national forestry programme. These are also very comprehensive answers. It is important to handle these referrals in a serious way in order for us to get a national forest programme where also consultation bodies should feel that they have been included. It is therefore a very comprehensive and time-consuming work that is currently taking place on these issues. We in the government want to put order in order and create the conditions for long-term sustainability in this area. As a government, we also have an obligation to look at announcements made by the Parliament which concern the issue. That job is also in this. There are a lot of issues relating to the national forestry programme that make it take time. As far as forest protection is concerned, we note that there is a very broad political anchoring of 150 000 hectares of forest to be further protected. There we are a bit on the road with about 90 000 hectares further. Where, then, does the government make concrete? We have set aside an additional 250 million to compensate landowners where the forest is protected. Today we have compensation of almost 1.5 billion annually. Do Members think it is wrong for us to replace forest owners who set aside land for the protection of their forests? I think that's right. We now allocate 12 million to laser scanning of all Swedish forests. That is something that must last for a ten-year period. The industry has also announced that they want to double that money. It is a way to improve farming methods in Swedish forests. When it comes to the Species Protection Regulation, it is correct that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency have written to the Government that there is a need to investigate the Species Protection Regulation in terms of its application, legal certainty and effectiveness. At the same time, we should remind ourselves that there are some legal cases going on. A recent case had been brought against the Bomb Walls. There are currently legal cases involving, among other things, the latrine crisis and the feather. These are things that I follow very closely and that affect the area. Whether a review will take place in the near future or whether it is further delayed is difficult to say. I am not going to underscore the fact that in the government there are two parties that may have a slightly different view of this. This was probably also the case in the previous government when four parties had slightly different views. They couldn't get things through. It took eight years, and nothing happened.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-572	Mr President, I would like to It's easy to agree that the forest is hugely important to our country – and in many different ways – should also be said. The forest is still one of our really large and important export industries. This is in the order of SEK 125 billion annually. Forests are therefore a major and important industry, and they also provide many jobs. Another reason why the forest is important is the great work on climate change that is going on, where forest raw materials can be an important basis for replacing fuels, building materials and other things to reduce our climate emissions. All of this is based on having a forestry system that works and also allowing it to work. What creates problems is uncertainty about the regulatory framework – uncertainty as to whether ownership is to be fully effective or not. If different forms of new restrictions constantly make you feel uncertain about whether you can use your forest tomorrow, in a week's time, in a month's time or in five years' time, you will not dare to make the necessary investments to make it work. Therefore, it is incredibly important to take a broad approach to this. The Alliance government started work on a forestry programme, which is now delayed and delayed. At least now I thought that the Government gave a little more information as to why this is happening. He refers to the fact that there are many referrals to be taken in and that there are also announcements from the Riksdag. I suppose it's wise to try to capture a lot of it. However, the work has been going on for several years now, and surely one should have been able to land this a little earlier. But let it go; in the spring it is said, and then we must hope that it will be all the better when it is ready and will come to the House. I appreciate the fact that the Council of State speaks clearly about species protection and recognizes what we have probably all guessed: there are two parties in the government who disagree on this issue, and that is why nothing happens. That does not mean that this stops being a problem just because we know why. This is a problem for forestry. The two responsible authorities have said that a review is needed. It is a year and a half since the request was made. The government should be freed despite its inner pangs and set in motion this review. It shouldn't be that hard. With regard to the key biotopes and the problem with them, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has presented the whole issue with merit, so I do not need to repeat all the arguments. It can only be said that there is not the broad consensus that we should have between the various interests. These are large areas that are identified as key biotopes, and now the government wants to increase the funds, and also does so in the budget, in order to speed up the key biotopes inventory even further. This is contrary to what should be done, i.e. pause the work, which the Swedish Forest Board also wanted to do a few months ago while waiting for clearer definitions to be landed around both concepts and processes in order to move forward in a way where everyone agrees. I think it is worrying that the government chooses to do this, because this is another example where the production perspective is completely exceeded. My overall question remains. Minister for Rural Development Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht is good at mentioning examples of measures taken by the government to strengthen environmental interests. He mentioned several of them here. So do I in the interpellation; I mention a lot of examples. But can the Minister for Rural Development mention a single example of measures taken by the government to strengthen the production perspective? That is what is threatened.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-578	Mr President, I would like to We currently have growth in Sweden, and that is a good thing. It depends, a little simplistic, on three things. The first is that exports to other countries are strong, the second is that we have strong public consumption and the third is that we have strong private consumption. But there are also risks, for example with exports. As far as exports to many economies are concerned, we know that these economies are rather borrowed. There are risks. Public consumption has been high as a result of large refugee reception and increased housing construction. But we know that reception is declining and that there is great uncertainty in the housing market. Private consumption has in turn been made possible by the fact that more people have had a job to go to and that they have had more money in their wallets as a result of the job tax deductions. And that's the government against. Mr President, I would like to I think there is reason to dwell a little on ownership, as Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler also does in his interpellation, and think about where growth will actually come from if we do not protect ownership. For example, in the cement industry in northern Gotland, where Europe's greenest cement factory is located, the whole activity is threatened by the government's proposal for new, large Natura 2000 sites. As far as the forests of Norrland, which we have debated here, and our 330 000 private forest owners, are concerned, the government has set off to launch as many key biotopes as possible. It puts a brake on the bio-based economy. When it comes to large companies such as SSAB and LKAB, it is clear that they are affected by the tax increases that the government has implemented by SEK 40 billion since 2014. The question is, in a way, self-evident: Where will growth actually come from when property rights are eliminated? Incidentally, I would like to wish you a Merry Christmas and hope that the Minister will enjoy much Swedish on the Christmas table.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-583	Mr President, I would like to I was not going to talk about economics, but I am going to have to do something bad after Mrs Skalberg Karlsson's speech. There was a government that lowered taxes and reduced taxes, and it was only minus and minus. There were minus 60 billion when we first came. Now there is a plus 80 billion, and you can amortise 40 billion and invest 40 billion. It's a fantastic development. As far as measures are concerned, I mentioned laser scanning, where the industry wants to duplicate the funding that the government is going in with. This is seen as an extremely important part of increasing production. There is extensive technology development and research in which the state is involved with the industry, very close to the industry development. This also stimulates production. There is a lot going on in Swedish forests, and a lot is happening there. Sweden has been a party to the Aarhus Convention since 2005. The Convention is also part of the EU legal order. We cannot hide the fact that conditions are such. The investigation that exists does not suggest that a notification of felling should be possible to appeal, but what the investigation proposes is that it is in connection with permits for mountain forest and noble leaf forest that this possibility should be available. The question is left to the government from the investigation, and it is being prepared within the Government Office. It's too soon to tell us exactly where it's going to end up. The government has ambitious targets for the key biotopes in terms of biodiversity and the protection of forests. It is therefore also extremely important that the inventories are of high quality and based on an appropriate knowledge base. It is extremely important for them to have an acceptance of the industry. Then the key biotopes vary greatly across the country, and they are different in nature. It is important that the inventories make boundaries that are transparent. Objectivity and predictability shall be included. It is very important to get acceptance for this. We are allocating additional funds to protect it, and that is something we are doing to prevent landowners from getting caught up in. As far as the forest is concerned, it is just as Mr Gjörtler says: it is extremely important for Swedish exports. It generates between 120 billion and 125 billion annually in export income, directly employing about 100,000 people and indirectly 200 000 people. The forest also has many other values. It has social values. You can go out into a forest and hunt, pick mushrooms and pick berries. It also has great value in terms of the development of the tourism industry. Natural tourism is actually increasing dramatically in the country. It's an important part. We are also making a tax cut there. In the case of nature guidance, VAT is reduced from 25 % to 6 %. There's a lot going on. I just want to remind Members of that.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-589	Mr President, I would like to Yes, that the forest contributes great values, we are in complete agreement. There are social, environmental and production values. The issue highlighted in this interpellation debate and to which I would like to put my finger relates to the values that can be assessed are threatened in some way and what problems and effects this can lead to in the future. This is particularly true of what is linked to production. We can start with the key biotopes. It's still a pretty big change. When this was started, it was about a small delineated part. It would be the gold grains, i.e. the finest and best areas. It was perhaps a few percent in a defined geographical area. Now we see how it spreads over much larger areas. Moreover, the government spends a great deal of money on expanding this. Of course it creates problems. Somewhere there is a contradiction in relation to production. Then there is the question of the right of appeal and the Aarhus Convention. No, in fact, my question did not concern the type of proposal that the government might put forward at the end of the consultation round. I understand that the Government may not want or be able to answer this and now. The question was precisely about the Århus regulation and what obligations the Government and Government consider it to mean for Sweden. I'd be happy to come back to that. It becomes obvious, I think, that it is very easy for the Minister for Rural Development to give many examples of measures taken by the government to strengthen the environmental interest. But when you ask for examples of measures that strengthen the ownership perspective and production, it is very thin. There was an example about laser scanning. It is perhaps about SEK 12 million, after the tax has been increased by SEK 40 billion. Several hundred million dollars are spent in increased resources for key biotop inventories, for example. It is very clear that it is a list in how the government works with this, to the detriment of production.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-594	Mr President, I would like to Let me emphasise once again that ownership of forests is constitutionally protected and undisputed by the government. It's constitutionally protected. I gave some examples of where we are going in on production. I mentioned laser scanning. I mentioned technology development and research, where the state is going in with a significant amount to promote production. Perhaps I should like to remind you that the diesel tax reduction that the government improved from 90 øre to 170 øre also benefited from forest production. It's important to remember that. We have the two equal objectives. There is certainly a need to develop those objectives. We will also do so when we put forward a proposal for a national forestry programme. Then let us remember that it is very important that we have order in this area and that it is a long-term policy on these issues. The green gold is a well-being engine and means a great deal to our welfare in the country, both historically and right now, but also in the future. That is why this must be dealt with very wisely and seriously. It might take time. What's good sometimes has to take time. Thank you for a good debate!
i-1d5433a38697af7b-599	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Gjörtler has asked me in what way I and the government intend to act in order to increase knowledge of the situation and improve the food supply situation in the event of a serious crisis and whether I and the government believe that there is a need for a collective responsibility for these issues in, for example, someone for the purpose appropriate authority and, if so, which one. In line with the defence policy orientation for the period 2016 – 2020, work on coherent civil defence planning has resumed. In January 2017, the Government launched a national security strategy that sets out the framework and direction for the work needed to protect Sweden's security, both within and between different policy areas. Access to drinking water and food is identified in the strategy as a national interest. Food security depends on robust supply systems for energy, transport and IT communications, among other things. In order to strengthen the ability of guarding authorities and other actors in civil defence, the Government proposes in the 2018 Budget Bill that permanent funds be added, which for the remainder of the current defence focus period, 2018 – 2020, represents a total of SEK 1.3 billion. The funds will be provided to municipalities, county councils, county boards, other monitoring authorities and voluntary defence organisations. The Finnish Food Authority and the National Agriculture Agency are a couple of the authorities that are allocated funds to strengthen civil defence planning. The reinforcements create the conditions for pursuing the orientations set out in the defence policy proposal. The basis for civil defence is the long-standing work of the country's authorities on society's emergency preparedness. Food security is one of the priority social functions of civil defence. The resumption of civil defence planning has recently begun, involving central, regional and local authorities and also private actors. Since 2010, the Finnish Food Authority has been responsible for national coordination in relation to food security crisis and preparedness planning in the post-primary production chain. Since then, in collaboration with other relevant authorities, the Agency has built up knowledge in this area. In 2016, the Swedish Food Safety Agency established a private-public consultation group to gather stakeholders for further work. Another important part of the government's policy is the food strategy and the overall goal of increasing total food production in Sweden. Increased food production in Sweden leads to better conditions for a good national supply readiness both in crisis and under increased preparedness and then ultimately in war. The Defence Committee will present its first interim report these days. The Defence Committee's mission includes leaving a focus on civil defence and taking into account and analysing ambition levels for various preparedness measures, including on supply issues. In conclusion, the state of knowledge and food security planning in the new security policy is under construction. The strong reinforcement of resources that the Government, with the support of the Defence Group, intends to strengthen the planning work is of great importance for the continued work. The defense committee's assessments will be an important starting point for the government in the further planning of civil defence.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-606	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The background to this interpellation is that the security situation has deteriorated in our surrounding world for a long number of years. These are events that are beyond our control, and this has made defence and security issues increasingly high on the agenda in the Swedish debate. Then, as a letter in the mail, there are other issues relating to our safety and how we can cope in the event of a more severe crisis, such as food security. Here we are forced to note that it is very worrying that the Swedish competitiveness of Swedish food production has for several decades been eroded so strongly that we in Sweden actually only produce about half of the food consumed here. We have touched on this a little before, inter alia linked to the food strategy. There we now have a common and broad objective of increasing food production, which is a positive one. Today, Swedish food security is very dependent on imported food. Should we be cut off or encounter some kind of interruption, several foods become relatively fast scarce. In this context, however, I would like to emphasise that it should not be seen as a problem if we export more food, because we can increase our production and also increase our exports, but it still helps to reduce our vulnerability in the event of a crisis. In this situation, raw materials and products that would otherwise have been exported can be used in Sweden. Another aspect of the matter is the availability of these foods, such as fuel. We must have proper transport in order for food to come out. However, fuels are needed not only in order to transport the finished foodstuffs but also in primary production, for example in order to operate tractors and other tools. Here too, therefore, it is important to have a comprehensive grasp of what our vulnerability in this area looks like. We simply need a better overview of the security situation, and there is also a need for a clear strategy on how to deal with the issues in the future. One can interpret the Government's response, I think, as the Government believes that there is today a collective responsibility for the matter in the Food Authority, which, as mentioned in the answer, has had a responsibility since 2010 at least for the ranks that lag behind primary production, i.e. processing after the agricultural section itself. My question is whether this is right, wise and sufficient. The Swedish Food Authority is of course an important player, but as I have already mentioned, the issue is very multifaceted. It is partly about transport, partly about primary production, and that is not the responsibility of the Finnish Food Authority today. In primary production there is dependence on inputs not only in the form of fuel but also in the form of protein feed and fertilizers, for example. All these different parts of the food chain must be clearly understood. I therefore hope that the Government will be able to develop its response a little. I am also very much in favour of the mission of the Defence Committee in this and hope that they can help to disperse some clouds and make proposals that will enable us to achieve greater security in this area.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-616	Madam President, I would like I share Mr Gjörtler's view that exports are not negative. Increased exports drive our production capacity and ensure better preparedness in worse times. I also share the view that we are dependent on many other inputs to manage this. It is not just about fuel but also about manure, seeds and more. This is not enough today, and so it will be very interesting to see the Defence Committee's report and how you look at these issues. I am also confident that when we have achieved the overall goal of the food strategy and increased our production, Sweden will be much more robust. We need to increase our level of self-sufficiency in peacetime in order to have a better capacity even in times of crisis. There are many social functions that affect robustness, which is why we need to work broadly. The Finnish Food Authority has a central role in the work on food security issues, and the Authority has also launched a dialogue with the private stakeholders. This work will continue to develop, because private actors are an important part of this. Without them, I don't think we can manage to get a robustness in the system. The Swedish Food Authority and other authorities have developed a knowledge base on food security that I think can play a major role in moving forward in this work. Guidance has also been developed for regional actors, because food preparedness is not only managed centrally but must be available throughout the country. Exercises have also been carried out. Among other things, an exercise has been conducted on Gotland where the scenario was no food transport and the impact it has. Of course, such an exercise can also benefit other regions. The Swedish Board of Agriculture also has a task to look at the issues of supply, especially with regard to knowledge of the trade in agricultural products, where it is the authority at the forefront of this. Access to food is fundamental for all of us, and we all have our own responsibility. It is therefore important that we have good information about these elements. The 2018 budget proposal points, among other things, to food security as a priority area in the contingency planning that needs to be deepened. I look forward to the Defence Committee's report before we can develop more how we proceed.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-625	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Rural Development describes the role of various actors and takes a number of examples from the Swedish Food Administration and the Swedish Agriculture Agency. It is only possible to agree that these players have a very important role to play. They are essential players when it comes to building a functioning food security. My question does not really apply to that. It is clear that both the Swedish Food Administration and the Swedish Agriculture Agency as well as many other actors have a responsibility and need to do different things to make the whole puzzle work. But the crux of the matter is, I think, the overall responsibility, and it is this overall responsibility that I think we have been lacking in Sweden for quite some time. After the Second World War and well into the 1990s they had a clearer, collected grip on this. Now it is not about building up or doing things the way they did then, but I think that in order to get a proper overview you need to have an authority that is responsible for the entire food supply and how we are going to deal with it in the event of a crisis. Both the Swedish Food Administration and the Swedish Agriculture Agency, as well as other actors, need to be involved in some form of preparation or work on how this is done. However, I believe that responsibility needs to be put together somewhere, and it is not at all certain that it should be on any of these units, but perhaps there are other authorities that would be better sent to deal with this. The pure production issues are handled with advantage by the Swedish Board of Agriculture, the Swedish Food Administration and so on. So there are distribution and storage issues, which may seem banal or simple. But they are far from it; on the contrary, these questions are a major challenge. In the past, we had large emergency stocks built up. We do not have that today, and not least when it comes to our major cities, this becomes a problem very quickly. There are figures that indicate that if we were to be cut off from the outside world, the larger cities would be without food within a few days or perhaps within a week – at best. It's very serious. People probably do not know either that fact or that you are expected to have food at home so that you can manage for 72 hours without collecting anything from outside. It is also a responsibility that I think we need to get into this overall approach: to communicate more clearly to the citizens of Sweden what is expected of them and to be able to live up to the 72-hour rule. The point, then, is not to build up new emergency stocks and special storage facilities as we did in the past. I do not think anyone is in favour of this, but it is possible to solve this in other ways, for example through stockpiling in existing stores. Through a clearly integrated approach, we can give a mission to the private actors who are already out there – to the trade – to manage stockholding. This certainly requires some kind of regulatory change and perhaps some kind of financial compensation if you are to stand with goods that you would not otherwise store, but it is probably very much cheaper and more efficient than building up separate warehouses from government sources. Above all, what I call for and hope that the Government will take with it is the need for a comprehensive approach to the whole package of issues relating to primary production, food processing, distribution, storage, trade, that is, the whole kit.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-635	Madam President, I would like I am not prepared today to point out any authority that would have a comprehensive grasp of this. I do not think anyone is prepared to do so today, but I think that we must all wait for the defence committee's interim report which will address these issues, among other things. Mr Gjörtler raises the issue of the vulnerability of major cities. We should not forget that Sweden is an elongated and geographically large country, which makes communications an extremely important part of ensuring food readiness. There's got to be good communications. Not only will cities face major problems in a crisis situation, but there are also many other places where there is a high risk. Food must reach the whole country. This is not something the Swedish Food Administration can accomplish on its own. I also believe that private actors, together with the authorities, are extremely important. We must emphasise this when we are working on these regional issues. Here the county administrative boards have an important responsibility to work on these issues. There is every reason to come back to the questions later on after the new year has begun and when we have been able to look at what the Defence Committee says in its interim report.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-639	Madam President, I would like It sounds like we are reasonably agreed on the importance of tying a broad grip and capturing the whole of the problems. It is clear and obvious that the challenges are different for the larger cities and for sparsely populated areas, but we agree that they exist. It is easy to agree with the Government that we should wait for the Defence Committee's proposal. It is expected to come shortly, and we hope that there will be a concerted approach on their part. I shall not extend the debate further. Instead, I shall end by wishing the Government, the President and the others a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-642	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the opportunity to highlight this very important issue. It is very important to our country. We agree on most issues, and it is important not to get caught up in the solutions that existed before. There are some debaters who usually refer to the '40s, but I do not believe that the solutions are there. We must start from the world we live in today. Madam President, I would like Work has begun, but there is still much to be done. Thanks to the agreement in the defence group, we can now strengthen and rebuild civil defence. I also think the Moderates are an important party to the settlement. I appreciate that very much. Thank you for a good debate! I would like to wish both the honourable Member and the President a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-646	Madam President, I would like Erik Bengtzboe has asked me when I intend to make a proposal for a ten-year primary school in accordance with Parliament's announcements so that our students will have more time together with their teachers in primary school. In previous interpellation responses on 14 November, I have informed of the government's position on this issue. The Government believes that a school start at the age of six can and should be implemented without drastic changes in the basic structure of the school system. The comprehensive school inquiry's proposal for a compulsory preschool class (SOU 2015:81) was also supported by the consultation opinion. The government makes the bill Starting school at the age of six (prop. 2017/ 18:9) the assessment that the main purpose of Parliament's announcements of a ten-year primary school, taking into account the proposals in the bill and other important reforms, is met. In its report of 9 November 2017, the Parliament's Committee on Education and Training (BET. 2017/ 18:UbU7) incorporated into the proposals and assessments made by the government in the bill, among other things that the important thing is that the previous learning becomes equal and that all students develop as far as possible. The committee stresses that the pace of change in schools has been high for a relatively long time and that changes in the school sector must be made in a way that is discernible in order to give principals and staff a reasonable amount of peace of mind. The committee shares the government's view that the preschool class has an important role in the school system, but it is important that the preschool class's educational mission is also significantly strengthened. The committee notes that the government has initiated and implemented several reforms to this end and that there is ongoing work on competence development for the staff based on the strengthened mission of the preschool class. Against this background, the committee has supported the Government's proposal without announcements. The Parliament approved the committee's proposal for a parliamentary decision on 15 November.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-649	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for joining us in Parliament, and thank you for your answer. We have seen in recent weeks, and really in the past year, how international comparisons from Timss, PISA, Pirl and so on show that the focus of knowledge and investment in teachers' skills development and career paths pays off. The development we have seen where Swedish students for decades have lost in school results is hopefully something that we have now managed to reverse. At least we have slowed down the development that has taken place. It is not a question of political reform; it is ultimately a question of the work that teachers and students put into the classroom. There is no doubt that political wills, decisions and conditions create the basis for teachers to deliver. A lot of teaching time, early support and skilled teachers, says itself, and also says international research, is extremely important in delivering good results. We know that, and that is something to be noted with pride. It would be sad if it were the opposite way, namely that students learn as much whether they go to school or not or whether they have teachers or not. The Moderates and the Alliance are of the opinion that we need to continue investing in more reforms that strengthen learning. An important piece of the puzzle would be to make sure that the preschool class, which is today an isolated island in the school system, instead becomes part of primary school. There are several reasons. Today, 98 per cent of Sweden's pupils are in preschool class. With the proposal that the government has implemented together with the Swedish Democrats, preschool class will be mandatory. 100% of the students will be in preschool class. This means that all students are gathered, and we thus miss the chance to put more emphasis on learning and learning for the six-year-olds than we could do. We know today that preschool classes are characterised by an uneven quality. There are preschools that deliver extremely good quality, and we see long-lasting effects on students' learning. They spread throughout the comprehensive school system. Secondary and secondary school teachers can testify to the fact that they see the difference between pupils who have been in different preschool classes. However, there are also preschool classes that are of significantly lower quality. It is simply a fragmented and unequal system that does not contribute to the equivalence of schools today. In addition, we have modern international and Swedish research – above all the Swedish is interesting – which states that the preschool class with its isolated form contributes to two transitions: first from preschool to preschool class and then from preschool class to school. Students testify themselves, although they are as young as seven eight years old, that they feel like they can start school twice. It is completely unnecessary, and it creates a mass of barriers and unnecessary handovers that we do not need to have. Instead, if we made the preschool class part of primary school, we would avoid these transitions. We could use the preschool class's pedagogy through primary school. We could link up with more learning and ensure that the support measures to which it is entitled through the School Act would already apply in the preschool class. It is very possible that the Minister claims that the announcements from the Riksdag are now handled, but that the Swedish Democrats have been tricked into making the preschool class mandatory does not mean that the Alliance has changed its mind. We will continue to fight for a more equivalent preschool class that is part of primary school.
i-2eUoNAVab8W6BFVJp3pUct	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Erik Bengtzboe, for the post and the interpellation! For the record, I would like to be careful to say that the government has not fooled anyone, but in a bill to Parliament has described how it has dealt with the announcements and the direction of will that exists. It is Parliament's handling of what I base my answer on. I have full respect for the fact that the Alliance continues to pursue its line. I was just going to complicate the image Erik Bengtzboe gives something. We share the view that we are currently lacking in equivalence even in the preschool class. It is a problem that is common throughout the Swedish school system that we have increased segregation and increased diversity. In the case of the preschool class, it can be described as that in some places the preschool class is today an isolated island alongside the joint development work at school and alongside a job in order to get well from preschool and get a good start in the compulsory school system. Elsewhere, the preschool class functions as a good bridge between the preschool's more group-oriented playful pedagogy and the comprehensive school's more knowledge-oriented or rather knowledge-based pedagogy. It is a good bridge that helps the student to take the steps that the student needs to take and gives the student a good start. This has also been evaluated on a number of occasions. The largest state investigation in this area was set up by my predecessor and was given by the SOU name The right information in the right place at the right time. It concluded that according to the research, a school start with more formalized school hours and larger groups, which would mean having primary school for six-year-olds as well, would not automatically help the results. What can help the results, however, is to ensure that the start is equal and good for everyone and starts to put the knowledge focus that continues through primary school. Then how do we work to make it that way? Yes, some are of course mandatory. This affects the percentages mentioned by Erik Bengtzboe who today do not attend the preschool class, but it also affects the entire organisation. What for every six-year-old is the start of school should also be the start of school for each principal and principal. The preschool class should not come apart from the organisation or development of the school. The second is that we have changed the curriculum – it already applies for the current academic year – so that the preschool class today, unlike in the past, has clear writings in the curriculum. It is clear what goals the preschool class will achieve, such as how the preschool class will help with reading and the beginning of mathematics, science and the other subjects that continue in primary school. It is a step forward in terms of equivalence and the possibility of evaluating the pre-school class. A third part deals with investment, development and support. As far as investments are concerned, we are doing so with the support of the Riksdag, which is recognised in all the various budget options submitted to Parliament, large government investments in more employees in preschool, primary and secondary schools. This is about 2.8 billion annually or, according to the latest follow-up, about 4 000 people employed in the early years using state resources. This, of course, increases equivalence, especially since at the same time we are weighting this in such a way that more resources are allocated to those schools and preschool classes where the need is greatest. When it comes to development, we ensure that the teachers of the preschool class, both primary and pre-school teachers, have the opportunity to take part in the training efforts that are being made. With regard to support, it is important that what is written in the school law today, namely that pupils in the preschool class are also entitled to support, become a reality for every student in need of it in each preschool class throughout the country.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-669	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. It's a little fascinating to hear how the Government argues in its thinking that the preschool class should be compulsory and that the changes that the Government describes in terms of curriculum – here there have been updates, and it is discussed to make more updates to strengthen knowledge learning, focus on reading-writing-counting and assessment already in the preschool class – while arguing that it should not be part of primary school. When you want to see more knowledge learning, when you want to see a curriculum for the preschool class that is becoming more and more like the primary school, you should reasonably take the step fully and let the preschool class become part of the primary school that you can keep up with all the way. Preschool class pedagogy works well; you shouldn't put that under control. But it is limited to a single year, which becomes blunt for many students. It is not necessarily the case that one's degree of maturity fits exactly with the date of birth. If the preschool class were part of comprehensive school, there could be a more flexible transition in pedagogy. You could have the teachers of the preschool class all the way into the new primary school, which in such a situation would be four years old. We could thus strengthen knowledge learning, read-write-counting and assessment without fragmenting the school system with having different curricula. You could work this into the primary school curriculum. That is exactly how the Government describes it: the preschool class is today very uneven in its quality, and we know that it does not contribute to the equivalence of the school system. But even where the preschool class works in the best way, where it delivers good quality and works as the bridge it was supposed to be since it was introduced almost 30 years ago, where it is the transition from preschool into school – even there it means two school starts for the student. It becomes a shift when you turn six and then another shift when you turn seven, which is quite rapid changes for a young person. We also know from the research that changing the school form several times does not help students feel that they can start school and thus maximize their knowledge acquisition. It is absolutely the case, Madam President, that Parliament has worked a lot on targeted state subsidies in recent years. The alliance government did so; so has the red-green government. It is excellent that we can maintain high teacher density in school and get more adults into school. The teacher density in Sweden remains high despite increasing pressure on the school and we get more students, both because more children are born and because more immigrants are born. This is important, and we need more adults to relieve teachers of their duties. At the same time, we should humbly note that the targeted state subsidies have received a lot of criticism. In fact, we do not fully know that the money really ends up where it is most needed. Although these efforts are fun to decide on and are laudable, I think that both in our future policy and in the reasoning in this House we need to think about how we actually work with targeted state subsidies. The comprehensive school inquiry, which is the basis for the reform to make the preschool class mandatory that the government has now carried out with the support of the Swedish Democrats, had as its mission to review how the preschool class would become part of primary school. But the government chose to finish that mission, so the investigation never finished looking at it. Thus it is clear that the basis for doing so is limited.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-679	Madam President, I would like Erik Bengtzboe and also the Minister have said many good things here. I was just going to supplement, especially with an example of how differences between pre-school and pre-school classes can manifest themselves. The National Agency for Education has shown that in some preschools eight out of ten preschool teachers are qualified. In others, the figures are as low as two out of ten of the staff who are preschool teachers. The education and knowledge that our preschool teachers have, of course, affect the ability to teach and help children to develop when it comes to writing, reading and counting, and to make the assessment, and to see that a student has special needs and needs special support. Especially in the case of a small child, it may be particularly difficult to see whether there is a need for extra support linked to the ability to read and write, or whether the child will mature in a few months' time so that it resolves itself. If you do not have the specific knowledge and can see this, it is easy to postpone it and let the months pass. This is also something we know that Swedish school has historically had and still has difficulty with – providing support early. We postpone it and let time pass instead. On this theme, I therefore have two specific questions. The first is if it would not be better for us to ensure that all teachers and all other staff working with our children, from being in preschool class, get the knowledge needed to follow the children, make the assessments and provide special support. The second is about how it is good that today there is a difference in the right to support you have as a student depending on whether you are a year younger and are in preschool class or a year older and go to school. Should not the right to support actually be the same?
i-1d5433a38697af7b-684	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Erik Bengtzboe and Ida Drougge! For the record and for those who want to be able to follow this discussion, since the directives for the investigation are mentioned, I would like to point out that I and the government split the directives given by the previous government to the comprehensive school inquiry. The comprehensive school inquiry continues to look at organisational issues. It also included the possibility of making the preschool class part of comprehensive school. The educational issues, which Erik Bengtzboe called for, were moved to another study, which was led by Ulf Fredriksson and has also left his report, which we have moved on with. So the issues that were removed from one directive were added to the other. I would like to thank you for your speeches. I think they clearly show how much we agree with each other, but also that there are some things where we do not agree. One such thing is about preschool pedagogy in relation to six-year-olds. I see a value in the meeting between preschool and comprehensive school pedagogy that takes place in the preschool class, when it is well organised on the basis of a curriculum that is now clear. I see that there is a point in that preschool pedagogy, which is adapted even to children in their six-year-olds, can have an impact on the activities aimed at six-year-olds. This does not mean that the organisation of the preschool class is different from today – i.e. that the preschool class is organisationally in practice part of primary school and is under the responsibility of a primary school director. This is one of the reasons why it has been possible to make the preschool class compulsory: It becomes clearer to the headmaster that he is responsible for compulsory schooling from the age of six, that the teachers responsible for the school should have the same opportunities for further training and development in the profession and that he should take advantage of the opportunities for organizational gains that exist in, for example, having a primary teacher working in the preschool class follow the students up to the fourth grade. But that means that I think preschool teachers should continue to be qualified to teach six-year-olds and that the meeting that can take place between preschool teachers and primary teachers is good. Ida Drougge asks a specific question as to what competence in assessment a teacher working with six-year-olds should have. There I agree: The teacher who works with six-year-olds should have the competence to follow reading and writing or mathematical learning, for example. That's good. However, it is not so simple that this can be divided into the fact that preschool teachers lack that competence while primary teachers have it. In practice, instead, this is about having a teacher's education. A preschool teacher who is training today receives a lot of education in reading and writing and mathematical learning, although the quality of the education can, of course, be strengthened. The same is true of a basic teacher who is being trained today. On the other hand, primary teachers and preschool teachers who have been trained in some previous teacher education systems have lacked that type of education. This is why it is important to develop further training and skills, which should be directed at both preschool teachers and primary teachers in the preschool class. This is also happening. The right to support is legally the same for the preschool class and comprehensive school. On the other hand, we see that there is reason to tighten up the regulatory framework, for example by introducing a mandatory assessment of pupils' knowledge already in the preschool class, which would be a natural consequence of the pre-school class becoming mandatory now. Such a proposal has been made. Finally, as Erik Bengtzboe states, the density of teachers is something we should be proud of. Although the number of children is increasing significantly – more than we have seen in modern times, especially because more children are born in Sweden – we manage to maintain the teacher density and even increase it slightly. This is due to large investments, for which I am pleased that there is broad political support. They shall be implemented in such a way that they reach all. Low school money is one of the government subsidies that succeed in this.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-693	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President-in-Office and Mr Drougge. I think we can all agree that making the preschool class compulsory is a step in the right direction. This enables, just as the Government is also concerned, that you can work more with assessment, mapping, language learning and early mathematics learning and give all students the early start that we know they need and which is extremely important, not least for the compensatory mission. This makes a big difference for students who come from different backgrounds. We know that those students who come from socio-economically and academically strong homes often bring this with them already into the preschool class while some others do not. This is, I mean, an argument and only one step towards making the preschool class part of primary school. If it is now to be compulsory and contain all these elements, which are in reality not only heating but also part of the primary school's mission, it is also much better to gather under the same organisation. I share the Government's view that the meeting between pre-school and comprehensive school pedagogy should take place in that situation, but I believe that this can be done within the framework of comprehensive school. This will give you greater flexibility, and it will be something that can go all the way. This would certainly require higher ambitions on the part of the Government and the Swedish Parliament in terms of developing the skills of many teachers. It is therefore sad that this was removed from the comprehensive school inquiry. Had we had all the evidence at the same time, we would have been able to take a stand on the competence development of those teachers who lack the competence to follow all the way, or those primary school teachers who need to complete their education in order to be able to follow all the way into goal. I am convinced that this is needed to raise the ambitions of Swedish schools. Unfortunately, the obligation risks being only a long break before we get to where we think we want to go.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-698	Madam President, I would like During this debate, the Minister has repeatedly stated that the preschool class is an important bridge between preschool and school. I wonder, then, specifically: how can it be an important bridge when it looks like it does in many preschools today and with the teacher's IDs we have today? You first change teachers and often also the school environment when you are five or six years old and start in the preschool class and then do the same thing again when you are six or seven years old and start school. How does it become an important bridge? Does it not just increase the risk that knowledge of the child falls between the chairs and that young children become anxious and stressed about changing the environment and getting new adults around them?
i-RWiSE6LPqxY3jGAJaRDbLR	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Erik Bengtzboe and Ida Drougge, for a good discussion about the development of Swedish preschool class! I think it is an important step that we are now taking by ensuring that the preschool class becomes compulsory, which means that all six-year-olds start in a compulsory school and in that way get an equal school start. I think the next step is to ensure that the content of the school, both in preschool class and primary school and further in upper secondary school, is equal. An opportunity for this is given by the organisation being good. Organizing is the best thing that the preschool class is organisationally close to primary school, so that there is a natural transition between the preschool class and first grade, so that knowledge is not lost. That's how it works in good preschool classes. Most of the examples we have in the country look like that, for example because the preschool class is responsible under the headmaster of a primary school. That's how you organize it. By making it mandatory, it also becomes much clearer to the Vice-Chancellor that it must not be the case that the preschool class is lost in development work and the like. In the same way, the changes in the curriculum mean that we can follow more clearly the content of the preschool class but – and this is important to me and the government – that the meeting between preschool pedagogy and comprehensive school pedagogy is maintained and that preschool teachers continue to be qualified to teach also six-year-olds. Pre-school teachers today have an academic education to teach young children, such as six-year-olds, and I do not see it as a justification for transforming all pre-school teachers into another category of teachers because they were just pre-school teachers. On the other hand, it is important that all teachers receive continuous development, especially those who have completed pre-school or basic teacher training at an earlier stage, when there was not enough focus on, for example, reading and writing. It is important that they receive training and skills development in order to have those tools in their meetings with students. There are resources in the budget for how this is to be organised. We'll look further at how it's going to get out.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-703	Madam President, I would like Erik Bengtzboe has asked me what I intend to do to increase students' teaching time and whether the government will proceed with the School Commission's proposal to increase teaching time in the long term. According to the comprehensive school hour plan, the total teaching time is at least 6,890 hours for each pupil. The Riksdag has decided in accordance with the Government proposal School start at the age of six, prop. 2017/ 18:9, which we have recently discussed, and the preschool class will thus become mandatory from the next autumn semester. Since the preschool class comprises at least 525 hours of teaching in a school year, this means a significant increase in the number of hours of teaching for pupils in compulsory school forms. The teaching time in the subject of mathematics has been increased by a total of 225 hours in 2013 and 2016. In addition, in the memorandum A staged hour plan in comprehensive school and related matters, it has been suggested that the number of teaching hours in mathematics should be increased by another 105 hours in grades 7 to 9. The Government also intends to increase teaching time in sports and health in comprehensive schools by 100 hours from autumn 2019. These hours are redistributed from the student's choice, as there are shortcomings in the school's handling of the student's election and a large majority of principals and principals have expressed the desire to reduce the teaching time for the student's election. Evaluations show that many students do not receive the teaching time to which they are entitled. The school commission, like the government, considers that a staged hourly plan needs to be introduced to ensure that all pupils receive the teaching time to which they are entitled and thus contribute to a more equal school. On this one can read in the School Commission's final report, SOU 2017:35. The government has therefore decided on a bill for a staged hour plan in comprehensive school, prop. 2016/ 17:143, and the Riksdag has decided in accordance with the bill. The new provisions will enter into force on 1 July 2018. As part of the work to strengthen the results of newly arrived pupils, a pilot project with increased teaching time in Swedish or Swedish as a second language for newly arrived pupils in comprehensive school has been ongoing since 2013. The Government believes that the initiative should be extended to next year. The School Commission rightly points out that there is evidence that more teacher-led teaching time produces positive educational results. According to the School Commission, this applies in particular to subjects where access to or access to parental support on their own is limited. The Swedish school will equalise socio-economic differences and give all people the opportunity to develop to their full potential. Giving students the opportunity to help with homework and other school work outside regular teaching hours is an important step towards greater equality. In order to stimulate more principals to offer help with homework or other school work, in 2016, the Government strengthened the initiative with a state grant for homework aid to promote the opportunity for students to receive support with homework or other school work outside the regular teaching period. Schools' interest in offering homework help is high and increasing. This year, the National Board of Education is paying out a total of SEK 363 million in grants to schools that provide homework help. The Swedish National Agency for Education also pays SEK 20 million to non-profit organizations that offer homework help. The initiative enables homework help to a total of 460,000 students. In accordance with the Government's proposal, Parliament has an obligation to offer praise school, prop. 2016/ 17:156, decided on an obligation for principals to offer holiday school to certain pupils in comprehensive school grades 8 and 9. The introduction of such an obligation creates a higher degree of equality and ensures that those students who need it are offered the opportunity for more education. These are some measures that the government has taken and intends to take to secure and extend students' teaching time. Teaching time is important, but as I have already mentioned, research points to the teacher's teaching skills as the single most important factor for students' knowledge acquisition and results. Here is the time for preparation of crucial importance. That is why it is of course also important that some 20 000 more people, converted into full-time jobs, have been employed in the school system since the academic year 2014/ 15, including through the Government's efforts at, for example, more employees in pre-school and primary schools.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-710	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Without a doubt, teaching time is crucial for us to achieve good results in Swedish schools. Being in school and getting time together with a qualified and skilled teacher is the foundation of the teaching in the structure that we have in Sweden. It is this approach that I think is superior to conveying knowledge, namely that there is a skilled teacher who can teach you and guide you, so that you are not responsible for your own teaching. The focus on homework and holiday school is absolutely positive. This is also something that the Alliance has proposed and started to implement in the last parliamentary term. But it does not compensate for a lack of teaching time. The school commission also notes that more teaching time drives quality forward and that there is a link between how much teaching time you have and how much knowledge you get as a student. Actually, you don't have to go beyond yourself to realize that it's true. What you practice for two hours gets you better than what you practice for an hour. If we stand here and debate for two hours, we will surely be wiser than if we debate for an hour. It is good that the government is now carrying out a couple of reforms where we are strengthening teaching time in Sweden. I am pleased and proud that the Alliance has also managed to push the government in front of it. The extension of the teaching period in mathematics has been decided by the Riksdag a couple of times. It's finally coming. The same applies to the expansion of sports education, which the government has previously argued against but which is now entering the hourly plan until 2019. Hopefully, the next step is that we also succeed in convincing the government that the total teaching time actually needs to be greatly increased. We know that there is a connection between teaching time and results. We also know that Sweden has less teaching time than other countries, in fact quite a lot less than comparable countries. The Government notes that when the preschool class now becomes part of the comprehensive school, the number of hours there is increased by just over 500. This is absolutely positive, but it means that we are still a few hundred hours below the OECD average. Since the preschool class has less teaching time per day, the average teaching time falls from 754 hours per year to 742 hours per year, but we get another year. This compares with the fact that in France there are 932 hours of teaching per year and in Denmark more than 1 000 hours of teaching per year. There are quite large differences between the Swedish education system. A Danish student thus goes 30 percent more to school than a Swedish student. Not only do I find it astounding that we have managed to get so far in Sweden that we are so far behind even our neighbours, but it is also amazing that we are in an almost arrogant way – and this is not a criticism of the Government, but it applies on a broad scale – that we should be able to deliver as good results as other OECD countries despite much less teaching time. If we expect good results from our students – and we know that the research says we should have high expectations – it is also reasonable that teachers, school leaders, students and parents have high expectations of Swedish politics. If we have high ambitions, we must also invest considerably more in teaching time. The Moderates propose an hour more per day in primary school, and it would be commendable if the government wanted to follow it up.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-719	Madam President, I would like Thanks for another not only interesting and complex but also important interpellation, Erik Bengtzboe! It is interesting and complex in the sense that the concept of teaching time is not quite simple, especially in comparison with other countries. I share the view that we have less teaching time in a number of key subjects and should therefore increase it, and I share the School Commission's conclusion. However, in order to complicate the picture in comparison with other countries, I would like to say that we do not include, for example, what we in Sweden organise as preschools in our teaching period, but only the compulsory school. Sweden has a much higher participation in preschool than most other countries, and in international comparisons the main time in preschool is counted as teaching time. This is how the Swedish preschool is compared with other countries' activities for children of similar ages. As we now make pre-school classes compulsory, it changes, as noted, both the total number of hours compared to other countries and the average over the years, which the interpellier makes clear. At the same time, it is for most students how we change the quality of the preschool class, which can make the big difference. Already today, students are in pre-school classes and get a share of this, but it is important for the last 2% that I mentioned in the previous interpellation debate. In addition, the teaching time, i.e. the scheduled time, during the primary school period is a part. Then in different countries we have different types of organization for how students get support next to the scheduled time. Sweden has been far behind many other countries, but now we are in a couple of areas a country that other countries are interested in when it comes to how we work with, for example, holiday schools. It is about the new legislation, which gives the right to education in eighth grade and ninth grade for students who otherwise risk not reaching the targets. In addition, we also have how much time a student is expected to spend on school work alongside the scheduled time. One should also say that although many countries, as well as the average, are above Sweden in teaching time, there are a number of countries that we are happy to measure with and gladly catch up with knowledge and results in terms of results and which have less teaching time than Sweden. Finland is the clearest example of this. With this somewhat more complicated picture, which I see as my task to give, I would like to say: yes, I share the view of the School Commission that we need to increase teaching time in a number of key subjects, and I share the view that this should be done in the long term. The reason for the School Commission writing in the long run is the link to teachers' opportunities to prepare their teaching, secure the quality of it and take that extra conversation alongside the hour with a student who needs it. As a teacher, it is difficult to succeed in your assignment if you do not get the preparation time, and it is difficult to succeed in your security-building and relationship-building work if you always have to run from one lesson to the next. That is why, as we move forward and continue to increase the number of math hours, we are doing so by adjusting the number of hours on the subject where we currently have the greatest quality deficiencies and the least impact, namely the choice of the student. The same applies to sport and health. We also look forward to the need to focus heavily on giving teachers the time they need to prepare their lessons. There's the investment to hire more people at school. This applies, of course, to more teachers, and we actually have more qualified teachers than ever in Swedish school systems. However, the number of pupils has increased even faster or at about the same rate. But this also applies to more of the other staff, so that teachers can be relieved in their work and thus have time to create quality in the teaching situation. If we succeed in these investments, there are, according to the School Commission, the prerequisites for continuing to increase teaching time. To conclude, I would like to say that the schedule of hours allocated to the stadium does not formally mean more hours, but in practice it will mean more hours for many students. We know that there are many students who do not get the time they are entitled to today, and through the staged hourly plan that will change.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-728	Madam President, I would like We know that Swedish students do not get the teaching time they actually deserve. It is perhaps most obvious at upper secondary level, where we also know that the differences are very, very large. To make sure that we have a staged hourly plan, and perhaps also to look at introducing a clearer hourly plan also for high school, would tighten up the requirements that the teaching time students deserve actually be delivered. We know that the difference is extra great in upper secondary school, which among other things the National Association of Teachers has highlighted when you have examined how much teaching time its teachers actually deliver linked to how many points the students then take in upper secondary school. We can see, for example, that we have vocational training where you have an average of three and a half hours of teaching per day. Compared to countries such as Germany or Switzerland, where you have a teaching time of just over eight hours a day, it is clear that this has consequences. With regard to the figures I referred to earlier, where we compare Sweden with other countries, it should be clear that these are figures from the parliamentary investigation service. They only concern compulsory teaching time and nothing else. One can argue that Sweden has a head start because we have many hours in preschool, but just as we discussed about 20 minutes ago in another interpellation debate we can note that both participation and quality change there. It will therefore be difficult to refer to voluntary activities. This is what is a bit problematic in Sweden. Swedish students spend quite a lot of time in school. Swedish upper secondary school students and comprehensive school students, even in relatively low ages, often have very long days but still very little teaching time compared to other countries. Students spend time in recreation centres or in long hole hours and breaks, and there is no teaching – at least not on breaks. In many places, leisure homes make a very good contribution, but even if there is a curriculum and educated teachers there, it is strange to refer to students being allowed to participate in this because it is not part of compulsory primary school and because not all students actually go there. If we are to raise our ambitions and ensure that we get better results from school, we cannot refer to the students solving it themselves together with their parents, but it must be that they have more teaching time, just as the School Commission states. We will soon be debating the teachers' administration even more, but if you compare Swedish teachers with other comparable countries – the same countries that we note that we have less time for teaching than – we can note that Swedish teachers spend less of their time on teaching. They spend a small part of their time planning their teaching, and they spend both a small part of their time and a lower number of hours in total following up their teaching. Instead, they are forced to engage in administrative tasks and social care in a way that is quite frankly suboptimizing. Teachers could spend a larger part of their day planning, implementing and following up their teaching. Then, however, we must dare to cut off what is unnecessary, and we must dare let teachers prioritise. If we do so, we can also increase teaching time without delaying it in the future. The Swedish school results are already too low today; we cannot wait for changes to raise our ambitions, but we need to do so now. Then we also need to extend the teaching time. Perhaps the single most important part is to ensure that Swedish students get more hours with skilled teachers.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-735	Madam President, I would like We broadly share both the problem description and in large parts the direction. I want to problematize the last thing Erik Bengtzboe said. I can't see support in the research because the single most important thing is teaching time. Teaching time is an effective factor and therefore something we should continue to look at how to expand, but the most important thing is the quality of teaching the students receive. Teaching from an unauthorized or very stressed teacher is at risk of not being of good quality, and the lack of quality that arises in that teaching situation cannot be offset by the fact that it becomes more of the teaching. That is why it is so important now, as we go in this direction, to think about what we are doing. What steps do we take, and in what order do we do so? I think that the most important thing at this point is to ensure that teachers are allowed to create quality in their teaching and that students are given the education they are entitled to. They have the right to various forms of special support including more teaching time, which in practice is about when you are given the opportunity to study or teach alongside the schedule – what we a little simplified, or actually quite simplistic, calls homework help. We are doing this type of effort. As I mentioned, we have employed 20 000 more in the school system in recent years. We will soon discuss how we can jointly make efforts and efforts to reduce the administrative burden for teachers so that teachers can spend more time making teaching high quality. This is intended to prepare it and to implement it, to monitor and evaluate it, and to develop the teacher in his teaching. Something else that is meant is the relationship building with the students that is so important for the teacher to be able to create security in the teaching situation and that sometimes requires an effort also in addition to the scheduled time. It could be about that conversation in the corridor alongside the lesson, which I think Erik Bengtzboe and everyone else who has experience of the school remembers was so valuable for the relationship with an individual teacher. After such a conversation, one felt that one could perform better in that teacher's lessons. We need to continue to increase teaching time. I have increased the teaching time by a total of over 100 hours through the new math hours. I look forward to increasing the number of hours in two subjects but compensate this by the student's choice so as not to further extend the teaching time of each individual teacher. I have also made a number of other efforts to strengthen those students who today have the toughest in school. The next step is to ensure that teachers are allowed to use their working hours correctly, that they have good relief and support and that they have access to good specialists in their school situation. If we succeed in doing so, we can also take the steps that the School Commission points out are necessary. However, the School Commission adds that this should be done in the long term, since it notes that the order that I have now described is a wise order in order to get the right quality and the right results from the measures that are being taken.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-743	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that there needs to be support resources around the school. There is also a need for more adults in school who are not teachers. The reason for this is not only that we would have the opportunity to free up teacher-led time for teaching, planning and follow-up – even more follow-up by individual students – but also that there is a value in renouncing teachers' role at all. This helps them to focus on their main task, the knowledge mission, which we know is crucial for achieving good results in the Swedish school system. I am also convinced that if teachers are allowed to be teachers and do not have to devote their time to being curators, janitors or anything else, this can strengthen the teachers' authority and help us get more order in the Swedish school, which we desperately need. I am pleased that the government has changed its mind, for example in terms of more sport, and that these measures are now being implemented, with the support of Parliament. This is something we have been waiting for far too long. We should also think about how we can get more movement in the Swedish school at all, without going in and regulating details for that matter. Special support, measures, interventions and additional teaching time for those in difficulty play an important role. But at the same time, the truth is that we need to raise the ambitions of the Swedish school. We rejoice over Timss, PISA and Pirls measurements where in some cases we are highly mediocre. It is not sustainable for a country like Sweden. If you have as high ambitions as we have in terms of equivalence and equality and in terms of competing with knowledge, even though we are a small, export-dependent country on the outskirts of Europe, you must have higher ambitions and better results. I'm not going to correct the Prime Minister-- that would be strange to me-- but I'm going to repeat what I concluded with earlier: we need more hours for the students, with skilled teachers.
i-6bgSsUfVbc8Fvqp9QcbP76	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Erik Bengtzboe, for the discussion! I note that when we were higher in the international measurements of knowledge – when in most subjects we were at world-class levels – we had no more teaching time than we have today. I also note that there is a need for more teaching time in those subjects where students need to be further strengthened and in those subjects that have in many ways become more complex in recent decades, which is also reflected in the fact that we in these subjects have more content in the curricula and higher knowledge requirements. How do we ensure this? I believe that resources to ensure that teachers are allowed to do the right things are part of it. Clear regulation, which can be followed up by the state, for example with the staged hourly plan, is another part. Clear decisions, such as that we have already introduced more mathematics in the corresponding middle school and will introduce more mathematics in secondary school, are a third part.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-752	Madam President, I would like Erik Bengtzboe has asked me what measures I intend to take to reduce the administrative work of teachers so that they are better placed to carry out their core tasks. Teachers are the key to improving school outcomes. The government takes seriously the fact that the teaching profession has for a long time lost its status and attractiveness. The Ministry Memorandum Time for teaching – teachers' work on written individual development plans from 2013 showed that teachers' tasks had increased over time. The increase included more tasks linked to documentation and monitoring and evaluation of students' knowledge development. According to the OECD study Talis from the same year, Swedish teachers spent more of their time on administrative tasks and less on teaching and skills development than teachers in other OECD countries. The reports showed an increase in teachers' administrative workload over many years. The recent survey by the Finnish Association of Teachers reports that many teachers feel that the amount of administrative work has continued to increase over the past five years. The government has since it took office had increased attractiveness for the teaching profession as one of its main priorities. Administration that takes time from the meeting between teachers and students is one of the challenges addressed. Teachers have spent too much time administering and correcting the national tests. The government has therefore, through a broad agreement, made the previously mandatory national tests in SO and NO for grade 6 volunteers. In the National Tests Bill – fair, equal, digital(prop. 2017/ 18:14), the government has also proposed that the national tests should be digitised, as recently decided by the Riksdag. Digitalisation can further reduce the time spent by teachers. The Government has also decided on a digitalisation strategy for the school system. Through digitalisation, tools and methods can be developed that facilitate staff administration, planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of teaching. At the same time, common solutions can reduce the risk of poor and time-consuming digital systems. The government has also said no to order reviews in primary school – a measure that had further contributed to the documentation requirements for teachers. The 2015 School Commission's Interim Report Collection for School – National Strategy for Knowledge and Equivalence(SOU 2017:35) makes the assessment that the principals should take into account the administrative burden on teachers and vice-chancellors and be restrictive in burdening them with their own goals, instructions and accounting requirements in addition to what is stated in the national steering documents. There is therefore a need to examine what administrative tasks, in addition to those resulting from the national objectives, are currently assigned to teachers and the reasons for this, and to review the possibilities for reducing the amount of such tasks. This is done in the study Better school through more attractive school professors (U 2016:06), which, based on an analysis of the work situation and organisational factors, will propose measures to reduce the administrative work of teachers, principals and those currently called pre-school managers. The investigator will further identify and highlight good examples of how teachers' administrative burden can be reduced while, for example, contact with children's and pupils' guardians and parents can be implemented in a more effective and trustful way. In the 2018 Budget Bill, the Government has also proposed state support for strengthening equivalence and knowledge development, in accordance with the School Commission's proposal. With a phase-in of three years, SEK 6 billion is proposed for the purpose. More resources will make it easier for teachers and improve opportunities for them to carry out their tasks. When it comes to creating more time for preparation and follow-up and time for each student, it is of course also important that about 20 000 more people, converted into full-time positions, have been employed in the school system since the academic year 2014/ 15, including through the government's now several times mentioned efforts on more employees in preschool and primary schools. The government has thus taken and is taking several measures to reduce the administrative burden on teachers.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-766	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your answer. Yes, the fact that skilled teachers spend most of their time planning, implementing, and following up teaching is the basis for the students to receive the teaching to which they are actually entitled. If we have high ambitions for Swedish school and want to see better knowledge results, then the teachers must also be allowed to spend their time doing what they do best, namely teaching. They should not engage in administration, changing curtains, setting up premises, acting as watchmen or as school counselors, but their working time must be allowed to go to teaching. As we noted in the interpellation debate we had just now, Sweden has significantly less teaching time than other countries have. It cannot be interpreted as anything but that we actually have lower ambitions for how far our students should go. We need to greatly extend the teaching time. If this is to be possible, the administrative burden on teachers must be eased. The Teachers' Association notes that the burden has increased over the past five years. Six out of ten teachers claim that the administrative burden has increased sharply, another three out of ten teachers agree that it has increased, at least slightly to much. It is a major problem when teachers are forced to devote their time to administration instead of taking care of their students. International comparisons, such as Vitalis, show that Swedish teachers spend an average of two hours less per week on teaching than teachers in other OECD countries. It also spends two hours more than other countries on administration. According to the Swedish National Agency for Education, which compiles teachers' own views on how they use their time, two hours a day for a Swedish teacher goes to administrative measures and order and care measures that are not about conveying knowledge and are not about the knowledge assignment. It is exemplified by the preparation of premises, processing leave applications, acting as a rest watchman and monitoring changing rooms two hours a day. There are more than 20 000 full-time positions only in the Swedish comprehensive school. There is such an aggressive amount of teachers in a situation where we have a lack of teachers that it becomes completely senseless and one becomes completely speechless. This is a development that has been going on in Sweden for a long time. And it is unfortunately a development that we see in many countries where school results are beginning to fall. The political response is that more control and follow-up is required, and the authorities also need more control and follow-up, because they want to find out what is going wrong at all. The Alliance government, the Social Democratic governments before then and also the Red-Green Government have now contributed to increasing the administrative burden. This is a development that we must all take responsibility for turning around. The Swedish Municipalities and County Council is running a project called PRIO, where, together with the schools, they peel away what is unnecessary. It's important. Digitising and centralising the correction of national tests is also important to free up a lot of time. Ensuring that we get other staff into school that can actually help to solve the tasks that teachers are forced to do, because there is no one else who can do them, is important. There is also a need for clearer governance of the Swedish school, where detailed regulations are reduced, where local politicians and politicians' clout is reduced and where it becomes clear what the teacher's and school's mission is actually, namely to convey knowledge.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-777	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Erik Bengtzboe, for what I think is the most important interpellation, if I may now value but I do not, but still a very important interpellation for the day! If we are to succeed in any of the other efforts we are talking about, it is ultimately about the teacher having the opportunity to burn for his job, develop in his job and carry out high-quality teaching. A few years ago, there were figures pointing out that teachers are one of the country's most stressed professions. From everything we know about stress, we know that it risks taking out some of the skills that are most important in the teaching profession. The possibility of seeing another individual, starting from the individual, adapting their planning from the individual, managing unforeseen situations – all that we know skilled teachers do every day – is threatened when the teaching staff gets stressed. At the same time, we know that everyone can describe, just as Erik Bengtzboe describes, how teachers so often become thousand artists, that there is so often one more task and one more task that is either assigned to teachers or as teachers because it is otherwise felt that no one else would do it and that it is part of one's responsibility to do it. We have been able to see how the Swedish Work Environment Authority has given periodic penalty payments, i.e. fines, to principals because they have not been able to prioritise teachers' duties in such a way that they can reasonably fit within teachers' working hours and how poorly managed school activities have been in many places. Teachers have been formally assigned tasks that as employers cannot explain how they should be accommodated within the time given to teachers. On the basis of this work, we have also discovered a number of success factors, and I will come back to them. However, I would first of all like to say, as Erik Bengtzboe does, that there are a number of initiatives that we can and should do from the state side and which we now do and agree on. Some examples are the digitisation of national tests, digitalisation in general, where we move away from everyone having their own system, with the major time problems that it can entail, to more of common solutions with the time savings that it can bring and more resources that allow teachers to be relieved of other tasks and know that there are others who do what they should do. Added to this is the important local work that needs to be done, and I would say that is in two parts. One is that you need to be able to prioritize in teachers' tasks. You have to do it with the teachers. The reason why you have to do it locally and together with the teachers is that the conditions in different schools are somewhat different for what creates quality in the teaching situation and what it is that needs to be removed. At a school, a good job has been found to use the break for learning for the youngest children, and it is done together with the nursing home staff. At another school the teachers act as rest guards according to the traditional model, something that very well other staff could do. At a school, teachers need support in finding parents but then use parental contact in their motivating work towards their students. In another school, teachers need to be protected from too many intensive parental contacts that take time from work with the students. It looks different. However, one thing is certain: all teachers have a maximum of 24 hours a day and fewer than that in hours worked, and should have so. That is why priority must be given everywhere. The second thing that needs to be done locally, and as the School Commission states so clearly, is to clear the local requirements. To the national requirements that we agree on together, many principals, not least municipalities, add lots of local requirements to follow up, and to this additional local follow-ups that are not linked to any requirements but that take time from teachers. Here it needs to be cleared in order for the time to meet the common knowledge requirements.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-786	Madam President, I would like Yes, this is undeniably a matter of destiny. We should not only be able to increase teaching time and ensure that students thus gain more learning and that teachers have more opportunities to develop, specialise and develop themselves. It is simply also for the simple reason that teachers must have a more reasonable working situation with more order and order in school, where threats and violence are not something that is accepted or remains, but above all that teachers must spend their time in a sensible manner. Otherwise, we will not be able to recruit teachers in the future at all. When you talk to teachers, whether you do it while visiting schools, whether you do it privately or through the teachers'unions, you can observe that teachers testify that they spend hours on dysfunctional absenteeism reporting systems. They spend hours preparing premises. They're changing curtains. They act as rest guards. They put a lot of energy into tasks that they absolutely should not do. There is no doubt that, if we are to be able to relieve teachers today, other professions need to be brought into school. It needs to come in teacher assistants who can actually take responsibility in mentoring for students and in contact with the students' families, be responsible for planning for leisure days, auditions, exam situations and other things so that the teachers' time is freed up. Although the number of adults in school has increased, even during the last term of office, it is unfortunately the case that teacher density in Sweden is decreasing. We are now up to 12 students per teacher. I think it's the first time in 15 years that we're over 11 students per teacher. So there needs to be more teachers. And if we are to succeed in recruiting teachers and retaining teachers, it must also be a better working environment. The fact that national tests are being digitised at last is excellent. However, I do not understand why it should be so terribly long before this can be implemented in reality. A number of countries in our environment have worked with digitised tests for several years, so it should not take several years to develop a model to digitise the national tests in Sweden. However, while we are undertaking the digitisation of the national tests, which is excellent and can also be supplemented by teachers' assistants and others acting as examiners when it is written so that we release teacher time twice more, we should also introduce central correction of the national exams. It would give us a more independent picture of the students' learning results. It would also free up time for teachers when they do not need to correct all national exams but could instead focus on going in and looking at the data that are interesting to compare, discuss and bring to their teaching. Not having to sit and machine correct the national exams would free up even more time and streamline the teacher's role. It's about reindeer farming. It is about the clean-up of the teacher's role, of the teacher's time and of the teacher's tasks. Then, just as the Government was concerned, it is also necessary to clear the requirements of the teachers' heads locally. But it also requires a firm clarity from the government and parliament about what is the central mission of the school. For far too long Swedish teachers have been allowed to take responsibility for social issues, for integration and for social adaptation when their main task should be to convey knowledge and nothing else. We'll have the other one.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-795	Madam President, I would like Yes, teachers should have time to carry out high quality teaching and to create quality in it through good preparation and relationship building with students, reflection on teaching, further processing and competence development. This is where the teacher's focus should be. We will have a strong school organisation that means that you are backed up and relieved of other tasks and that you have access to different forms of specialists in school activities. That is one of the reasons why we are now hiring many more people in Swedish schools and must continue to do so. Therefore, we believe that the proposal put forward by the School Commission that the state should take greater responsibility for the funding of the school and weight the funding better through a major government effort of a total of 6 billion is so important. Let me say something about digitalisation because I received a number of concrete questions from Erik Bengtzboe about it. Rightly implemented, digitalization saves time, but not correctly implemented steals the time. There is probably no adult in Sweden who can't describe how poorly functioning computer systems have been time thieves rather than help to save work. When we make this major reform where all Swedish students in a year at the same time will conduct a joint test from different types of hardware across the country, which should also be protected from the different types of intrusions that digital solutions can entail, the work needs to be carried out in stages and take some time. The first fully digital test will take place next year, and then we will continue to step it up. The neighbouring countries mentioned by Erik Bengtzboe began earlier than Sweden. I wish we had also started earlier, but the digitalisation strategy for Swedish schools came only during this term of office. These neighbouring countries can also say in some cases that things went a little too fast and that the systems for the digital tests did not initially meet the quality they wanted or became the saving of time for the teachers they wanted. Digitalisation also offers greater opportunities for central correction, especially for digital correction. The type of data in the national tests that does not need to be corrected by qualified teachers should normally be data that can be digitally corrected. The data that cannot be corrected digitally do not do so because they require teacher competence, i.e. certified teachers to correct. Sometimes other solutions can be found. But this is the basic concept, and it is the time we should save for the qualified teachers. More will be able to be fixed centrally with digital correction when we have digital tests. It will also be more possible to organize the correction in a simpler way, as Minister Anna Ekström has described in the discussions you have had before. If we have to save time from the national tests, it is perhaps the clearest example of a government decree which is largely right in substance but which is carried out in such a way that it steals much more time around the implementation itself than the benefit of implementation. That is why we agreed that the tests in SO and NO in sixth grade should have the opportunity to decide locally when and how to do them. There should be access to national tests, the formal term is assessment support, which one should be able to use as a teacher, but there should be a local decision on when and how to use them to save time around them. The investigation which then looked further at it found that the arguments were in favour of carrying out the same reform in the ninth grade as well. The tests are also carried out on other substances in which there are national samples, but there is also a requirement for samples in one of the SO and one of the NO substances. We have not moved on with this, partly because we see that there is no support for it in Parliament. Should the bourgeoisie want this time to be reduced too, we are prepared to hold that discussion.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-805	Madam President, I would like It is high time that the national tests were digitised. My point with the comparison with other countries was not that they were ahead of us but that they have already done so. So we don't have to invent the wheel again. Otherwise, it is a Swedish sick person that we are constantly engaged in. It doesn't matter whether we build hospitals or schools or introduce national digital tests. We will always build our own system instead of taking something that is proven and works. Therefore, it always gets more expensive and more complicated, and we are forced to live with childhood diseases even though we are behind. The main point of central correction is not only to correct the light tasks but to support teachers in obtaining an independent assessment, including of their own teaching efforts. It is, of course, the teachers on the spot who will put the grades, and it is of course the teachers on the spot who can also go in and look at the task and say that they would probably have done a different correction and do not share the opinion. This gives us a further idea of what it looks like. One of the main problems when it comes to monitoring in Swedish schools is that we lack independent measurement points. We are debating Timss, Pirl and PISA because we cannot follow up on what the results are for Swedish schools, because the only thing we have to go to is the grades. They are comparable over time but have their own problems. We suffer from a system failure in Sweden. Let's just say. We spend more money on school and education than virtually all comparable countries. Yet we get less teaching time. We get less focus both on teaching and, as the School Commission notes, on pupil health. These are two of the things that we know are most important. The background to this is that we are obviously doing wrong. There is also a political clout in which we regulate detail in a way that not only steals teachers' time but also hijacks their mandates. We have to change that.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-811	Madam President, I would like The discussion on central correction is interesting in many ways. However, if it is not the simple tasks that should be corrected centrally because they can be corrected digitally without the more difficult tasks, I find it difficult to see who is not a qualified teacher and therefore needed in the school system that should have time to correct these tasks and also be able to do so with higher quality than the licensed teachers can. It is a qualified teacher who has the competence to correct tasks that are designed to fit the Swedish school system and the knowledge requirements we set for the students. This is where the problem arises. Since we do not have a supply outside the school system of certified teachers who can jump in and do the central correction, it would risk stealing teacher time from school regardless of where and how to organize it. However, the digital tests provide the opportunity for different solutions that continue to save teachers time. However, I believe that the questions raised in the inquiry into national tests, on which the proposal is based, about the quantity of samples should continue to be seriously examined by all of us. We do not spend more resources than other countries on the school system; we are on the OECD average. However, we spend less on teaching and student health. This is because, among other things, we are a large country and have more school shootings than other countries. We are also a cold country and have more expensive local costs than other countries. We have also chosen to invest in a number of important compensatory tasks alongside education and student health, such as free school meals, which is good. However, we need to increase the resources for education and pupil health, and that is why the government's budget proposes an increase of EUR 6 billion to schools that need it most. If this is done, we will come up on average in resources for teaching and pupil health in the OECD. I would like to continue to get higher.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-816	Madam President, I would like Ida Drougge has asked me what more measures I intend to take to increase the number of hours of teaching for pupils in Swedish comprehensive school. I would like to excuse myself if I repeat myself from previous interpellation responses today. I agree with Ida Drougge that it is important to safeguard the teaching time and that early intervention is crucial for students' knowledge development. According to the comprehensive school hour plan, teaching time totals at least 6,890 hours for each student. Parliament has decided in accordance with the Government proposal School start at the age of six (prop. 2017/ 18:9), and the preschool class will thus be compulsory from autumn 2018. Since the preschool class comprises at least 525 hours of teaching in a school year, this means a significant increase in the number of hours of teaching for pupils in compulsory school forms. The teaching time in the subject of mathematics was increased in 2013 and 2016 by a total of 225 hours. In the memorandum A staged hour plan in comprehensive school and related matters(U2016/ 03475/ S) has also been proposed to increase the number of teaching hours in mathematics by an additional 105 hours in grades 7 to 9 from 1 July 2019. The Government also intends to make an amendment to the school regulation(2011:185) to the effect that teaching time in sports and health in comprehensive schools will be increased by 100 hours from autumn 2019. These hours are redistributed from the student's choice as there are shortcomings in the school's handling of the student's election and a large majority of principals and principals expressed the desire to reduce the teaching time for the student's election. Evaluations show that many students do not receive the teaching time to which they are entitled. The school commission, like the government, considers that a stadium-split hour plan needs to be introduced to ensure that all pupils receive the teaching time to which they are entitled and thus contribute to a more equal school (Collection for School – National Strategy for Knowledge and Equivalence[ SOU 2017:35]). The government has decided on a bill for a staged hourly plan in comprehensive school (prop. 2016/ 17:143), and the Riksdag has decided in accordance with the bill. The new provisions are proposed to enter into force on 1 July 2018. The School Commission rightly points out that there is evidence that more teacher-led teaching time produces positive educational results. In the Commission's view, this applies in particular to subjects where there is limited access to or access to parental support on their own. The Swedish school will equalise socio-economic differences and give all people the opportunity to develop to their full potential. Giving students the opportunity to help with homework and other school work outside regular teaching hours is an important step towards greater equality. In order to stimulate more principals to offer help with homework or other school work, in 2016, the Government strengthened the initiative with a state grant for homework aid to promote the opportunity for students to receive support with homework or other school work outside the regular teaching period. Some of these funds may be used for non-profit associations. Schools' interest in offering homework help is high and increasing. This year, the National Board of Education is paying out a total of SEK 363 million in grants to schools that provide homework help. The Swedish National Agency for Education also pays SEK 20 million to non-profit organizations that offer homework help. The initiative enables homework help to a total of 460,000 students. In accordance with the Government's proposal, Parliament has an obligation to offer a school of praise (prop. 2016/ 17:156) decided on an obligation for principals to offer holiday school to certain pupils in comprehensive school grades 8 and 9. The introduction of such an obligation creates a higher degree of equality and ensures that those students who need it are offered the opportunity for more education. As part of the work to strengthen the results of newly arrived pupils, a pilot project with increased teaching time in Swedish or Swedish as a second language for newly arrived pupils in comprehensive school has been ongoing since 2013. The Government believes that the initiative should also be extended for the following year. These are some measures that the government has taken and intends to take to secure and extend students' teaching time. Teaching time is important, but research points to the teacher's teaching skills as the single most important factor for pupils' knowledge acquisition and results. Here is the time for preparation of crucial importance. It is therefore important that some 20 000 more people, converted into full-time jobs, have been employed in the school system since the academic year 2014/ 15, including through the government's now several times mentioned initiatives on, for example, more employees in pre-school and primary schools.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-825	Madam President, I would like I think it is good that the Minister considers teaching time to be important. I think it is good that the Minister believes that early action is needed and that the Minister understands that this is, of course, linked to the need for teachers' teaching skills to be good. I think that the interpellation debates we have had here just now clearly show how all these issues are connected. What I do not quite understand and what I would like the Minister to develop is what he says in his reply – that he wants to safeguard teaching time. Does he want and will he give priority to increasing teaching time or not, yes or no? No one is proposing to reduce teaching time today, so the concept of safeguarding teaching time becomes somewhat diffuse. I know, as the Minister himself explained in his reply, that teaching time will increase further in 2019. This is because we in Parliament have made this decision, that we in the Moderates as well as the other parties in the Alliance have been pushing the matter for a long time and that we have a majority for this in the Swedish Parliament. It follows that mathematics education will increase in 2019 and also sports education. So far, so good. Hence, my question to the Minister, who is about whether he thinks this is important and whether he will prioritise extending the teaching period beyond that, further, after 2019. We are in a position today when we are lagging behind and when Swedish students can and learn less than students previously in Sweden – in actual knowledge but also in relation to and in competition with students in other countries. It is then referred to that Swedish students will get more time and more hours in school by making the preschool class compulsory. I would never try to say that the minister is trying to be fooled, but this is to drag it very far, as 98% of Sweden's students are already in preschool class. This 98% will not be more hours or more of teaching, but it is exactly the same as today. The issue of teaching time is also important because it is about target management. It is clear and we know that how we run Swedish school nationally affects our schools, students and teachers, who then carry out and do the big job. It is therefore important that we have our priorities clear. From moderate quarters we have it: Teaching time and teaching skills are extremely important and our priority is one, because with this it follows that teachers must have time to prepare lessons. It is part of the mission: You have to have time to prepare, conduct and evaluate lessons. This is the teachers' main mission, this gives skilled teachers and this gives results for our students.
i-LnP6PhU38dS8uGwbWv18Px	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ida Drougge, for the interpellation! I fully agree that the comparison with pre-school classes is only relevant in the case of comparisons with other countries. Then it is relevant, because then the corresponding hours are counted in these countries. In previous answers, I indicated how complicated and difficult that kind of comparison can be because we count slightly differently, it is defined somewhat differently and different countries include different parts during school day. The OECD is trying to clear this up, but since our countries' school systems are very different, these comparisons are difficult. I note that there are countries that have more teaching time than Sweden and countries that have less teaching time than Sweden. In both cases, it is countries that have better and countries that have less knowledge than us. I agree with the School Commission's analysis that, in the long term, we need to increase the number of teaching hours and that this is a way of improving quality, especially in certain subjects. I have increased the total number of teaching hours through the expansion of mathematics 2016. We have jointly agreed on this extension. In the first phase of 2013, it focused on primary school, in the next stage in 2016 it focused on secondary school, and now in 2019 it focuses on secondary school. It is correct that the Moderates have pushed for more hours in sports and health. I'm closing up behind that line. I think it is important to have more hours in sports and health. It'll give you better opportunities. But I think that at the same time we must be able to make sure that you move more every day. These are two things that have unfortunately been set against each other. It is good that we have left that discussion behind. The next two increases in the number of hours, i.e. in mathematics and in sports and health, will take place in such a way that the number of hours in the student's choice is reduced. I do not consider that to have a negative impact on the results. The student's choice is today a subject of very poor quality, and many principals believe that this is a good change. The number of hours left in the student's choice corresponds approximately to the number of hours that make it possible to read a third language during primary school, which is good. The concept of safeguarding or securing teaching time, which is addressed in the interpellation response, is linked to the staged hourly plan. What we regulate as teaching time is one thing. Unfortunately, follow-ups show that the teaching time that students actually get many times has been another matter. This has partly been due to the fact that we have missed a staged hour plan. The fact that we have not had a schooled hour plan has meant that a student who has moved and changed school during his or her primary school period has received fewer hours during his or her primary school period because he or she has simply gone from a school that has misplaced a certain subject late to a school that has already gone through this subject. What is more common, of course, is that the lack of follow-up means that many schools have not fully tracked how many hours the students actually have. It is difficult to do such a follow-up for nine, or for that matter ten, years. The staged hourly plan increases these opportunities. In practice, we know that it will mean more hours of teaching for students. I believe, like the School Inspectorate, that the hours of teaching in a number of subjects should increase in the future. However, this should be done at the same time as reducing the administrative burden on teachers and being able to hire more teachers. This also means that the number of hours should increase at the rate that is possible without encroaching on teachers' ability to create quality in the teaching situation.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-838	Madam President, I would like This is good. I cannot interpret the Minister in any other way. It is, in any case, a step forward that the Minister and the Government want to safeguard that the pupils are given the teaching time to which they are already entitled. It is a step forward, and it is an important step forward. I also think it is good to have a staged hourly plan. From a moderate point of view, we want to take another step forward. It goes without saying that additional teaching time – we want an hour more – is linked to the fact that this teaching time should also be of high quality and that teachers then need to have the opportunity to deliver it. It's obvious. That is why the question is also about how we manage to get that very thing. Everything shows that our teachers work no less than teachers in other countries. They're not lazy, they're not less hours at work, they don't think less about their job – the other way around. On the other hand, the teaching assignment is more quirky than in many other countries, and the teachers work more with other things than what they are trained for. As such, research shows, the status of the teaching profession is also reduced. In all professions where you work with other things than what you are trained for – what the public perceives as a teacher for example – and thus not being allowed to work with what you are trained to lower the attractiveness of the profession in this case the teachers themselves and also in the rest of society. This evil spiral must be reversed. In order for the government's increased number of seats in teacher education to be filled at all and for students there not to drop out as much as today, the status needs to be increased. Teachers must be allowed to do what they are trained to do and they must be given the opportunity to professionalise themselves further and become better at just teaching and preparing and evaluating lessons. And they need to spend less time on other things. We have further proposals on this, as Erik Bengtzboe has explained in a commendable way here in the past, i.e. how to reduce administration. I think it's a little provocative how we use the teachers' skills. They clean, set up chairs, wipe paintings, hang curtains, and keep them in order when we need them for so much else and when they are far too few and the shortage is so great. The Minister also mentions the proposal for a holiday school. It is also half a step forward, as it is not mandatory for students to go in. It's voluntary. I wonder why they have chosen to do that. When comprehensive school is not voluntary, why is it voluntary to go to holiday school when a student is behind and does not reach the goals?
i-1d5433a38697af7b-845	Madam President, I would like I thank Ida Drougge for this. To be able to teach good quality, to be able to develop your profession and to be the teacher that you thought you would be when you once chose the course of teaching is the crucial issue for the attractiveness of the teaching profession. Yes, that's why it's important to hire more people at school, so that teachers can be teachers and focus on the teaching assignment. Yes, I fully share Ida Drougges's description that it is provocative when teachers do not gain power over their tasks but become thousand artists and alliallons or administrators with a certain teaching obligation. I want teachers to be teachers. That's what we have to solve. Solving it creates the conditions for us to be able to meet the need for more teaching time also for the students. I am not sure, however, that I want to combine more teaching time for the students with more teaching obligation for the teachers. As we reduce administrative time, I believe that we should first of all ensure that teachers have more preparation time to create quality in teaching. We also need to train more teachers and hire more teachers in order to ensure that students have more teaching time in those subjects where it can make the most difference. There is a conflict of goals between more hours and quality in teaching. If you do not create the right conditions for teachers so that these teachers, or even worse, these teachers plus an increased proportion of unauthorized teachers, will carry out the teaching, there is a risk that the quality of the teaching will fall. It is this conflict of objectives that we need to deal with jointly. That is why I do not agree that next year or the following year we should introduce another teaching hour every day. On the other hand, we are making a number of other contributions, which I have presented in the interpellation debates that we have had. One of them is compulsory holiday school. I am asked why compulsory schooling is not compulsory for the student. The reason for this is that when we proceed with this, which is also based on the previously mentioned comprehensive school inquiry and Ann-Marie-Marie Begler's analyses, we do so based on the success factors we have seen. One of these strong success factors has been that they have worked with the students being motivated to take that last step to pass a part of the teaching that means that they reach a final knowledge requirement and can get a grade to be eligible a. Should these days and weeks be allowed to force in all pupils who do not achieve a result in order to qualify, no matter how far they have until they reach this result, the risk would be great that the quality of the school will fall and that the conditions for those particular pupils for whom the school of learning is an opportunity to reach the required level will become worse. Evaluations also show that the holiday school risks being just an extension of the semester for the students, i.e. more of the same thing. And one of the points of the school has been that it has been organized in a slightly different way, with more individualization in terms of the elements that the students have lacked. Therefore, we have chosen not to go forward with the school being compulsory for students, according to Ann-Marie-Marie Begler's analysis. What I could imagine being able to look further at is whether schools should be able to use an obligatorium for those students that the school, through the vice-chancellor's decision, really judge one, would benefit from the school even in cases where the students do not want to go to the school. Today, you have accepted a holiday school offer. Once you have accepted, the school is compulsory for you as a student.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-853	Madam President, I would like It is not on me and my role to give any tips to the Minister, but I would like to do some fellow mail. If the government had taken any more measures to reduce the administrative burden on teachers, I would have almost bought that maximum effort was made to use teachers properly to increase teaching time. Then we would simply see whether the time released needs to be spent on already existing teaching time or whether one can wait a year or two to see if that time can be used to increase teaching time further as one also follows how many new teachers enter the profession, how the retirements will be, and so on. At present, however, I do not think that this argument is valid. I think it's putting a great deal of responsibility and weight on those students who don't reach the goals in school when you say that holiday school and homework help should be voluntary. It's not always very cool or socially okay when you're in eighth grade or ninth grade to stay after school and study further. To put the responsibility on the student himself to choose to study more or not is not right, I think, but it is part of the adult's role in this context. In fact, another measure that could have been taken is to put this earlier, already in sixth grade or seventh grade.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-856	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ida Drougge, for the argument about the school of praise! I do not share the view that we should introduce a school of learning that is mandatory for anyone who is at risk of missing the knowledge requirements, because I believe that the school should be for those who are about to miss the knowledge requirements and are able to reach them precisely through the tool of the school of praise so that they can create a qualitative opportunity for them. However, I share the view that it might well be a point that the Vice-Chancellor has the opportunity to make a decision about it as a support effort in the same way that decisions on other support measures can be made. This would mean that the decision to go to holiday school does not lie with the individual student. I think it is a rather wise solution that is also similar to the system we have for support measures where the student is of course very much involved in the work on, for example, what an action programme should be filled with, but where in the end it is a decision that is not on the student when it comes to exactly how the teaching should be designed. There was, however, not the preparation board for it, but the question that Ann ‐ Marie Begler had to test was whether it would be mandatory for everyone in the group or whether it would not be mandatory at all and landed on the basis of the success factors that it should be voluntary. However, this is indeed an issue that I see one could look further at and which, in a broad sense, actually lies in the investigation currently under way on how to improve support measures in a broad sense. This investigation is carried out by Åsa Karle, who is also head of the Special Education School Agency. With this, I would like to thank Ida Drougge for the debate and, if Erik Bengtzboe and Ida Drougge now depart from the Chamber, I would also like to wish you a good break from parliamentary work on the ground here and a Merry Christmas!
i-1d5433a38697af7b-859	Madam President, I would like Daniel Riazat has asked me what demands I have made as a minister for measures at the National Board of Education and the State's school inspection. Daniel Riazat has also asked me when the bill to transfer responsibility for investigations into harassment from the Discrimination Ombudsman to the School Inspectorate will come. The calls during the hashtag # metoo upset us all. When I, as a minister responsible for education, am reached by the calls from school, about children's and pupils' vulnerability and experiences, I take it very seriously, of course. Sexual harassment and harassment must be fought with the full force of society. In addition to measures to identify, arrest and punish offenders, preventive measures are urgently needed. We must actively combat attitudes and behaviours that normalize various forms of sexual harassment and abuse. Through the Discrimination Act(2008:567) and the School Act(2010:800) the school has an obligation to work actively against, among other things, sexual harassment. As of 1 January this year, legislation has clarified that schools must have operational guidelines and procedures to prevent harassment and sexual harassment. It can be found in Chapter 3. Section 18 of the Discrimination Act. The research shows the importance of systematic proactive work with norm criticism, inclusion, equal treatment, participation and influence. At school, reacting to and counteracting coarse language or violating children's physical integrity in play or activities at an early stage is countering the normalization of school calls. Norm criticism and norm awareness are a starting point for the school authorities' work on these issues. In Skolverket's report Discriminated, harassed, violated? from 2009 and the School Inspectorate's Quality Review Schools' work against online harassment and insulting treatment from 2016 underlines the importance of the school challenging standards that can lead to violations. Within the framework of the national school development programmes, the Government has also commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to carry out competence, development and support efforts to develop the work on the school's core values. This applies, for example, to security and study, gender equality and norm criticism, as well as work against discrimination and abusive treatment. In the school's sex and cohabitation education, there is an opportunity to address issues of norms, identity and consent on several subjects. The School Inspectorate is now conducting a review of sex and cohabitation education. The Government intends to take careful note of the results of that review and to consider which measures are appropriate. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to review the preschool curriculum. This work will also highlight and clarify children's right to privacy. These include children's right to physical integrity. The Discrimination Ombudsman supervises the school on the basis of the Discrimination Act and investigates reports of sexual harassment. The School Inspectorate supervises compliance with the provisions on abusive treatment and safety and studies in the School Act in schools. The report "Better protection against discrimination" (SOU 2016:87) proposes that the supervisory responsibility for the work against discrimination in school law-regulated activities should be transferred to the School Inspectorate and a legislative proposal to that effect should be submitted. The report has been referred and is currently being prepared within the Government Office. The government has taken a series of concrete measures to ensure that schools identify standards that limit equal opportunities for children and pupils to learn and develop at school. Our work on this continues.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-865	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer. Since stories during the hashtag # metoo began to spread in mid-October, many more calls have been made in different industries and sectors of society. As I have mentioned in my interpellation, among other things the hashtags # quieti class, # show up hand and # unapproved have come from the school world. Thousands of girls and women, young and old, have witnessed sexual harassment and abuse at school. The perpetrators have one thing in common, and that's that they're men. It's about classmates, teachers or other school staff. It's not all men, but it's all kinds of men. This is not surprising, and now it is time for us to act and show that we take these testimonies seriously and that it should not stop at words. We need to shift the responsibility where it belongs. When men are guilty of almost all violence and sexual abuse, it cannot be on women to have to change their behaviour. Everyone has to go to school. Therefore, it is important that schools take on the preventive and remedial work against sexual harassment and violence. The school is also the place where it is most common for young girls to be subjected to sexual harassment. The calls point to the shortcomings of today's work. I am pleased that the government and the Minister for Education are serious on this point. At the same time, however, this shows that we need to do more to find solutions. This shows that the Swedish National Agency for Education's support material for core values work, where sexual harassment is included, is good in words but that it does not always work in practice. In Friend's 2017 report, the organization describes that you have met several students and teachers who are so used to sexual harassment that they see it as part of everyday life and that it is the way girls and boys behave against each other. Girls learn that when a boy hunts or beats a girl, it means the boy likes her – you know, love always starts with trouble. A sexual harassment where a guy takes a girl between his legs or on his breasts is explained in principle often or always away by the fact that the guy is childish or immature and has not understood his action. That is not acceptable. Moreover, when abuse reaches the courtroom – it's about men treating women that way – there are far too many cases where you hear in the court that it's something men haven't understood and that it hasn't been intentional. It is good that the government has commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to develop a new curriculum for preschools, to give the issue more weight. What else does the government intend to do to get us anywhere with the problem? Generations of women and girls shouldn't have to accept that it looks like this. Nor can we have an educational system in which destructive gender norms and destructive behaviours of men and boys are accepted.
i-HYBJu5RwYzXHSyyLSrpoF2	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the interpellation, Daniel Riazat! We have been working on some measures for a long time. I described some of them in the answer. It is about changing and strengthening the preschool curriculum, securing national school development programmes that provide schools with support in their work on this and the legislative change that we intend to implement in order to strengthen the School Inspectorate's ability to work against sexual harassment in all schools and opportunities to act when you receive a report of sexual harassment. I can also add the guide on how an adult in the school world should act when you suspect or become aware of a sexual abuse of a child. It has been developed by the Foundation General Barnhuset through the Government's mission and funding. That the school environment is not safe for everyone is known. And that has been one of our greatest priorities this parliamentary term. These are measures that are now to be implemented. Although it has been known, I think it is impossible for a reasonable person not to be shaken seriously by the testimony coming out of the metoo and the specific appeals linked to the school world. Many of the violations, abuses and crimes described have taken place in the school world – between pupils, between staff, from pupils against staff or from staff against pupils. If it has happened elsewhere or in other industries, it seems to be based on attitudes that have been established early on when men have been boys in preschool or elementary school. Daniel Riazat describes how culture, attitudes and expectations of how men and women should be against each other have normalized there. Play became a violation, negating girls' privacy became sexual abuse and the language and behavior along with the lessons – sometimes even in the lessons – became such that the abuse and what we now see became normalized. It shows how extremely important this work is. I can only agree that there must be one before and one after autumn 2017. The courageous testimony that is now coming to light must lead to action by everyone in a responsible position. This applies, of course, to every principal and every adult at every school. But that also applies to us. We will continue to sit down with the school authorities. We have started work to see if it is possible to reinforce the efforts we are making now, if it is possible to ensure that they come out to all schools in a different way than before. Can we interact with teachers, school leaders and other organisations that can come forward to make changes? And if so, how? We have laid the foundations for a change. The testimony has created an awareness that I do not believe any government mission or campaign from an interest organisation or political party could do. That awareness and foundation must now be used for real change in every school.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-880	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Education once again. As I said, I am pleased that the government sees the problem and takes it as seriously as we do. It should not stop being stories, but it should be written a new story about another society where patriarchal and destructive gender norms are not the base, as they have unfortunately become. The measures presented by the Minister for Education are good. We will also follow developments. I would like to raise some other areas, to see how the government and the Minister for Education think. One question is about the means of teaching at school, that is, the material used to teach the students. Is there a thought when it comes to violating destructive gender standards and in many and very patriarchal, sometimes even racist, standards that can be found in the teaching tools? There have been several reports for a number of years, even before this government came to power, showing that the teaching facilities in school are not really living up to the curriculum, which is that we are going to counter those standards. The teaching is largely based on men. As for history books, for example, women who have made important impressions in our society do not seem to have existed. Of course that's not true. The second question is about the teaching of sex and cohabitation and sex knowledge. What plans does the government have there? We know that there too it has worked in many places, but that things have been much worse elsewhere. You haven't lived up to your expectations. The third question is about who is going to move in the meantime after a student has been exposed and you tackle the problem. Of course, this can also apply to other harassments, such as bullying. But in this case, young girls have repeatedly had to move while the guy, the perpetrator, has basically not been touched by what he has exposed her to. Something has to be done about it. For example, can anything be done about school leaders to clarify the situation? I'm also familiar with what the school law looks like. But the school law is obviously not being followed. What does the Minister of Education want to do to ensure that the implementation of the existing school law is complied with in this respect?
i-T7Kf4QkUjMmBrq4Su9u7v1	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Daniel Riazat! As far as teaching materials are concerned, I know that the teaching materials industry is deliberately working to move both the problems that have existed in the teaching materials and the problems in specific subjects that are reflected in the teaching materials. For example, it has been a relatively one-sided focus in Swedish history research, which has resulted in the textbooks being filled with certain material and that other things have been omitted. The order we have been in today for a relatively long time is that schools and teachers are allowed to use the teaching materials they consider appropriate. Then, as a state, we follow up on the fact that each school has similar teaching. It may also include examining which teaching materials are used and how they comply with what is stated in the curriculum. I am no stranger to being able to give advice to schools in the way that is done in most other countries, where you see that the teaching materials that are produced follow the example of the school's gleaming of values. This may most often apply to separate courses. Whether you have that order or the order that we have in Sweden, it is ultimately so that the teaching materials must be produced. I don't think teaching materials should be produced by the government. Basically, it is good that teaching materials are produced independently of the state. State-produced teaching materials seem to follow a certain trend but miss other trends – mildly put. For this reason, there is reason to make sure that it is the industry that does the job. I have met this on several occasions in the educational industry. On the second issue of sex and coexistence, we have now requested a quality review from the School Inspectorate. The background to this is that we know that it is flawed. It looks very different in different schools given what is written in the steering documents and what is actually happening at the schools. However, we do not have an overview of how it is lacking. We do not know where the major shortcomings are, and we do not really know where to put the concrete support. That's what the quality review is supposed to come up with. Based on it, we can decide on, for example, a national school development programme to train teachers. But then we need to know which category of teachers it is most in need of this further training. In view of the great role that a good sex and cohabitation education can play, I absolutely believe that it will be implemented. The third issue was that students who have committed violations should be able to move. Yes, just as Daniel Riazat says, the school law is fundamentally very clear. Rector has the ability to turn off a student and also to move a student. The Vice-Chancellor can also turn off a student and choose to move the student during the time the suspension takes place. The legal cases we have on the table suggest that the measures are being used too quickly than too much. It is important that there is information, integrity and the possibility for each Vice-Chancellor to use the tools provided by the School Act. This is why the Government decided on Thursday that the Swedish National Agency for Education should give a commission to evaluate both the use of local regulations and the use of disciplinary measures permitted by the Education Act. One should also evaluate how we can reach out with information about the same and good examples to Sweden's Vice-Chancellors.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-893	Madam President, I would like I think, as I said, it is very good that the government has taken this seriously. I also agree that there may be problems with teaching materials produced by the state and that this is not the only solution. Even within the state, there are apparently individuals who carry destructive gender standards. It is not something that is isolated only to the classrooms or to non-profit organisations, but it exists throughout our society. Therefore, I rather believe that one should clarify and perhaps be a little harder and meddle in a little more to give advice to the schools such as the Minister for Education said he is not foreign to. I would certainly agree if the government were to make such a proposal. With regard to sex and cohabitation, I agree that it is rather unclear where the problems are and exactly how to tackle them. It is very good that you continue to work on it. When it comes to the school law, I feel – as I said earlier – that the law is clear when it comes to the transfer and suspension of students, but it needs to be done further in order for school leaders to comply with the legislation. Once again, I am pleased with the announcement from the government. There are a number of other things that you could do and that you have done together in different municipalities. While we have the patterns that we have, the standards that we have, it is important that students who are vulnerable are given the opportunity to strengthen each other and themselves. It is not always that students turn to curators or school psychologists, so there could be feminist self-defense and other measures, for example.
i-VpKryB4MeZmUdn35XBuf2L	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Daniel Riazat! With regard to teaching materials, I can emphasise and clarify that what the industry is asking is, for example, that the School Inspectorate would more often review which teaching materials are used. Of course, the industry has a great interest in the use of up-to-date teaching materials and changes in teaching materials as the content of the subjects changes. This also applies to knowledge of how to produce a good teaching material that can be a good support in teachers' work. The basic order that we do not run the school through the means of teaching, but that we run the school through the policy documents and the review of the school in order to ensure that the teaching is equal, I strongly defend. This work may also involve providing different types of advice or seeing how teaching materials can be used in a good way as in many other countries. With this, I thank you for the support that exists for the government's work in this area. The work will continue, and I look forward to continuing to meet to develop this policy. I wish the honourable Member a good break in parliamentary work and a Merry Christmas.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-900	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the Finnish Immigration Service's debt to the municipalities is paid in the near future and whether I can consider a new model with preliminary ongoing a conto payments that are settled afterwards in order to reduce the large amount of the municipalities are forced to wait for. The large increase in the number of asylum seekers in 2014 and 2015 led to a sharp increase in municipal applications for compensation. The previously administratively demanding compensation system for the reception of unaccompanied minors by municipalities contributed to delays in processing. The system led to a long delay from the actual cost until the municipalities apply for compensation and then finally get paid by the Migration Agency. Today, the balance is SEK 8.1 billion. At the end of the year, the balance is estimated to be between SEK 4 and 5 billion. In order to increase the efficiency of payments to municipalities, the Government introduced on 1 July 2017 a new compensation system for the reception of unaccompanied minors by municipalities. The new compensation system is based to a greater extent on flat rates which are paid out automatically without the municipality having to apply for the compensation. The introduction of the new compensation system has increased the efficiency of payments to municipalities for costs incurred from 1 July 2017. The municipalities have until 31 December the possibility to apply for reimbursement of costs incurred before the new compensation system was introduced. Among other things, in order to be able to pay out older claims for compensation at a higher rate, the Government has proposed and the Riksdag has decided to increase the autumn 2017 amending budget by SEK 6.3 billion. The Finnish Immigration Service estimates that more can be paid out to municipalities and county councils in 2017 than previously assumed, both through increased efficiency in the administration and through direct instalments. Through this management, the Migration Agency will thus be able to pay out a larger part of its claims in 2017 than previously forecasted. Instead, verification and the usual handling of the claims for compensation to be distributed will take place in 2018. That was my initial answer.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-907	Madam President, I would like It is a bit of an honour to be able to take part in today's last interpellation debate. The minister and I met here barely a month ago. Then I told him that just over a year ago I put an interpellation to the then Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson on account of the fact that the Migration Agency had a very large unpaid debt to the municipalities. In the ensuing debate, he promised that the Migration Agency was catching up and that the waiting period for payment would gradually decrease. When I wrote this new interpellation at the beginning of December, the Finnish Immigration Service still owed the municipalities over SEK 10 billion for the asylum reception. This has had the effect that smaller municipalities with a large reception have had huge economic imbalances and even been forced to borrow in order to cope with the current economy. Now the minister says that according to the Migration Board the debt is down to just over 8 billion, and the minister believes that the balance will be down to 4 – 5 billion by the end of the year. In just a few weeks, with a little weekend between, you should halve your debt to the municipalities from 8 to 4 – 5 billion. This actually sounds unlikely. I do not doubt the Minister at all, but I think that perhaps one should take the tasks of the Migration Board with a small pinch of salt. Unfortunately, if the Migration Board failed to keep the previous Minister of Migration's promise a year ago to reduce debt, I doubt that it will actually succeed this time. In fact, Sweden's municipalities have, in practice, been acting as a bank for the state for several years. This is because the compensation from the Finnish Immigration Service is paid afterwards with large delays. The effects of the new residence law and the other rather heavy pressures on municipalities resulting from the large number of new arrivals, such as in school, are large enough without the state having to make the situation more difficult by lagging behind the compensation to the municipalities. Otherwise, there is a risk that municipalities will have to cut back on other things. We know that this in turn does not directly benefit integration. The least you can ask is for municipalities to be paid on time so that they get an overview of their finances and budgets. The Minister of Migration mentioned in the debate at the beginning of December that the Finnish Immigration Service had changed its payment procedures and more used stencils. This was something I asked for in my debate with Morgan Johansson a year ago. According to him, it was impossible, and the risk was that the municipalities would then be paid too much, that it would create too much uncertainty and so on. Apparently, it went well anyway. At the beginning of December, the Minister for Migration was unsure whether the new standard model applied to all new arrivals placed in municipalities or only to unaccompanied minors. She wanted to come back to me about this. In today's debate, I have received the answer that the model only applied to unaccompanied children. Why is that? I find it difficult to see that there would be some problem with using stencils for all types of compensation for new arrivals and then adjusting afterwards if there are details that need to be recovered for or that can be drawn on almost payment. In fact, in my interpellation, I ask the Minister whether she would consider a new model of preliminary, ongoing, ex-post payments, which applies to all forms of reception of new arrivals, not just unaccompanied minors. I do not get an answer to this question in the Minister's introductory speech, which is why I repeat it.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-916	Madam President, I would like I really want to thank you for the interpellation. Even though Jan Ericson and I have debated this before, it is nevertheless important and urgent to devote this moment to this issue. The Government is clear that payments to municipalities should be made as efficiently as possible. Therefore, the government has added an additional SEK 6.3 billion, so that it will be possible to manage as high a share of the payments as possible in 2017. As I can see in the draft budget of the other parties, no other party has come up with a higher level to allow for further payments. Moreover, I do not really think it would have affected the picture, because it also requires that you have the skills and know-how to handle it. To give a picture of this, I can tell you that the Migration Agency has been lagging behind since 2015. We are now paying out for both 2015 and 2016 and 2107. In 2016, there were 37 employees who worked on these issues. Today there are 203 administrators at the Migration Agency who handle the payments. This gives a pretty good idea of what the mission is all about. This is also the background to the need to abandon the very complicated and administrative system introduced in 2008. Now it has been modernised, and just as Jan Ericson says, the new system concerns the unaccompanied and their residents. As a direct answer to the question of whether you cannot go further and also change the payments for other areas of compensation, I can tell you that the investigation we call the "Receipt Investigation" has part of this in its mission. Pending this investigation, however, the Finnish Immigration Service, on behalf of the Government, has taken measures to streamline the handling of other applications as well. This could be about school and health care costs. Overall, these are payments to municipalities and county councils. There is a clear ambition and a mission to the Migration Agency to digitise the application process and automate the payments to municipalities and county councils in accordance with the model I described that they are already using. In that part, it is well an estimate of Jan Ericson's previous proposal to find a kind of standard model. I would like us to help each other to ensure that all municipalities in the country adhere to the agreement needed for the digitalised e-service to function properly. At present, about half of the country's municipalities have chosen to enter this model. However, I am convinced that much more will also show interest in future areas and payments after they have become familiar with the new compensation system in the autumn. We are therefore facing a transitional period in the coming weeks. I look forward to achieving a balance that is truly a balance.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-924	Madam President, I would like I reacted a little when I heard in the interpellation response that, among other things, in order to be able to pay out older claims at a higher rate, the autumn change budget has increased by SEK 6.3 billion. There can be no lack of money in the Government's budget to pay the debt to the municipalities. I believe, like the Minister, that it is not primarily about money, because it is clear that the Migration Agency must do well and that there must be money for this. Otherwise you can borrow or do something else, because you can't keep the municipalities waiting because the state's money is out. The problem, which the Minister also raised, is that it is currently handling cases from 2015, 2016 and 2017 and that it has 203 case officers. This says something about the enormous complexity of the compensation system. The question is whether you can have such a complicated system. When we debated this at the beginning of December, several participants in the debate pointed out that there are even legal disputes between municipalities and the Finnish Immigration Service over what compensation can be paid for. It is unreasonable that the regulatory framework is so complicated that the municipality does not know in advance what it receives compensation for and not. I would like to ask the Minister if there are any thoughts about simplifying the regulatory framework and perhaps clarifying it so that it does not have to be a balance with three-year-old cases and that 203 administrators will work on this at the Migration Agency. That sounds very inefficient, at least to me. I am pleased that the Minister notes that what I proposed to Morgan Johansson a year ago, and as he said was completely impossible, is now all of a sudden the government's line and that the Migration Agency has been given the task of working on this. It's a great sin that Morgan Johansson didn't listen to what I said a year ago.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-929	Madam President, I would like I'll be very careful with Jan Ericson. The 6.3 billion is an appropriation in this area of expenditure which makes it possible to make payments of higher claims more quickly. I shall now almost be overly clear with Jan Ericson. The system and the regulatory framework that we have and are responsible for until the end of the year is what the then bourgeois government thought should meet the need for an administrative system for payments to the municipalities. It turned out, however, that it was not viable. It could not handle the high volumes in 2014 and 2015. It was complicated administratively. It was possible to search for it for a whole year afterwards. It was to be submitted in paper form. There are many different systems to describe the costs of municipalities. It's a very outdated system. Since last summer we have a completely new compensation system, which is digitised and simple. It has considerably simplified the opportunities for municipalities to follow this and also to be active themselves by entering and influencing, for example, the number of unaccompanied minors in the municipality at the time. Anyone who now has older claims and needs to apply under the old compensation system has only until the end of the year to do so. The new system does not even require an application, but an e-service agreement with the Finnish Immigration Service is required. I am convinced that in the future this will mean that the municipalities, with the great responsibility they take, will have their costs reimbursed from the start in a good way. Also on the issue of legal proceedings, I want to be clear – I was last time also: there are no legal proceedings between the municipalities and the Migration Agency on non-payments. But there are cases where the Migration Agency has rejected some part of the application, and this is the subject of such a process.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-934	Mr President, I would like to The amount of appropriations must not have any bearing on the rate at which compensation is paid. I think that was a little unfortunate in the answer. If the Finnish Immigration Service owes the municipalities money, the work cannot say: No, now our money is out – we can't pay out any money but have to wait until next year, when we get the next grant. That, of course, must not be the case, and I do not think that is the case either. I just think that was a little unfortunate in the answer. As far as disputes are concerned, I think it is perhaps most serious if there are disputes about what is actually being compensated for. The municipalities must know in advance what they can cost to do for a good integration and a good reception. Then they must be clear about what they can be covered for afterwards, so that they do not incur unnecessary expenditure. We also mentioned earlier that otherwise there is a risk that the municipalities will cut back on the reception because they are concerned that they will not be able to cover the costs. I don't think any of us want that to happen. I note that the new system unfortunately only applies to unaccompanied minors. I very much hope that the Minister is pushing for this so that it can cover all forms of compensation for new arrivals. The Minister says that the government inherited this system from the time of the alliance, but we inherited it from the previous government unless I'm completely misinformed. The system has been in place for a very long time. It has, as I said, been about the fact that there have been very few individuals it has been necessary to claim compensation for, and that has not been a big problem. Now we have a completely different situation, and I am pleased that the Minister is flying the flag because I may be able to get what I want eventually. I think it'll be very good. I would like to take this opportunity to wish the Minister, Mr President and others a Merry Christmas.
i-1d5433a38697af7b-939	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking you for the debate, Jan Ericson. It has given me an excellent opportunity to describe the government's high ambitions to get the new compensation system at the Migration Agency and digitalisation in place. We now look forward to a completely new such system, a very effective one, and we have tried it since this summer. I also see that, in the long term, it will also cover other areas of payment, as Jan Ericson wishes. This autumn's debate has been much about the backlogs we have since 2015 and 2016. This means that it is the highest change at the Migration Agency to make as many payments as possible before the end of the year in terms of the older claims. If we end up at that level that there are still 4 – 5 billion, about 10 percent of the total, for the whole of this year in payments, it is a better level than what the Migration Board itself thought it would be able to handle. I therefore hope that at the beginning of next year we will be able to conclude together that we have now replaced the old complicated administrative system with a new, modern and simplified one. With this, I think it feels very good to be able to say: Merry Christmas and thank you for the debate!
