i-b6dee566380154aa-7	Mr President, I would like to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me if the government is preparing any reforms or initiatives that can create stronger driving forces to train in Sweden. He has also asked how the government feels about changing the dimensioning of the number of training places through the resource allocation system, so that the training required in the labour market has more places in relation to training courses linked to the labour market. I note that there is a great deal of interest in higher education. Despite the favourable labour market developments in recent years, the number of applicants is historically high. We also know that people with tertiary education have very good labour market prospects. In Sweden, people with tertiary education have a higher employment rate and lower unemployment than the OECD average. The Government has therefore begun an expansion of the university, which will provide a total of 18 000 new places of study until 2021. There should be opportunity to study throughout the country and throughout life. Universities and higher education institutions have a unique ability to develop education programmes that also affect and renew the future labour market through their research and access to new knowledge. This distinguishes them from other training providers. It is therefore important that the government's governance takes account of the specific nature of the universities and supports their mission to take responsibility for both the development of knowledge and to contribute to meeting societal challenges. However, governance needs to be developed in order to give higher education institutions good opportunities to conduct long-term activities. A special investigator has therefore recently been tasked with carrying out a comprehensive review of the governance of universities and higher education institutions, including the allocation of resources, the so-called governance and resource investigation. The investigator's assignment includes, among other things, submitting proposals on how the responsibility for dimensioning the educational offering should be shared between the government and the higher education institutions to ensure the supply of skills and other societal needs. Meeting the skills needs of the labour market and society also requires increased collaboration between higher education institutions and relevant work organisation organisations on common solutions. This will increase the opportunities for more people to be trained in these areas. The Government has commissioned the University Chancellor's Office, together with the National Board of Health and Welfare, to identify the needs for competence in the area of health care. The University Chancellor's Office is also tasked with cooperating with the Swedish National Agency for Education in their mission to make forecasts for the need for teachers. Unemployment among those with higher education is very low. Universities and higher education institutions play a major role in training for tomorrow's labour market. I therefore note that higher education benefits both individuals and society at large. Once the investigator's report has been received, I look forward to a further discussion on the future dimension of training places.
i-b6dee566380154aa-13	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As the Government mentions, there are many applicants for higher education institutions and universities. That's good, but maybe it's not that strange. We are more Swedes than ever before. There's more of us every day. The hills that were born in 1992, 1993, 1994 and 1995 are very large. The fact that they are now at the right age for further study probably plays a role when we see that many are seeking. After 1995, the size of the hills is falling considerably. The Government also mentions that the government is expanding the university considerably, with 18,000 new seats by 2021. Perhaps one can be a little wondering as to why the government is now turning on the big drum, even before reviewing the resource allocation system. If you only have the focus on printing students through the education and get as many places as possible to get the numbers up, there are cheaper and more expensive ways to do that. For example, setting up an extra chair for the training of gender scientists is not very expensive. The teacher - led time is small, and it is often just a single lecture per week. However, if you want more engineers, all the more so. This requires teacher-led time from 8 to 17 every day, and you need to supplement lectures with exercises and seminars. It is a much more expensive education. There is nothing to say that all credits in Sweden are equally worth in effort. If we look at engineers as professionals, however, we can see that it is a more sought-after profession. We see this in the fortune - teller for the future. It is therefore a little strange that the government is investing unilaterally in more places even before the conclusions of the Steering and Resource Investigation have been obtained. Mr President, I would like to It is also a little strange that the Government beats its chest because unemployment is so low among those with post-secondary education. Of course, it is welcome that more Swedes have a job to go to. It is good for the whole of Sweden when more people have it. But it's hard to see that it would be the government's credit. We can see that unemployment is low as a result of economic activity. We have a strong demand from abroad because of the economic recovery in Europe, and we have a fairly strong domestic consumption as a result of the effectiveness of the job tax deductions. On the other hand, equal unemployment – the part of unemployment affected by the policy – remains at a standstill during the term of office. This should be taken on board by the Government and the Minister. After all, it is not the case that education and knowledge have been valued during the parliamentary term and the Red-Green Government, but rather the opposite. As I understand from the Government's response, no new reforms are being prepared that will change that. In the pipeline, apart from the investigation, it's pretty empty.
i-b6dee566380154aa-19	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson, for those comments! I'll try to comment on some of the things you mentioned. It is true that the various courses at universities and higher education institutions have different amounts of money that accompany them. You can see that some are cheaper and some are more expensive. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that the government has made efforts towards the humanist and social science education that has had the lowest amount of money and thus also the lowest percentage of the time spent on teaching. This has been done by adding the so-called quality millions. Nearly SEK 900 million is added during this term of office to raise the money and increase the teacher-led time. It is extremely important that we have high-quality higher education, whether in humanities, social sciences, technology or medicine. Engineering training struggles a bit with the same problems as teacher training. The search pressure isn't that high. We have a much greater need for engineers. The low search pressure has the same effect here as it has on the long subject teacher training: People with a little too low pre-knowledge, i.e. with low grades from upper secondary school, enter the education and do not complete it. We have major drop-outs in engineering training in the same way we do in subject teacher training. Something can be done about this, including by offering a base year, as many do. We are now looking at how we can dimension this right. Above all, it is a matter of ensuring that a base year gives competence to several specialisations in engineering education. There is work going on to ensure that we get more qualified people who also have the right prior knowledge to pass engineering training, so that the flow of engineering education is increased. It's a bit problematic that you don't see your own role. The Moderates were in charge of the government for eight years. During those years there was, among other things, recession and a major financial crisis. The demand for entry into higher education increased, as it often does when the labour market is weak. Nevertheless, only temporary efforts and no permanent expansion were made. What we are seeing now, when we have an economy that is tough on and going really well, is that we have many bottlenecks. We have a major matching problem, and there is a shortage of academically trained workers. Now we're expanding, and we're expanding with permanent locations. It should have started already under the previous government, but it was not. Then, now that the boom is coming, we would have been much better equipped for matching the labour market. What is very interesting and which is actually new is that we have full capacity utilisation throughout our higher education system right now, despite the fact that the labour market is doing so well. It's not usually like that. Demand for training places usually decreases when the labour market is strong. But there are many who want to continue their studies. Many older people also want to enter the university. They want to further educate themselves, train themselves or train themselves. Then we need to do a lot more. Then there is the question of increasing the attractiveness of the professions where the training has too low a search pressure – this applies, among other things, to teacher training. The government has invested in the teacher's salary lift. There are 3 billion annually, which has given 65 000 teachers 2 600 kroner a month. This contributes to increased attractiveness for the profession and thus to more applicants for teacher training.
i-b6dee566380154aa-27	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would like to raise two points that the Government mentions in its speech. The first is that it is a problem that students or students can too little when they leave high school and go to college. Many colleges have institutionalized that they have an overtake, because they know that many will drop out during the first academic year. But although it may be good to look over a basic year solution, the main focus should obviously be to steer up upper secondary school education and make sure that people actually have what it takes when they start at the university. As it is today, it looks a little different when ratings are given in different parts of the country. The second is what the alliance government did during the eight years and the economic crisis that was then in Sweden, Europe and the world. I can remind the Government that Sweden was the country of comparable countries that managed the economic crisis best. Among large parts of my generation, for example, and the rest of the 1990s, the economic crisis was not noticed at all. It might be worth having with you. Mr President, I would like to The Red - Green government has increased taxes on labor and hard work by over $40 billion. Sweden was already before the government started that work the country in the OECD where it paid the least to study. It seems that the policies pursued do not effectively encourage higher education and more knowledge when it does not make a difference in the wages of life as much as it does in other countries. What can be said in this context is that a country will see more of the values it encourages. The country where knowledge is highly valued will see more people make it a little extra. Knowledge takes effort—that's how it really is. It's not easy to go back to school. It's not just to get on a band and then be finished after three years. We need a whip, and we need carrots. Today, with a marginal tax of almost 60%, you can keep less than half of your salary when you get a raise. Progressivity in the tax system, as we know, is quite steep. I also think there should be progressivity. But when it is so steep that experts believe that the abolition of the defense tax would be cost neutral, there is some kind of warning sign. Mr President, I would like to If you want to increase the income of the student, it is the marginal tax that should be reduced. In some sense, it becomes a tax on higher education. However, as the Government expresses in its written reply and also in the debate, if we want to increase the link with the labour market, there is a whole battery of reforms that could be introduced. For example, indicators on what provides funds in the resource allocation system can be looked at. One could imagine an indicator based on students' grades on the final essay. One could imagine an indicator dealing with the number of citations in other universities' research. Or it could be an indicator, for example, about how many of the students who within two years of completing studies have received a job in the field they have studied. At present, we know that education inflation means that many jobs that previously only required upper secondary education now require higher education – but there is no requirement for which programme to have read. As a result, many with post-secondary skills get a job – it's good – but not in the field they've studied. It is in some sense a waste of time and money. It would be interesting to hear how the Minister views these proposals and whether she is open to making such a move if the steering and resource inquiry proposes it.
i-b6dee566380154aa-37	Mr President, I would like to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson says that it is unattractive to choose higher education in Sweden. Then you can think about why so many people apply for higher education, why there is a high search pressure and why the places are not enough for everyone who wants to read further. It is actually very attractive to study higher education in Sweden. They also have very good labour market prospects. Comparing with all other OECD countries is a bit problematic. Gross wages, i.e. wages before taxes, are then compared. It is true that they are lower in Sweden but also in the other Nordic countries. But you can make a more accurate comparison. It should be remembered that higher education is free of charge in Sweden. It is therefore paid for by society. You have the right to borrow and receive grants – these are very favourable conditions. There is also a large proportion of public pension in Sweden. They have low medical costs of their own. All this is financed and paid by society through the tax bill. This is not the case in the United States, for example. There an academic is expected to pay all this himself. In fact, when you adjust this according to purchasing power, Sweden and the other Nordic countries are above the average for an academic. Then there is the marginal tax. To reach levels close to 60 percent, you have to earn over $1,300 a month. I can say that the majority of Swedish academics are not there. It's a minority that earns so much. That is why this affects very few people. It is rather than having an academic education that leads to salaries over there, such as having a management job. There is also a difference between working in the private and public sectors. But I share the view that there are courses where we have too low a search pressure – and there is a great need for society. Some health training courses, especially for specialist nurses, are such. That is why, together with employers, we are now looking at how to make it more attractive to continue training as a nurse in order for us to do this. Then it is about the conditions both during the study period and afterwards. The same goes for teachers. After all, we inherited a large shortage of teachers – 60 000 teachers were expected to be missing until 2019. Now we're down to 52,000 teachers. The search pressure has gone up in itself, but there are still too few who are training against the need. We are also making an investment with the partners, with the teacher's salary boost, to make it more attractive to train as a teacher, because it is important both what it looks like when you come out and how it is valued in society at large. As far as dimensioning is concerned, in addition to having an investigation under way that will propose a coherent system instead of adding details and pulling out parts, it will also be a parliamentary reference group, and we look forward to the input of the Moderates in that discussion. However, it is important to remember that higher education should also lead to an innovation pressure on our labour market, both in the public and private sectors. People should not only be trained for today's or yesterday's labour market needs but also be able to start their own businesses and thus contribute to our having a strong labour market in the future.
i-b6dee566380154aa-45	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to the Government for that answer! To begin at the end of the Government's response, I have to say that it is welcome that education should encourage the setting up of own businesses and make sure that the cake grows rather than simply distributes it. However, I believe that Sweden's major challenge, not the forthcoming term of office but the next 50 years, will be a lot about how we retrain people in the middle of life. The new working life simply does not look like it did at the beginning of the 20th century. The government also says in some sort of passus that the Moderates want it as in the United States. Maybe it's a gleam because the United States is now a bit of a mess. I'd like to say that in some areas I might want it as in the United States, but better. Then the Government says a few things about the profitability of various educations. I think that the Government, after the steering and resource inquiry has arrived, needs to look at the training courses that lead to a lower life's salary than if you had taken a job right after high school. There are some such educations in Sweden, and I may think it's a bit of a mockery of the people who thus wander through three years of education and then start working, often in the public sector, and see themselves surrounded by their former fellow students who took a job right after the student. Otherwise, I have to say that I look forward to the proposals of the steering and resource inquiry and, above all, the proposals relating to labour market integration in higher education. I think that is the important thing if we are to strengthen the profitability of higher education, and I am convinced that this should be a priority area, not only for people in Sweden to educate themselves but also for us to attract foreign skills. We know that transparency leads to growth, and I would like to see more of that.
i-b6dee566380154aa-49	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson, for an interesting and rewarding debate on a subject that is very dear to both of us! First of all, I'll just say that I really share Jesper Skalberg Karlsson's perspective that you have to be able to educate yourself throughout your life. You need to train yourself, you need to be able to retrain and you need to be able to specialize or deepen yourself. We will also ensure that people who do not start higher education right after high school can do so later in life. We also need to ensure that these opportunities exist throughout the country and not only in the large cities. For example, 52 per cent of Sweden's export industry is located outside the large cities, which is why we need to be able to educate people on the spot. This is also the case for us to be able to cope with the supply of teachers, doctors and nurses throughout the country and not get too big a gap. When it comes to training for the needs of the labour market, the question is this: is it yesterday's labour market, what we know today, or is it tomorrow's labour market? It is incredibly important that we have a higher education with a long sustainability and that also helps to change Sweden so that we can meet both competitiveness and societal challenges. The specificity of higher education is to be safeguarded. It is about starting your own business, but it is also about contributing an innovative capacity to our companies and to the public sector. When it comes to pay, it is the employer's remuneration for work that is carried out. I agree that some employers have replaced some groups far too low. The teachers are one of those groups, and that is why we have now invested 3 billion in a teacher's salary lift.
i-Wz4sA31WuCUxDRb6ZqYUiq	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Lotta Johnsson has asked me whether Sweden has tabled an additional proposal in the Security Council to include human rights in Mr Minurso's mandate. Lotta Johnsson Fornarve has also asked whether Sweden will act in the UN Security Council to bring about the referendum that the UN decided on in 1991. The government supports the UN's work aimed at achieving a fair, mutually acceptable negotiated solution in which the right of the Western Sahara to self-determination is satisfied. On 28 April, Sweden, together with all the other members of the Security Council, voted in favour of Resolution 2351, which extended the mandate of the UN operation MINURSO. During the negotiations, Sweden acted to focus the resolution on reopened political negotiations and to include humanitarian issues, human rights and women's participation more clearly in the text. Our efforts contributed to the resolution highlighting humanitarian support for Sahrawi refugees, human rights and – for the first time – the inclusion of women in the political process. We pushed, and heard, the question of strengthening cooperation with the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, OHCHR, also to enable more field visits to the region. Sweden will also place two military observers at the disposal of the UN operation. The adoption of Resolution 2351 was preceded by the restoration of Minurso to full functionality and the withdrawal of Morocco and Polisario from the Guerguerat buffer zone. During the Security Council meeting where the resolution was adopted, Sweden stressed that a referendum should be considered in the process in the future. Our ultimate goal remains a solution to the conflict in Western Sahara, where the right of the Western Sahara to self-determination is satisfied. Recent progress clearly demonstrates the power and opportunities of diplomacy and the UN in this regard.
i-b6dee566380154aa-56	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Foreign Minister for his reply to my interpellation on Western Sahara. During Sweden's almost six months in the Security Council, a new resolution on Western Sahara has been voted through, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentions. The resolution supports efforts to resume negotiations between Morocco and Polisario. The surrounding world, and in particular the UN Security Council, has a great responsibility for allowing Morocco's illegal occupation of Western Sahara to continue, an occupation that has been going on for 42 years against the decisions of the UN and the International Court of Justice in The Hague that designate the occupation as unlawful. It is high time to change that, and I therefore expect Sweden to play an active role in this work, now that we are members of the UN Security Council. It is therefore good that Sweden has pushed for the process to resume. However, I wonder what it really means. What would really make a difference is if the UN Security Council were to speed up the process of bringing about the referendum on the independence of Western Sahara – a referendum negotiated and signed by both Morocco and the legitimate representative of the Western Sahara, Polisario, which should have been carried out back in 1992. But 25 years later, the referendum has not yet taken place, because of Morocco's systematic delaying tactics and sabotage. It is, of course, a failure of the Security Council and has also seriously damaged the Council's credibility and strengthened Morocco's position. In fact, the UN Force Minurso, which was set to monitor the outcome of the referendum, has been placed more and more in the hands of the occupying power. In order to regain control, the UN Security Council should speed up the process and set a date for the referendum. There is no other acceptable solution to the conflict, as I see it. It is good that Sweden has helped to highlight humanitarian support for Sahrawi refugees, human rights, women's inclusion in the political process and to strengthen cooperation with the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. In addition, Sweden has made available to Minurso two military observers. However, what would have really made a difference in terms of human rights would have been if Mr Minurso had been given an extended mandate in the new resolution to include human rights monitoring. But it didn't happen. The Sahrawi population in occupied territory is still completely unprotected. The reality of Western Sahara in the occupied area is marked by repression and systematic violations of human rights. It is difficult to see what Morocco has done to improve the human rights situation expressed in the resolution. The repression in the occupied Western Sahara is ongoing every day, which among other things the famous Western Sahara human rights activist Brahim Dahane recently testified about when he visited the Swedish parliament. He spoke about the rock-hard occupation and how the Sahrawi people are terrorized, arrested and subjected to illegal trials. In practice, there has been a long-standing state of emergency in the occupied Western Sahara. Morocco has total control, not the UN. Virtually no independent observers or journalists are allowed into the country. It is forbidden to criticise the King, Islam or Morocco's right to Western Sahara. An MR mandate for Minurso would clarify the violations of human rights in the occupied Western Sahara. It would also give the Sahrawi people new hope and an opportunity for restoration. I have not really been told how hard Sweden pushed that question in the Security Council.
i-b6dee566380154aa-66	Mr President, I would like to The government announced last year a new Western Sahara policy, which fully supports the UN process and the Secretary-General's efforts with a negotiated solution as a final goal. Nevertheless, what took place on 28 April was an important step in the right direction. Sweden voted in favour of the resolution, which extends the UN peace effort in Western Sahara. The unanimous adoption of the resolution also demonstrates the possibilities offered by the UN to bring about a political solution to the Western Sahara conflict. This conflict is one of the most protracted, just as Lotta Johnsson Fornarve described, and one of those that has been the longest on the Security Council's agenda. In 1975 a large number of Sahrawi people fled to western Algeria. After more than 40 years, refugees, now also their children and grandchildren, still live under severe hardships in refugee camps in the Algerian desert. Although there has been a cease-fire since 1991, it is true that the parties have not been able to get closer to a political solution either. Last year, the political process reached a low point. Political negotiations had stalled, and Morocco had also expelled parts of the UN's operation in Western Sahara. When Morocco entered the buffer zone in August that separates the parties, and Polisario replied by doing the same, the parties stood 120 metres apart. The risk of conflict was imminent. At the same time, the Security Council was in principle paralysed. What has happened, and what we think is promising right now in order to be able to resume the process, is that there is a new Secretary-General. When Mr Guterres took office as new UN Secretary-General, he made conflict prevention his top priority. To provide him with the best possible support, Sweden, which was then the Presidency of the Security Council, organised an open debate on conflict prevention. This is one of the crises that the new Secretary-General wants to prioritise. In addition, a new Special Representative has now been appointed. Now the name should be confirmed, but the name that appears shows that the issue is being taken seriously. It is a person with political weight who will be able to lead the process. It also means a lot. It also sends a signal to both parties that the UN is serious this time. It's a person with weight. We think we have created a new dynamic. This mandate has long been considered by the most difficult to negotiate in the Council. But here it became a momentum, with new dynamics that Sweden used. So it was also a kind of turning point. Sweden was very active in the Council to bring in texts on humanitarian aid for refugees, human rights and the inclusion of women. We did this because we realistically realised that, unfortunately, it is not possible to argue for the inclusion of an MR mandate in the mandate, as is the case with many other mandates. Nevertheless, it is a major step forward that these points are explicitly included in the resolution. We will continue to encourage a political solution.
i-b6dee566380154aa-74	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the clarifications. I very much agree that last year we experienced a low-water mark in relation to the process. It is positive that a new Secretary-General and a new Envoy have been appointed. That's a good thing. I hope that the new resolution is a step in the right direction. Nevertheless, I am disappointed that Mr Minurso is the only peacekeeping force that does not have the mandate to monitor compliance with human rights. That is remarkable, to say the least. It is unreasonable for the Sahrawis to be left completely unprotected. Although it is difficult to hear an increase in the mandate for human rights, I think that we must continue to pursue the call actively for Mr Minurso to be given a mandate to monitor human rights. Even if it's heavy and hard, we can't give up. There are so many examples of Morocco's human rights violations. A clear example of the abuse of the occupying power is the events associated with the peaceful protests in 2010 in Gdeim Izik. Thousands of Western Sahara formed tent camps in protest against the occupation and looting of the country's raw materials. Moroccan authorities responded by attacking the camp with rubber bullets, water cannons, tear gas and violence. Hundreds of people were arrested. Of them, 24 were sentenced to long prison sentences in a military court – after being forced to sign confessions after being tortured. It is a ruling that has been strongly criticised by the outside world, including Amnesty International, the UN and others. Another example of the brutality of the occupying power is the abuse of children, as shown in the report prepared by the British NGO Adala UK and sent to the Security Council for discussion of the new resolution. The report, based on hundreds of testimonies with Sahrawi children in occupied territory, shows that children have been subjected to serious violence and oppression. Children have been imprisoned, tied up, beaten and tortured by Moroccan police. Many of the children have been traumatized as a result of the fear - filled treatment. That is why it is so vitally important that the UN should take responsibility for human rights in the occupied area and not turn its eyes away. It is also important that the Security Council clearly rejects Morocco's plundering of Western Sahara's natural resources, such as phosphate and fishing. It is an extremely profitable plunder for Morocco, and it helps to strengthen the occupying power. It is also important that Sweden and other EU countries respect the decision of the European Court of Justice of December 2016. The judgment states that Morocco is not entitled to Western Sahara's natural resources. I very much hope that Sweden will stand up for international law and defend Western Sahara's right to its natural resources and raw materials in the future. It is important that Sweden is clear that Morocco has no right whatsoever to the occupied Western Sahara. The area is designated as a non-self-governing territory by the UN. Morocco cannot claim this area under international law. No country in the world has recognised Morocco's right to the country either. On the other hand, it would be very useful for Sweden and other countries to recognise the Sahrawi state. The absolutely most important task of the Security Council is to ensure that the referendum, which has in fact been agreed upon once by both parties, finally comes about to put an end to the long conflict. The plans for the referendum are there. According to many observers, it would only take a few months to make the vote happen if the political will is there.
i-RmYFBjcEiqPaAq1Rau8PEg	Mr President, I would like to Two comments, the first to the discussion on humanitarian issues. During the negotiations on extending the mandate for Minurso, we from Sweden focused on the importance of humanitarian aid and respect for human rights. It was then that the resolution highlighted humanitarian aid for Sahrawi refugees, human rights and the role of women. We also pushed and heard the question of strengthening cooperation with the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and making visits by him, for example. What about this? After all, initiatives have been taken in the past to get Mr Minurso's mandate to include monitoring of human rights. Such an initiative was taken by the US Security Council no later than 2013, but it turned out that support for that initiative was lacking. From the Swedish side, we would like to see the mandate extended, but we must be realistic and aware that there is no political opportunity to get through what it looks like in the Security Council now. However, we have made a constructive contribution to highlighting the importance and respect for human rights in the Sahara, and I believe that it is considered that we have been successful in actually getting into the resolution. The second comment is on this with the Association Agreement and hence also the Agriculture and Fisheries Trade Agreement and the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union that this does not apply to the territory of Western Sahara. The Court found, among other things, that the consent of the Sahrawi people is necessary for such an agreement to be concluded and that such consent was lacking. Against this background, the European External Action Service and the Commission have drawn up a proposal for a negotiating mandate. It aims to conclude an additional agreement to the Association Agreement. The negotiating mandate was presented in May and the Council gave its approval. At that time, the government made a clear national declaration that a future agreement must respect international law, including the Charter of EU Judgment concerning the consent of the Sahrawi people. The government has acted during the negotiations and continues to act, now within the framework of the agreements, to protect international law and to respect the right of the Sahrawi people to self-determination. That is our attitude and our line on these issues – that they should be pursued in accordance with our policy for Western Sahara. We will continue to do so.
i-b6dee566380154aa-89	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. Of course, it is a good thing that we have got some wordings on human rights, just as the Minister for Foreign Affairs makes it clear. Especially with the participation of women in the process, I think it is very important. But what really matters in terms of human rights is that Mr Minurso is given a mandate to monitor human rights. It is not reasonable that Minurso as the only peacekeeping force does not have that right. Although it is difficult to get it through, we must not stop pushing the issue, I mean, but we must continue to fight for Minurso to have an MR mandate. The referendum is also an incredibly central point. There the UN must set its foot and really decide that the referendum will take place and set a date. It's not an absurdity. It is high time that this long occupation, which has now been going on for 42 years, finally ended and that refugees who have been in refugee camps for so many years returned to their country. I have visited the Sahrawi refugee camps several times. I've visited the liberated part of the country. I've tried to get into the occupied area, but I've been stopped by Morocco. All the Sahrawi people I meet confirm that it ferments among the younger Sahrawi people in particular, who feel a great frustration that nothing happens and therefore want to resume the armed struggle. This has so far been stopped, but I think there is a serious risk that the armed struggle will resume unless something really happens. We do not want to see another war in Africa; we certainly do not want that. But it's getting urgent if we're gonna stop it, I think.
i-b6dee566380154aa-95	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Johnsson Fornarve, for a good debate on an urgent subject! I agree that the important thing now is to be able to put our hope in a renewed UN track. As I described, it has reached its low point, where there was no confidence in the UN's ability to address this issue from any point of view. Now we have a new Secretary-General, we have a new envoy or a new special representative and we have seen that there is a new dynamism and a new political will to address these issues. I think that the resolution was an expression of this and that we managed well to bring these elements in as a first step. We would prefer to see a mandate containing an MR component, as the other UN resolutions and mandates do. But it has been politically impossible, and we must be realists. It is important to take steps by step and to ensure that we have a good working environment and good opportunities for a new envoy to take on this. Nevertheless, we believe that the positive steps that have been taken are examples of what the force of diplomacy and the UN can do and what opportunities can be created. What we intend to do from the Swedish side is to implement the Western Sahara policy with humanitarian aid, focus on human rights and international law, high-level contacts with the parties and civil society and to strengthen Minurso. Our humanitarian aid to refugees continues, and we hope to see opportunities for longer-term forms of aid. We also make available to Mr Minurso two military observers. We hope for a solution to the conflict in Western Sahara where the right of the Sahrawi people to self-determination is satisfied.
i-b6dee566380154aa-101	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad has asked me what I and the government want to do to lure back the police officers who continue to leave the profession prematurely. He has also asked what measures I and the government are taking to increase interest and fill the places in police training. Finally, he has asked whether the Social Democrats' statement to employ 10 000 more in the police is also the objective of the government and how it should be implemented in concrete terms, given the situation we are in today. The Government has proposed and announced additions to the Swedish Police Authority for a total of just over SEK 2.7 billion during the period 2017 – 2020. The Government sees a need for the activities of the Police Authority to continue to be strengthened in order to meet the Government's ambitions. Therefore, the Government intends to return to this issue in the 2018 Budget Bill. I have recently held talks with the Police Authority and the Police Association on how best to design the supply of skills to meet the demand for increased recruitment in the coming years as well as on the working environment and working conditions of police employees. We agree that good work environment, good working conditions and high status contribute to more people wanting to become police officers, more police officers remain in the profession and more of those who have stopped being attracted back. It is basically the responsibility of the Political Authority to work actively on these issues. The fact that not all places in police training have recently been filled has several reasons, such as the fact that suitable candidates have chosen to drop out of recruitment. In addition, the Government has highlighted the strained situation in the review activities of the Swedish Defence Agency's recruitment authority, which risks leading to insufficient testing of candidates. The Police Authority and Totalförsvarets recruitment authority are working to ensure the inflow of the necessary number of suitable candidates. Of course, there should not be empty seats in police training. I will therefore closely monitor the development of the recruitment process.
i-b6dee566380154aa-105	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior, for your answer. The reason why the Liberals put another interpellation is still a problem in Sweden with police drop-out – police officers who end prematurely, police officers who retire early, police officers who may want to go down on time and take part-time pension but do not get it and eventually leave the profession. What concerns me most, Mr President, is that the figures I received a month ago show that there are more younger police officers leaving the profession – police officers under 40 years of age. They have thus been educated for two and a half years and actively sought a very important profession but then choose for various reasons to leave the Police Authority. That is what is serious. We can play with numbers: Have we had more police officers, more police employees or fewer police officers? But I note for our part, on the basis of the evidence I have from the police, that this year, for example, there are 349 police officers who, for various reasons, have left the agency – some of whom have, of course, been in early retirement. I think this is very serious and we are barely halfway through the year. What will be the consequence if this trend continues? Every day we can read reports in the media but also make our own visits to vulnerable and particularly vulnerable areas. The police recently reported an increase in the number of particularly vulnerable areas where there are parallel structures. You don't dare testify, tell the police, tell them who shot who or help the community to overcome the shootings and murders we see. But we should not just focus on the particularly vulnerable areas. There are also other municipalities and districts in our country where there is no police presence. There, insecurity is felt and the police have moved further away from the citizens. In this debate I have another question, Mr President. The Social Democrats and the Minister for Home Affairs recently went out and said that they want to find 10 000 more police workers. But we are not even able to fill the 800 places in police training today, with three universities spread across the country. There are still between 100 and 150 empty seats. It would take tremendous efforts but also an increased search pressure to reach 800 filled places within existing frameworks. I have read the answer, Mr President, several times – upside down, back and forth. But I haven't found the answer from the Home Secretary to the question of how the government will get 10,000 more police employees. How's he gonna attract and recruit? Nor should I, although we have repeatedly raised this issue for a year and a half, answer the question of what the government is doing to stop the drop-out. What does the government do to lure police officers back into this important profession? I do not get any answers, and that is totally unacceptable.
i-b6dee566380154aa-114	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad has a high tone. For the sake of the House, perhaps we should inform him that the staff turnover of police officers at the Police Authority is 4.9% in a whole year. The cut for government agencies in Sweden is 12%, i.e. more than twice as high as for the police. Perhaps Roger Haddad will be able to inform the House about the turnover of staff at the Liberal Parliament so that we can compare. It is a business that Roger Haddad himself is responsible for. Then we'll see what the escape looks like from the Liberal Parliament Office. Because it is true, Mr President, that police officers are not serfs. In fact, they can also choose a different profession, and they also retire. More specifically, half of the turnover of police staff is due to age departures. It is true, as Roger Haddad says, that we have more than doubled the number of seats at the Police College, compared with the time when the moderate-led government with the support of the Liberals ruled Sweden. It is also true that more people are being admitted to the Police College now than when the Liberals were in government. Something that Roger Haddad might have mentioned but did not do is that at the last admission there were 9,000 people who applied for the 800 places. Roger Haddad is welcome to compare with other professions and what the search pressure looks like to them. The pressure to apply to the police is even so great that the admission authority finds it difficult to keep up with the increase in the number of applicants. This is one reason why we are not filling the seats. What else does the government want to do? A larger recruitment campaign will be launched by the Political Authority, not to increase the number of applicants, but above all to increase the breadth of applicants so that we have more with different backgrounds who are seeking the police profession. I believe that this is important in order to increase the quality of police activities. We are also planning to open two new universities, and we have greatly increased the possibility of both applying and studying remotely to the police. Much of the practical elements of police training can now be done at the local police station. This makes the connection to local police work stronger. We have also changed so that at the time of admission you will already know where you will work to make it even more attractive to apply and work as a police officer. In addition to everything I have now said, we need to improve the working conditions and working environment of police workers, both in order for the police to be an attractive employer and for people who have chosen to try out other professions to want to come back to the police. We now have a national collection with the police union and the other unions to work together on what is needed to improve working conditions and working conditions. Do the Liberals want to be part of that work, so absolutely! One of the things that the police union highlights as important in raising the status of work is to make police education a higher education. It would be interesting to hear what the Liberals think about this demand from police workers.
i-b6dee566380154aa-122	Mr President, I would like to Under Minister of the Interior Anders Ygeman, Sweden has fewer police officers, even in external service. If I am wrong, I want you, Anders Ygeman, to correct me in this Chamber. Every day we can hear the Minister of Home Affairs go out to the public and say that we have never had so many police officers, and now he has started adding police workers. But this debate is about the number of police – uniformed police and police officers who have been two and a half years and work not least in external service but also indoors. The number of police officers in Sweden, Anders Ygeman, is fewer now. We've never had as few cops as the last seven years, during your time as a minister. We have 19 676 police officers, but there are also 300 police aspirants. In fact, the number of trained police officers on duty is even lower, about 19,300. However, the Minister for the Interior does not say anything about what is most important in order to increase the attractiveness of the profession and attract policemen back, namely the working environment, as has been mentioned, and pay and career opportunities. Just over a month ago, we had a similar debate on wages, and then the government said that this is the responsibility of the employers' parties. That the Social Democrats go out promising a national teacher's salary bet is obviously okay, but not a national police salary bet. I want word today, Home Secretary. Why does the government not propose wage reform to keep and attract back the hundreds of police officers who have stopped? This is quite possible. I recently read an interview with National Police Commissioner Dan Eliasson in Svenska Dagbladet. He said he has no way to raise the police's wages. I sometimes hear the Prime Minister and also the Minister for the Interior go out and say that we need to raise police salaries. I don't know if it's sloppy or substantiated. Unless the head of the national police can do so, Mr President, I must reasonably turn to the government responsible and the minister responsible, namely the Minister for the Interior. Is it the government that has to give the signal to the chief police officer and the police authority that you set aside x kroner in the budget in order for them to start a wage reform? Yes or no? As far as the number of admitted to police training is concerned, I have noted that many have applied, and that is very positive. It was mentioned here that there are 9 000 applicants. But it is 693 of these 9 000 students who are called for police training in the autumn. We will see how many of these 693 actually begin their education. It is not enough that they just pass the tests, are called and adopted. They must also begin and preferably complete the training. We Liberals have announced this for a long time. We already spent a lot of money last year, which the government did not, on increasing the number of civilian workers but also the number of police officers. In order for us from the Liberals to be realistic and credible, and in order to reach 5 000 more police officers, we constantly stress that one is completely dependent on attracting back hundreds of trained police officers who have left early because they have not felt safe in the Police Authority. What is the response of the Social Democrats?
i-b6dee566380154aa-132	Mr President, I would like to I note, however, that I tried to answer all Roger Haddad's questions, including those which were beyond what the interpellation was about. But Roger Haddad did not even try to answer my question. Maybe he'll do it in his last post. Although it upsets Roger Haddad, it is still a fact that we are spending more money on the police than we have ever done before. We have more police employees in Sweden than we have ever had before. The number of police officers varies a little. But the number is around 20,000 – sometimes a little above and sometimes a little below. It's not harder than that. As we enter the electoral movement, we are likely to again have more police officers than we have ever had before. I hope Roger Haddad will be pleased about that. I would also like to emphasise that many of the civil servants we have in the police do very important work and help solve many serious crimes. I would warn against making a contradiction between those who have police training and those who have other important training courses. We have important analysts, and without them I do not think that the murders at Our restaurant & bar in Gothenburg, for example, could have been sorted out. Today, we have civilian staff in charge of border control in the south. This is a very important piece of work. We have civilian employees who are involved in workplace checks. The number of workplace checks has tripled. 232 persons without a residence permit have been found in these workplace checks. There are three times more workplace controls now than when the Liberals were in government. When it comes to wage formation, we have something in Sweden called the Swedish model. This means that salaries in Sweden are set in negotiations between workers, organised in free trade unions, and employers. It is a model that has served Sweden well but which has also served Sweden's employees well. It is a model that has been able to combine real wage increases and low inflation. I think that's something we're all supposed to watch out for. We shall as little as possible go in and poke in and, according to our own opinion, influence this wage formation. It is good that Roger Haddad today says he wants to raise wages. At the same time, he wants to form a government with other parties that say they want to lower wages. The question then is: is it in this House that wages should be set? Is this where we are going to decide whether nurses are going to get increased or reduced wages and whether new arrivals in the labour market are going to get reduced or increased wages? Or do we believe in the Swedish model where wages are negotiated between employers and employees? I believe that if we want real wage increases in the long term, we must safeguard the Swedish model. We can only look out into the world around us, where clumping politicians have been in and poked at wage formation. It's rarely ended well. Although I am proud of the teacher's salary boost that the government has made, there are still lessons to be learned from this. Receipt has not been clearly positive from the school-based workers' organisations. I think that few would like to see this in other areas of policy. It is true that we have a little growing pain in our intake, as Roger Haddad expresses. That's because we have a more than twice as large admission as when we had a bourgeois government. We have more students than when we had a bourgeois government. I am convinced that it will also give more police officers. We're working towards something like the same goal. We have a slightly higher ambition than the Liberals. But let's work together to get Sweden to have more and better police officers.
i-b6dee566380154aa-142	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to address the civil servants in the police, who are doing an important job. In the Liberals' budget from last autumn, more money was allocated to hiring 1,100 more civilians in the Police Authority, in addition to the government budget. So do not come, Minister of the Interior, and tell the Liberals that we are not investing in civilian workers! The effort on them must definitely go hand in hand with the effort on the police. Mr President, I would like to I understand that the Minister of Home Affairs does not have the finances to tell him how to reach 10 000 more police workers, regardless of division, and certainly not how to achieve a number of thousand more police officers. It is not enough rhetoric. It must be credible and realistic. I have spent half a day with the Recruiting Authority looking at how many more people need to apply, are adopted and so on to achieve these astronomical figures. We are talking about 25% or 30% more in all categories. You have no credible funding or recruitment plan. That is why wage initiatives are important. Once again, the Minister for the Interior has one speech left. The head of the Swedish police says that, within the framework of the Swedish model of the labour market, he cannot raise the salaries of the police even if he would like to. The state is the employer of Swedish police. Then, as a member of the Committee on Justice, I think it is reasonable to ask the head of the National Police Commissioner, namely the Minister for the Interior: Are you going to take responsibility and present a salary reform in relation to the Swedish police?
i-b6dee566380154aa-147	Mr President, I would like to I'll start with the last thing Roger Haddad brought up. We will be sending more money to the police in the budget that will come this autumn. Roger Haddad will have to wait until this budget is presented with the exact figures. To avoid any misunderstandings, I would like to say once again that we have more police employees than when the Liberals were in charge of Sweden. We spend more money on the police than when the Liberals were in charge of Sweden. We bring more students into police training than when the Liberals were in charge of Sweden. We have more training places for policemen than when the Liberals were in charge of Sweden. We have more police officers coming into distance education than when the Liberals were in charge of Sweden. We are not satisfied with this, despite the fact that on all these points we have moved forward compared to when the Liberals were in charge of Sweden. We want more. That is why we have set the target of 10 000 more police employees in Sweden. That is why we want to start two new police colleges, which is why we have started talks with the police union about how we can improve the working environment and working conditions of our police officers, and that is why we have provided more financial resources to the police in our budgets. I'm basically proud of the hard work that a lot of cops are doing out there. We need to get even more out of the police and the resources of the police. The cops who work out there need more workmates. They must have better equipment and competitive working conditions. In this way, we will build a good police force better, and in this way we will also be able to attract more new police officers into the profession. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I note that during the eight years they were responsible for the Swedish police, the Liberals did not feel it was important to make any reform of the police pay. Much of the salary reduction that the Swedish police have achieved during these years.
i-b6dee566380154aa-152	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson has asked me what my short-term plan to strengthen information security on our agencies is and what the long-term strategy to protect society from attacks on IT systems is. Information security is a high priority. The government has taken a number of measures to strengthen society's information security. Mandatory cyber-incident reporting for state authorities has been introduced, an investigation into risks associated with outsourcing of security-sensitive activities has been set up and a technical detection and warning system aimed at the most protected activities is provided by the Defence Radio Institution. There is ongoing work to modernise and tighten up the Security Act. The Swedish Civil Protection Agency has been provided with increased resources to strengthen society's resilience to cyber attacks, and the Swedish Armed Forces has the Government's mission to develop and strengthen Sweden's cyber defence with the support of the Swedish Defence Radio Facility and possibly other relevant authorities. The government will shortly present a national strategy for society's information and cyber security. The strategy will help to create long-term conditions for society's actors to work effectively with information and cyber security and to raise awareness and knowledge of these issues in society. The EU Directive on a high common level of security in networks and information systems also means that specific security measures and cyber-incident reporting will be required for certain providers of essential and digital services. The Government has commissioned a special investigator to propose how the NIS Directive should be implemented in Swedish law, and the report of the investigation is currently being referred to. I will continue to closely monitor efforts to strengthen society's information security and, if necessary, take further action.
i-b6dee566380154aa-158	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. Cybersecurity, and more specifically Swedish cybersecurity, is a very important issue. It's a known fact that we're very vulnerable. The FRA went out earlier this year and told us that Sweden is exposed every month to 10,000 cyber attacks from foreign power. They also told us that there are cyber spies who are actively working on being able to extinguish Sweden, something that, for example, Ukraine has been exposed for two years in a row. Last night was a cold night last year... I think it was December 22nd... when up to a quarter of a million Ukrainians were out of power. What this could have for consequences in a twilight situation in Swedish defence is something we can only speculate on, but we are very vulnerable. An attack on Sweden is, of course, taking place on the weakest point, and this is a weak point. It is also something that has been shown in various ways; for example, the Swedish National Audit Office conducted a survey ten years ago and another study recently, and it was concluded that it has not improved. It is pointed out that the state authorities are working individually on this and do not have a specific level. So there will be very different levels of how it works, and they say it will not be good. It gets expensive, and it doesn't work well enough. Then the question is: What, more specifically, does the Government intend to do? I am a member of the Defense Committee, and we were in Lithuania just recently. There is impressive work on cybersecurity. It has simply made it possible to have a special authority that is responsible for the armed forces, the state authorities and also IT infrastructure that is important for the country. It is also careful to have legislation that works and that allows you, for example, to shut down a computer – wherever it is in the country – as long as it is needed if important information can be traced from there. It would be very beneficial and interesting in the next post to hear more specifically what is the next step. Does the Government think it's okay for us today to have six authorities in charge of cybersecurity? Isn't there a very high risk of falling between the chairs? Is it not better to create, as in Lithuania, a cybersecurity authority? Many other countries have it, and the authority is then responsible. The Swedish National Audit Office pointed out that MSB did not give enough hands-on when it comes to how to do it. The question is whether this is something the government sees in front of it. How does the Government view the legislation – is it sufficient? I am sure that the Government has looked at the Baltic States and Lithuania and that he knows roughly how it has been put up there. Given that the cyberattacks are happening--we heard this weekend about it in the UK--what is the government's plan to improve cybersecurity more specifically?
i-b6dee566380154aa-165	Mr President, I would like to First of all, let me note that those who propose a cybersecurity authority do not think that, for example, the FRA should stop its cybersecurity work, which means that there would be seven authorities who were responsible instead of sex. You cannot release the individual authority's responsibility for its own information security and IT security. It therefore risks becoming a game for the gallery – it sounds politically powerful but is in practice a less secure solution. The criticism by the Swedish National Audit Office Mikael Oscarsson is of course gravitating. But it would still have been nice if you told us what was the main point of the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism, Mikael Oscarsson, namely that the bourgeois government had not acted despite the report eight years earlier. It had – that was the most important point – not introduced mandatory IT incident reporting, even though the National Audit Office had proposed it. As a humbly responsible minister, I can note that we have now done this and have thus scored the most important point in the review by the National Audit Office, which the bourgeois-led government did not manage for eight years in power. We're moving on, too. We are strengthening the security law, i.e. both the classification of information and the security responsibilities of the various authorities. We will shortly be presenting a new national information and cyber security strategy, as I expressed in my response. We have instructed all the security authorities to report on the actions they are taking for their systematic security work. We have given increased funding to the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness to strengthen the ability to resist cyber attacks and strengthen psychological defence. We have received the study on the NIS Directive, where there are likely to be additional areas in society that are covered by the mandatory cyber incident reporting. We have also developed proposals for how the Swedish Civil Protection Agency (MSB) can provide sensor capabilities to the authorities. It also increases the value for authorities of participating and contributing to the mandatory IT incident reporting system. All in all, we take a wide range of measures to strengthen our ability to detect and manage cyber attacks. This is an issue that will not go away. As society is increasingly digitising – as information is increasingly available in paper and digital form – it requires active security work for everyone who manages the information. What information is most important to protect? How can we protect information? It may even be the case that the most security-dependent authorities may have the off-grid systems, that is, without internet access, and at worst only have them in analogue form – in paper form – to ensure that the information is not disseminated. However, other authorities and activities need to have high security ambitions.
i-b6dee566380154aa-171	Mr President, I would like to As I was in the past, this is a big and growing problem. We have seen how to act in election movements in a little different parts of the world, not least in America. Recently, the FRA also went out and pointed out a government actor who was responsible for the very comprehensive cyber attack Cloud Hopper against Sweden. This was something that struck us at the beginning of April. The FRA reviewed how a foreign state infiltrates companies and authorities through service providers. Harmful code is placed to create a remote control. The foreign state comes via trusted administrator accounts to customers of service providers, government agencies, state companies and industries. The foreign state can also access their network. After that, the foreign state can take the information available – as in a kiosk, more or less – entirely so. This is exactly what the Swedish National Audit Office pointed out when it said that cybersecurity is far too bad in a wide range of authorities. Of course, this is the fault of the alliance government – it is always so in interpellation debates. Although the government has now been in charge for three years, it always points to something that happened eight or twelve years ago. But now, Mr President, the responsibility lies with the government to do something. Another incident occurred in May. At that time, at least 99 of the world's 195 independent states were affected by a cyberattack. This was another type of attack, where computers were locked and the attackers demanded the equivalent of $5,000 to unlock them. This stopped operations in Britain and created problems around the world. In March, the Norwegian Armed Forces were also severely attacked. Does the Government consider it reasonable that six authorities share the responsibility? If the government doesn't want a new authority, he could at least give one authority the main responsibility-- wouldn't that be more reasonable? This authority could provide the assistance requested by the state authorities, as pointed out in the Swedish National Audit Office's report. There is currently no minimum level at which the authorities need to lie, which means that security varies very much between the different authorities. The question then is: how will this be resolved? It is good that the reporting of incidents has come, but what about private companies? Is it not reasonable that they too should report incidents? So the question remains: how does the government intend to act in the future? And how does the Minister view the system that exists in Lithuania, which is outstanding in terms of cyber security?
i-b6dee566380154aa-181	Mr President, I would like to I think the example that Mikael Oscarsson mentioned with ransomware illustrates the problem quite well. This was a security hole that was widely known. The companies, authorities and private individuals who either had updated their software or had a working firewall were therefore not susceptible to this threat. This is the most rudimentary level of cybersecurity – one should have a working firewall and updated software. There is nothing in our government structure to ensure that this happens. Rather, it is the individual authority, the individual private individual and the individual company that must take responsibility for ensuring that the most basic IT infrastructure is in place. It would be like asking why we do not have a responsible lock authority when someone has broken into the door when the door was open. There must be a responsibility of its own. It is crystal clear that the authorities have this responsibility and that they should take it. However, in order to further clarify this, a new security law is now in place. There we clarify the responsibilities of the authorities, the level at which they should be, and the classification of the different types of information and the security measures to be taken. Mikael Oscarsson asked whether mandatory cyber incident reporting should not also apply to private sectors that are important to society as a whole. My simple answer to that question is: Yes. It comes with the NIS Directive. I believe that it is the eight sectors that are identified there, including the banking and financial world, that should be part of this. I think it's important to strengthen our ability. The mandatory IT incident reporting is of course also important in order to strengthen the possibility for others to benefit from this – if someone has experienced a threat or some kind of influence, the other authority can be strengthened. So we are rolling this out. But regardless of whether it is FRA, the police, MSB or Mikael Oscarsson after asked the digital security authority, the authority in question will not be out updating people's software or firewalls. You have to cope with that part of cybersecurity yourself – as a private person, as a company and as a public authority. I went to the FBI the other year. They have produced a list of the eight most common security gaps, through which thousands of people are trespassed. These eight safety gaps are known. They're published on every website. They've been printed up in newspapers by the FBI. They are included in every update of Windows and firewalls. Yet millions are affected by this. The answer to this is not a new authority. Instead, the answer is to raise awareness among users, IT security managers, municipalities and authorities. You cannot place the responsibility for cyber security on the caretaker, but you must take responsibility for the information you handle and for the activities you carry out, as in all other aspects of the operation. It is not something separate besides, it is part of the core business. That is why it is also wrong to propose that we have a special cybersecurity authority. This is part of the basic mission. It is part of what you do, and you have to do that security. It's just like the lock on the door.
i-b6dee566380154aa-191	Mr President, I would like to It is important to have locks on the door, but I think the Minister makes it a little too easy by saying that this is something that everyone should think about. This is something that is being upgraded around the world. This is something that is being highlighted as an increasing threat. During the Defence Committee's visit to Lithuania, it became very clear that there is a great deal of care to have legislation in place. In a critical situation, this may have a decisive impact on the country. I mentioned earlier the attack that Ukraine suffered, where the country was extinguished and the electricity flow disappeared on cold nights. If other things stop working – for example, power or some other type of communication – I think it is important to see the fallpipe mentality that exists in Sweden in this area, because we have six different actors. My proposal and that of the Christian Democrats is a cybersecurity authority, which many other countries have. This can be done by giving an authority, preferably MSB, the main responsibility and then providing the practical assistance requested by the authorities. However, I do not think that the IT consultants we talked about, which cost so much money, need be concerned, Mr President. They will also find work in the future. But I would urge the government to look at Lithuania and the law to strengthen this area, because it will be needed in the future.
i-b6dee566380154aa-197	Mr President, I would like to The question is not whether our protection against cyber attacks is important, but how do we strengthen our capabilities? Then I think a special IT security authority would be a worse solution than what we have now. That conclusion has also been reached in several investigations, and I think they have made the right assessment. We are now strengthening our capabilities with a new national strategy and a new security law, and we have introduced the mandatory cyber-incident reporting that the previous government was unable to implement in eight years. Now we are expanding its capacity to more industries with the transposition of the EU NIS Directive. This does not mean that we have come far enough. We need to do more together. But we have taken a number of strong, strong measures to tighten up Swedish IT readiness and protection.
i-b6dee566380154aa-200	Mr President, I would like to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson what measures he and the government intend to take to address the problems, such as human trafficking and street violence, associated with the organised begging in Sweden. Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has also asked if Morgan Johansson and the government consider today's legislation to be inadequate, and if so, what measures the government intends to take to strengthen the legislation. The interpellation has been handed over to me to answer. In December 2015, the Police Authority presented a situational picture of crime linked to vulnerable EU citizens. The assessment was that most of the vulnerable EU citizens begging in Sweden do so voluntarily without any connection to organised crime. However, some groups that beg are controlled by criminal actors and are subjected to, among other things, trafficking in human beings. It is not reasonable for anyone in Sweden to have to beg for their livelihood. It is also totally unacceptable that people who are vulnerable should be exploited or subjected to crime. The government has therefore taken a number of measures aimed at ensuring that no one has to beg in Sweden. In the summer of 2015, the government presented a package of measures to combat vulnerability and begging. The package of measures mainly involves international collaboration, clearer rules in Sweden and close cooperation with civil society. As the long-term solution exists in the home countries of vulnerable EU citizens, the government has signed cooperation agreements with Romania and Bulgaria. Cooperation has resulted in a very good climate for dialogue and strengthened bilateral relations. The County Administrative Board of Stockholm County has the Government's mission to develop cooperation and coordinate work with vulnerable EU citizens. The County Administrative Board is responsible for competence development efforts, is an advisory function and will contribute to a more uniform work towards the group. There is already the possibility for municipalities to regulate, through local regulations, e.g. the collection of money, provided that this can lead to a disorder or security risk in public places. It is a police task to monitor public order and security and intervene against interference. The police also intervene at the present time, for example when people behave disorderly or litter. The police also act, of course, if there is a suspicion that people begging are victims of human trafficking. On 1 July this year, a new procedure will be introduced at the Swedish Enforcement Authority for handling illegal residences. The new rules on removal will make it easier for landowners, among others, to regain the right to their land or building. The 2014 human trafficking investigation has made proposals to ensure strong criminal protection against trafficking in human beings or other exploitation of vulnerable persons, for example for begging. The government is now working on the proposals made by the investigation, which have been out of date and intend to come back with proposals before the end of the year.
i-b6dee566380154aa-210	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would like to start the debate by saying that the use of the concept of organised begging in my interpellation leaves some to be desired. Of course, begging is to some extent organized, for who would ever in such a vulnerable situation as many of these people are struggling for their livelihood in a non-organized way? How do you beg non-organized? Of course, if I'm going to have to beg for my uphill smile and see someone sitting in a street corner, I'd say, sit here and I'll sit in another. To the extent that you use the concept of organised begging, you should therefore know that it leaves some to be desired. Instead, what I would like to highlight in this debate is that part of the begging where there is the fact that criminal actors control the lives of vulnerable people, expose them to human trafficking and oppress them for their own economic gain. This could involve exploiting the situation of the Roma, for example, when you are not a Roma person. We know from the past that there are strong contradictions between Roma and Romanians in Romania, including the fact that Roma children are forced to go by far even though they do not need it. It can also be about men, often the head of the family, who force their wife and children to beg in Sweden. There are several examples in Stockholm City and County that there are strong family ties between people begging and that it is therefore difficult to investigate crimes. The fact that many people of Roma descent have zero confidence in government also plays a role, and that is perhaps not surprising when the first Roma who came to Europe from northern India and Pakistan were sold as slaves to England. Mr President, I would like to In addition to this description of the background problem of vulnerable EU migrants begging in Sweden, we need to acknowledge that many activities around begging and beggars are criminal and problematic. It is already illegal to drive around in a cancelled car, to stay in another EU country without insurance and to stay here for more than three months. Nevertheless, several of these crimes are committed routinely. It is welcome that, as the Minister says, the new procedure at the Kronofogdemyndigheten on 1 July, but it has also been illegal in the past to settle on other people's land without permission. So most of what disturbs and destroys is already illegal. As the Minister mentions, the police are responsible for maintaining law and order in our country. Yet, begging and nearby crime are increasing, especially in our capital city. My question to the Minister for Home Affairs is therefore whether any new legislation or initiative is being prepared in this area. I think what the government has done so far has been good. It is good that the issue has been examined, that a package of measures has been put in place and that a cooperation agreement has been signed with Romania and Bulgaria. But you should be able to keep two thoughts in your head at the same time and know that it has not been enough, so my question is nevertheless: Does the Minister of the Interior think that today's legislation is sufficient and, if not, what measures do you see as possible and possible?
i-b6dee566380154aa-219	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Jesper Skalberg Karlsson for clarifying the concept. I think that is a good thing, and that makes it easier to conduct the debate. I have some doubts about Jesper Skalberg Karlsson's claim that the begging is increasing. SVT Nyheter does a compilation of the begging situation in Sweden's municipalities every year, and in the latest it is 76 Komm uner that states that the begging is decreasing and 4 municipalities that indicate that d et increased. The others – I think it was in the order of 120 – think it is unchanged. Most of the evidence suggests that begging is decreasing. Reporting on human trafficking offences linked to begging has also decreased in the last two years. Therefore, there is some reason to be confident that the measures taken still have an effect on the begging. We've already changed a number of laws. We have also changed the way the authorities work on this. The police have clarified the legal situation and thus worked more actively against illegal settlements. There are some problems with illegal driving, the use of vehicles and even camping in vehicles, which we need to be better at meeting. There are still problems with illegal settlements, which we can also be better at facing, and where we have changed the law. We can also improve when it comes to disorderly or aggressive begging, which today is covered by the law of order. But we need to find better application and working methods to clarify it. What really becomes my answer to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson's question is that we have changed the legislation in some areas, which has been important to clarify Swedish legislation. Above all, however, what we are seeing now are problems of application. You have to be better at applying the law and working with the group. The police must also be more able to build trust in the group in order to be able to expose more human trafficking crimes or cases of exploitation, because, as Jesper Skalberg Karlsson says, there are a lot of dark figures in these figures. You should also be aware of that. On Jesper Skalberg Karlsson's question whether we are planning new legislation, the answer is beyond what I have mentioned here today, no. Above all, we shall tighten up the application and thus tackle the problem. If that is not enough, we need to re-discuss. However, following the legislative changes we have made, the focus is on improving enforcement.
i-b6dee566380154aa-225	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. I have no reason to doubt the examination to which the Minister refers. It may be that many municipalities experience less begging problems. However, I have a feeling that this is mainly the case for small municipalities. In metropolitan regions such as Stockholm City and County, there are great opportunities to make money, and this is where most people live. In the weeks we have just left behind, we have seen that with the warm weather more people are coming here, and the clashes between different groups found in the street environment are increasing. Mr President, I would like to I'm going to get rid of the begging. This is the view of a majority of the Swedish people and a fairly satisfactory majority of the members and parties of the Riksdag. Many have talked for a long time about a ban on begging in Sweden, from Ardalan Shekarabi and Anna Kinberg Batra to the Swedish Democrats, i.e. around 67 percent of the Riksdag. Yet there are no such proposals in the pipeline. It does not seem that this will happen. Then it is reasonable for the parties in Parliament to get out of the sandbox and discuss what we can do instead. If a ban does not happen, how do we put a stop to the begging and the problem surrounding it? I believe that the voters have given us the task of eliminating the begging. If we cannot agree on a ban, which we have been discussing for five years without moving forward, we will probably have to change our focus and do something else that will lead to the begging being pushed back. I personally do not believe that a ban is the whole solution. For most of what these people are concerned with is already illegal. It will therefore be more about police resources and enforcement than making new laws. In addition, bans have had different outcomes in our Nordic neighbours, and it is not always perfect when you make new laws. As someone said a little joke about this, remember when we banned the drugs and all the drugs went missing? Mr President, I would like to If we want to get to grips with the begging and the nearby crime, we need to facilitate the police's work in curbing it. As we know, many problems relate to cars, as the Minister also mentions in his reply. When these vehicles, often deposed and perhaps occupying other people's land, are seized, the police need to store them while waiting to destroy them. It's both time- and resource-demanding. Add to that, and this applies perhaps mainly to Stockholm City and County, that it is a bottleneck because the police parking lots simply run out while more decaying cars are bought and fill new camps. One amendment that would be more effective is to allow the police to destroy cars immediately if they have a small value. I dare say that it is an assessment responsibility that we can conscientiously impose on the police because it is clear in almost 100% of cases which cars have little value. If you set a limit at a number of thousand crowns, the handling could be much faster. In addition, more police officers will be required in Sweden and targeted police efforts against the begging and related criminal activities. We cannot accept a fear of touch in this regard. The parties of the Parliament, including the Social Liberals, have supported projects such as the so-called Super-Reva and should therefore be able to support similar efforts with a view to curbing the crime surrounding the begging.
i-b6dee566380154aa-234	Mr President, I would like to Let us beware of the concepts of Reva and Super-Reva because they came to have a completely different meaning from the actual projects. Today, the police do three times as many workplace checks as they did three years ago, which is good for maintaining order and order in the Swedish labour market. Neither the Moderates nor the Social Democrats are in favour of a begging ban. This is probably due to the fact that it would not be a particularly effective measure. But that sounds good in the debate. First of all, of course, we must face the vulnerability of people in their home countries, the poverty they suffer and the discrimination they suffer. The reason why they find it difficult to make a living in their home country is because they are severely discriminated against and find it difficult to go to school there. That is the basis for the mobility we see. We must help to counter this if we are to have a chance to solve the problem. We must be astounded that Swedish law applies in Sweden. Illegal settlements must be demolished. They're in no way okay. We must also uphold the rules of conduct we have in public transport, for example. Let me remind you that some of these issues are owned by the municipalities themselves. How do you choose to formulate your local order charter? How do you see money collection in the municipality? How do you see camping in the municipality? These questions own the municipality itself. Once you have a local order charter, it can be maintained by the police but also by security officers employed by the municipality and appointed by the police. There is therefore considerable scope for municipalities to improve the order situation themselves. Jesper Skalberg Karlsson mentions various measures against car keepers and unregistered or unauthorised cars. I'm not closing the door for any action here. Let me first say that with measures that have been taken both during S-time and bourgeois time, we have moved the positions forward considerably. There are much more cars being collected and destroyed now than before. But that is not enough, so we will have to take further action. If it is to be a ceiling for how many cars you can be registered on, which is very legally difficult, or if it is to be possible to destroy cars in the way Jesper Skalberg Karlsson expresses it or if it should be possible to seize a car even if it is not misparked, as many policemen have suggested, I ask to return to. We need to do more against vehicle goalkeepers and illegal vehicles, and here we may actually be faced with law enforcement.
i-b6dee566380154aa-244	Mr President, I would like to The begging and the nearby crime are going away. There is a toolbox of reforms that could facilitate the management of illegal settlements and other related crime. One might think that a national begging ban is the best solution. But the drug trade, human trafficking and pickpocketing also need to be addressed. My view is that it is the latter problems that people find most offensive – rather than someone sitting outside the grocery store. The Minister of the Interior is willing and able to make policy out of the issue and introduce effective reforms – which are certainly legally difficult – there is support both among the parties in parliament and among the Swedish people. I look forward to that work, for effective reforms based on evidence I would like to see more of. Otherwise, I wish you a nice summer and welcome to the Al Medal in a little more than a week!
i-b6dee566380154aa-248	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jesper Skalberg Karlsson for the interpellation debate and a constructive and positive tone in it. Like Jesper Skalberg Karlsson, I believe that there are many more effective measures at both municipal and state level that are not about bans but about ensuring that Swedish law is complied with. I hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss them in future. I wish Jesper Skalberg Karlsson a nice summer – even if Almedalen pushes in there.
