i-f415e0d498da1e91-0	Mr President, I would like to Last week the European Council met and, as usual at the Spring Summit, the economic issues were on the agenda. In addition, we also discussed migration, security and the Western Balkans. However, the issue which received most attention was the re-election of the President-in-Office of the European Council, Donald Tusk. Mr Tusk was supported by all Member States except Poland, and as the decision does not require unanimity, he was re-elected for a new term of office of two and a half years. I mean that stability and continuity are good in this situation, and I think Donald Tusk has done a good job during a difficult and challenging time. After the presidential elections, we had to listen to the President of the European Central Bank, Mario Draghi. He informed that confidence in the Union's economy is high, that unemployment in the EU is moving towards the lowest level since shortly after the financial crisis, and that economic growth in the EU is increasingly brighter. Of course, there is still much to be done, so structural reforms and strengthening public finances must remain at the top of the list of measures. I mentioned the importance of continuing to work to increase growth, for example by bringing more women into the labour market, that we continue to develop the internal market and create better conditions for trade. Mr President, I would like to During the discussions on migration, we focused mainly on the situation along the so-called central Mediterranean route. We received a report from the Prime Minister of Malta, Joseph Muscat, on the follow-up to what we decided on in Malta a little over a month ago. Positive steps have been taken, such as training the Libyan Coast Guard and increased efforts to support border management in southern Libya. In addition, cooperation with IOM and UNHCR has been developed. IOM has now also expanded its presence and opened an office in Tripoli to better assist and monitor the situation on the ground. IOM plans to further increase its presence in Libya. We have also pointed out that it is important that all work is done in accordance with international law. High Representative Federica Mogherini stressed that humanitarian support for refugees is now important and that the return from Libya to the countries of origin must be stepped up. The European Council also reiterated the importance of reaching decisions on the common asylum system in the EU during the Maltese Presidency. This remains a priority for the Swedish Government. Mr President, I would like to We then discussed the increased tensions in the Western Balkans. There are problems both within and between countries, but it is also a major problem that countries outside the region are trying hard to influence development. I am pleased that there is broad support among Heads of State or Government to increase the involvement and presence of both the European Union and the Member States in the region. Sweden will also continue to give priority to supporting countries in the Western Balkans region. We also noted that the EU's common security and defence cooperation needs to be strengthened. We agreed that this work should complement, not duplicate, the work of NATO. It was also gratifying to hear that the United Kingdom also expressed the desire to find ways of participating in cooperation. I would also like to mention that the European Council also noted that the conditions are now in place for enhanced cooperation with regard to the European Public Prosecutor's Office (EPPO). Mr President, I would like to Following the re-election of Donald Tusk as President of the European Council, which Poland did not support, the Polish Prime Minister chose to oppose the adoption of conclusions on the other agenda items on Thursday. This was resolved by allowing the conclusions to become the President's and then had the support of 27 Member States. Of course, this is not a good situation. Is it clear now that Europe has a lot to do and that cohesion is more important than ever? The EU has important issues to address: creating jobs, managing migration, protecting the climate and strengthening security in the EU. Tackling and resolving these issues together must be at the top of our agenda. It was also my entrance when we met the next day, without the British Prime Minister Theresa May, to talk about how we take the work forward in the discussions on the future of Europe. The closest point is the celebration in Rome in just over a week's time, where we will highlight what the EU has contributed so far since its formation, the challenges it is now facing and the areas that need to be the focus in the future. As you know, the Commission has presented a so-called White Paper on future work. The discussion that followed it, that we have or are in danger of having a Europe at different speeds, is something that several countries, not least our eastern friends, have expressed their concern about. Other countries, including Sweden, do not see this as equally dramatic, for the reason that we already have a Europe where parts of cooperation do not cover all countries. This is a discussion that will certainly continue in the future; we from Sweden will be active. At the same time, it is now important that the European Union is not fully occupied and sucked up by discussions about form when we have such a great challenge in the main before us. At the meeting, we mentioned several aspects that are important in the future: growth, security, climate and migration. The issue of gender equality also needs to be raised more clearly in our work – it is not least an important growth issue. We also talked about the social dimension of Europe, and I was clear that, for our part, it is not about transferring national competences to the European Union, but about helping each one of us to raise these aspects in its own way. However, there is considerable interest in this, from different parts of the EU and from different sides of party boundaries. Several welcomed coming to the Gothenburg Summit this autumn and giving their views on how social policy should be shaped. This, Mr President, was the European Council's re-report.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-18	Mr President, I would like to Anyone who listened or looked at the meeting of the EU Board last week before this summit could note that the Prime Minister then placed the great emphasis in his speech precisely on the issue of the social dimension and social Europe. Now he only mentioned it in passing. The explanation for this is probably that the Prime Minister went on a major setback in the EU Council last week, when the united opposition clearly indicated a concern about the developments that we can see in the European Union. There is a desire on the part of many actors to move more power from the nation states to Brussels in terms of labour market policy. In recent months, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has examined an EU White Paper on the social pillar, which regulates labour market policy in detail and which the Prime Minister's Minister for Labour Ylva Johansson is behind. I am pleased that the Prime Minister said what he was asked by the EU Board to say: to point out that Sweden feels this concern and does not want more decision-making rights to be moved to the EU, especially in terms of labour market policy – we want to protect the Swedish model. Nevertheless, I would like a comment from the Prime Minister. After all, the Prime Minister has pretended that the work on the social pillar is not going on and that there is no White Paper on detailed regulation of labour market policies. He is not pretending here in Parliament that his Minister for Labour is pushing this strongly. I would like a comment from the Prime Minister on how he views these issues in the future.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-22	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Schulte says that there would have been a great debate on this at the European Council, that it would have been a great defeat, that we are running detailed regulation and so on. I understand that there may be internal political reasons why he expresses himself that way, but I would argue that it is superior. I hope we agree that we should pursue a social dimension in Europe. People must feel that this is not only a market for goods, services and capital, but also a market that meets people's needs for social protection. We agree on this. We also agree that this does not mean shifting decision-making competence. I explained to the European Council, also to Fredrik Schulte, that we have raised the issue of a social pillar – which is not the same as a social protocol – and put forward precisely that view. That is what the whole argument is based on. I said that last week, and I'm saying it again. I think it would be good if we agreed. It is a strength for Sweden, and it will be a strength for Europe when the citizens of Europe hear that there is now a responsibility also for the social dimension.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-26	Mr President, I would like to No one would be happier than me if we agreed on these issues. The problem is that it is a bit difficult to find out where the government really stands on these issues. We are told by the Prime Minister that this social dimension does not really mean much and that there is only a little exchange of ideas between the countries. However, when you ask the Minister for Labour Ylva Johansson, you are told that these are detailed proposals that in an interventional way transfer the decision-making rights over labour market policy from Sweden to the EU. On the one hand, there is the Prime Minister, who says one thing; on the other hand, there is the Minister for Employment, who says something quite different. I hope it is the Prime Minister's words that apply. I hope that the Swedish Government will stand by the line taken by the Prime Minister here and that no more decision-making rights will be transferred to the EU. But then the Prime Minister must take Ylva Johansson in the ear and tell her to stop moving power to Brussels.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-28	Mr President, I would like to I believe that Fredrik Schulte must first learn to distinguish between the social dimension, social work and the social pillar. When I talk about social pillars, which I raised a little over a year ago with the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude-Claude Juncker, it means that we should review access to the labour market as well as labour market conditions and other social aspects based on the decision-making powers of the Member States. We are following these issues, because it is extremely important to have a social dimension. This is what I've been talking about, and I'm gonna keep talking about it. There we have the same view on the matter. It is more important to note that we share the same view on the matter than to seek a quarrel for the sake of the argument?
i-f415e0d498da1e91-30	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank the European Council for its report. The EU does not lack challenges. It is about getting the migration decision in place, so that there is a distribution in Europe, just as it is important that all municipalities in Sweden assume their responsibilities. It is a question of continuing the work on climate change, and it is becoming increasingly important to promote security in different ways. It is also, as the Prime Minister says, about bringing forward social issues and talking about people's security. It is not about transferring skills to the European level, but it is about having that perspective, just like the gender perspective, and that it is included in the discussions that we are conducting. The government has been very successful in lifting labour market policy back from the European Union with the bill on lex Laval that is now in Parliament. They say that the Court should not have such an impact on Swedish labour market policy. I hope for a great deal of support when we decide on that bill in this House. I think it is important, as the Prime Minister finally said, not to talk so much about form but rather to go into the various issues. There is, of course, a risk that the Brexit issue and the issues of the future of Europe will take over. Nor do I believe that one should be particularly afraid of a Europe that is at different speeds. We already have Schengen cooperation, monetary cooperation and the financial pact, where different countries participate in different ways. I believe that the most important thing now is to agree on the major, important issues of climate, security and migration.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-35	Mr President, I would like to I share that view. That is how we have prioritised the holding up of these important issues. For example, the issue of migration must be resolved, and we must continue to push the climate issue. Here we have a clear added value in European cooperation. We can also clearly show the citizens of the Member States that there is a very great value in having cooperation. That is exactly how we prioritise it. That is also why I am expressing some concern. The discussion on the White Paper presented by the Commission is perfectly legitimate, and we shall take it, but we must not be fully occupied by questions of form and process. Then we will be standing for two more years while citizens expect us to actually solve problems that exist in their everyday lives. I therefore welcome the fact that the Commission will also present five thematic reports on substance, for example on the social dimension: how do we show the Member States and citizens of the European Union that in our cooperation we are clear also on the social dimension? I look forward to that discussion. I believe that the thematic reports may balance this, so that we do not just end up in a form report. Otherwise, I share the view that, if we now get a hearing for the bill, we will end the question of lex Laval, where the European Court of Justice suddenly had to rule Swedish labour market policy and the Swedish model, where the party model is so important. Unfortunately, the previous government reinforced this with the current legislation and it now needs to be changed. Then we will fully return to the Swedish model. Then the parties can fully pursue their demands according to the Swedish model, and I think that is excellent.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-39	Mr President, I would like to I would like to continue to talk about what the Prime Minister raised last, the Swedish model. It's very important. The Swedish labour market model is in some way the core of the Swedish model. Taking back the power that the European Court of Justice took from us – as the bourgeois government acknowledged – is an important step. It is also good that many from industry are now welcoming this proposal. The construction industry has said so, and individual construction companies have also said so. It's just a matter of order. But order and order must also be in migration policy. We have talked here many times about moving from decision to action. From what I understand, the Maltese Presidency has really taken this seriously. Could the Prime Minister possibly elaborate on this?
i-f415e0d498da1e91-41	Mr President, I would like to On the issue of migration, the Maltese Presidency is doing a very good job. We must find compromises; it is as simple as that. The Commission has made a proposal. That is what is being discussed. But we must all be prepared to make compromises. That is why the Presidency is now working on a dialogue with all Member States on what such a compromise might look like. We must be prepared to compromise if we are to get anywhere. That's how it usually works in all contexts, even within a family. On the other hand, we have said that it must be based on the fact that everyone actually takes responsibility for receiving refugees. One cannot refuse to deal with that part and say that others should take care of it. That's the red line for us. We continue in this way and have said that we remain ready to contribute to compromises.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-44	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the statement of the last EU summit. One of the areas discussed at the summit is the common defence and security policy in the EU. The Swedish Democrats believe that Sweden should not be part of the common defence and security policy. Instead, we see this area as a matter for the individual Member States to decide and have at their disposal. Of course, both bilateral and multilateral cooperation should be possible between Member States and non-Member States. But when it comes to protecting Sweden's security and defence policy interests, it is of the utmost importance that Sweden can design its own line. Having said that, it is important that the EU does not develop into a defence union. And now that military service is finally reintroduced in Sweden, it is even more important that it is made clear that our country is militaryly non-aligned. Swedish conscripts should not have to die for the EU or other foreign interests. It is important here to be clear to those who are already in a position of duty and those who will be in the future. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore how he views EU-wide defence staffs and other bodies that are now being set up and that may rapidly develop into a common European defence. Will Sweden stand outside of such cooperation on a permanent basis, or will Sweden be sneaked into an EU defence back door, just as the Swedish people and Sweden have become embroiled in a series of other EU collaborations through the back door, as we have seen through history?
i-f415e0d498da1e91-47	Mr President, I would like to I don't want anything sneaked up here. One of the government's most important tasks is to ensure that the country's population has the best possible protection. We stand up for the freedom of alliance and will do so. We think it is important that we have bilateral cooperation with a number of countries, but also cooperation with NATO and cooperation with the EU, while standing up for our freedom of alliance, what we choose ourselves. The whole cooperation that is now being developed within the framework of the European Union is based on this very thing. It is a modular system, where some countries may cooperate more on cyber and cyber issues and other countries in other areas. It's your choice. But the whole will be a better protection for the citizens of the Member States, and that is the most important thing we can do: to protect the citizens. In our view, this cooperation is very good. It does not in any way refer to a defence union. When it comes to having joint staffs to deal with, for example, the conflict-solving efforts that we might want to do with the EU, it is natural for someone to coordinate this. It is also natural for us to look at how we can coordinate our internal protection in the EU. But it does not in any way mean a new defence union or the release of the freedom of alliance. This is a very good cooperation. It gives us the opportunity, like others, to contribute to greater common security – still on the basis of national decisions.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-50	Mr President, I would like to I note that in the Prime Minister's answer to my questions there is no guarantee that we will not be sneaked into the back door of precisely an EU defence, to which this may develop in the future. The President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude-Claude Juncker, wants this kind of European defence. We have very large Member States, such as France and Germany, which are pressing very hard to get this EU-wide defence. Nor do I see that Sweden can contribute much today. We don't have much defence skills. We also see that the rest of Europe is decommissioned. Even those words from the Prime Minister echo hollowly. We are now seeing the establishment of the European Defence Headquarters. We see that, like many other times, it starts with this. But that's hardly the end of it. Is there any guarantee whatsoever that we will not be sneaking into this in the longer term?
i-f415e0d498da1e91-53	Mr President, I would like to I can say it one more time. I don't want anything sneaking up on me. There will be no such defence union, for the simple reason that nobody wants it. Many of the Member States that are members of NATO are very careful to point out that this is not something that should compete with NATO or duplicate NATO, but should complement NATO. It is quite clear that the Member States can contribute what they want and believe they can contribute. It's wrong that Sweden can't contribute anything – that's quite the wrong idea. There's no other country either. For example, we have been ready for a long time to contribute with international conflict resolution efforts. It is very important for us in Europe too that we can help to create peace and order in our neighbourhood. Of course, sooner or later it will also affect Europe if it is not calm and quiet, so we will contribute to that. It increases the security of our citizens, and that is the most important task of this government.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-55	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for the report. Relations with Turkey are becoming increasingly central to the European Union. Turkey is now our border guard who prevents refugees from coming here to seek asylum. It gives the country a position of power that the country's leadership exploits to the full, both by oppressing its own opposition and by raising its tone against the various Member States of the EU. We are seeing an ongoing crisis between the EU and Turkey. In Turkey, it is a question of imprisoning democratic representatives of various parties. You silence free media. It is widespread violence, particularly in the Kurdish part of the country. Faced with this, the EU is worryingly silent. In the face of the referendum to be held in Turkey, the Turkish Government is showing a record of hypocrisy. Views are made on how different EU countries are doing with their laws and freedom of assembly, while at the same time throwing thousands of representatives of the 'no' side of the referendum in prison on a totally arbitrary basis. It is difficult to imagine something more extraordinary hypocrisy. I was at a recent trial in Istanbul myself. A party leader, Selahattin Demirtaş, is threatened by 142 years in prison for giving speeches, such as this, in the Turkish Parliament. I think it is a time when it is incredibly important to be clear and not allow ourselves to be pushed by the Turkish Government but to stand up for democratic values and for people's right to express their political views. It is time to see this arrogance from the Turkish Government. I think that the government here and now has a golden opportunity to do so and to demand that political prisoners be released, that the media be allowed to operate freely and that the referendum in Turkey should in fact respect some sort of reasonable democratic rule of law. Here you go, Stefan Löfven!
i-f415e0d498da1e91-60	Mr President, I would like to There must be no doubt that Sweden stands up for freedom of expression. We say very clearly that what is now happening in Turkey is very problematic – it is a restriction on freedom of expression, imprisonment, dismissal and so on. These developments are extremely worrying. We are expressing this above all within the framework of EU cooperation, because it is important that we have a common voice on these issues. What we are doing in the area of refugees in Turkey is helping the people who are suffering something terrible and who have been forced to flee. We do not support Turkey with these efforts. We support people who have – excuse the expression – hell. It's starvation. They barely have a roof over their heads. It's about schooling for kids. We must ensure that these shortcomings are rectified for these people. That is the direction we are taking in relation to Turkey. People need help. We shall do this while being very clear that we stand up for human rights and freedoms. They must never be exchanged for each other. You have to be able to take both. That's what we're gonna do and do.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-63	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. We have different views on the effect of this refugee agreement. I believe that the central point now is to speak out against the provocations and arrogance of the Turkish Government. Does the Prime Minister share the view that political prisoners in Turkey must be released immediately, including those parliamentarians who are on trial? Does the Prime Minister share the view that the Turkish State must also allow the 'no' side to conduct its election meetings and activities in democratic order without lynch mobs or provocations from the police?
i-f415e0d498da1e91-64	Mr President, I would like to Turkey, like all other countries, must live up to human rights, to freedom and rights, to freedom of expression and whatever it may be. We make no distinction between Member States – that one country does not have to live up to it and that another country should live up to it. This applies equally to everyone. These are fundamental principles. We must and should be extremely clear that this is what we should live by. Then, of course, you get to think what you want, but my aim and our aim with this agreement is to help people on the ground who are miserable and difficult. For example, children must be given the opportunity to attend school. We do this through help to projects that ensure that children are allowed to go to school.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-66	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report of the last EU summit! It is at an interesting time in international politics that EU leaders are now meeting. My question concerns the way in which the global dimension, that is, the EU's responsibility, the opportunities and the need to be a global player, was reflected at the summit. Today, one of the Prime Minister's colleagues in the EU meets with the President of the United States, and we know that relations between the EU and other major international players have varied. Of course, it is no better for the EU to send out signals internationally that it is having a very difficult time working together internally, including the fact that one of the EU's leaders was not being re-elected because of internal conflicts in his own country. These things cause complications. I would like to say that the global dimension must not be forgotten. As the Prime Minister points out, the forms must not be in focus when the EU is discussing its future agenda, but rather the challenges facing the EU should be the focus. As the Prime Minister mentioned, many of these challenges are, to say the least, global. The climate, migration and security issues are global issues, and it is most appropriate that we also have a global dimension in this work, not least when it comes to migration and refugee issues. The route from Africa is not only about people fleeing torture, terror and war, but also about economic refugees and a labour market in Europe that depends on exchanges with other countries. My question, then, is simply how the global dimension stood at this summit.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-71	Mr President, I would like to Is there anything positive that this misery has brought, and I am thinking now of the migration situation, it is that more countries are talking about the fact that we actually have to do more in those countries where hunger, hunger, poverty, lack of education and so on. The meeting we had a year and a half ago with African countries in Malta, although not everyone was there, was just that kind of thing: Europe needs to do more to ensure that people who are not refugees simply have more security and a better social life in their home countries and not be forced to make the difficult and directly deadly escape to seek a better life. As far as this is concerned, we believe that we can and should do more. In the conclusions, I would like to refer to paragraph 8, which reads: and In the present international environment, Europe must do more to protect its citizens and contribute to peace and stability in its neighbourhood and beyond. The European Union has a very important role to play here. On trade issues, we are now hearing, not least in the light of the American administration's attitude to trade as we have heard so far, many around the world looking at the EU and saying: what can we do more precisely in the area of trade to strengthen free trade and free and fair trade opportunities? There, many people are probably counting on the EU to play a role, and that is why we want to move forward, as expressed in the conclusions, from the CETA agreement and try to ensure that it is implemented. It is also a question of concluding negotiations with Japan as quickly as possible so that the EU is involved in setting a standard that is good also in the area of free trade.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-75	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I share the Prime Minister's view on social issues that what is about delivering to citizens in the form of a functioning labour market is an important topic of discussion between the European states, even if it is different in different countries. We also have different regulations for this. However, one is common to the European labour market, and that is that it is completely dependent on immigrant workers in different sectors. We have an innovative business community that is completely dependent on an international exchange, and I hope that the Prime Minister and Sweden can share views on this interdependence also in the labour market, in a global world.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-77	Mr President, I would like to We shall have a policy of migration that is sustainable. For example, the situation that we had in autumn 2015 was not sustainable, and we have now changed it and made sure that we actually have a sustainable situation. In such a discussion, however, there is no doubt that for Sweden as a small and highly trade-dependent country it is a strength to have people who come from different parts of the world in our labour market, some of whom have been refugees here and then moved back to countries around the world. These people and their experience and knowledge are a great asset to us, but we must, of course, at the same time ensure that we have a long-term migration policy that is sustainable.
i-EVmPpHyo8zurmE2yAT4saw	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. In the run-up to the European Council, the Prime Minister of the EU Board mentioned that Sweden has asked the Commission a question as to whether they believe that Hungary's action to lock asylum seekers in principle is in line with EU law and/or other international law. My question to the Prime Minister is whether the Commission has returned with an answer or any comment on this question to Sweden and the Prime Minister, but also whether the Prime Minister raised this action at the European Council in which the Prime Minister was present. I think it is important that we constantly emphasise the right to seek asylum and that we should have an individual examination and that reception should take place in a respectful manner for the dignity of the individual and with humanity. So on to defence and security cooperation. In the EU Board, the Prime Minister was clear that the goal of the developed defence and security cooperation would not be to create a defence union but that enhanced defence cooperation should be based on an intergovernmental basis. We all agreed on this, but I do not think that the reservations we made are reflected in the Presidency conclusions that come from the European Council. That suggests, as I understand it, a great deal of room for the Commission to develop defence and security cooperation without the reservations that we have agreed on from the Swedish side.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-84	Mr President, I would like to As far as Hungary is concerned, the specific issue was not raised. We have put the question to the Commission and we await the answer. As far as defence and security policy is concerned, everyone agrees on this. There is no one who has any hunger for creating a new defence union. It will do itself, because this whole system of cooperation is a modular cooperation where you simply have to put in and contribute what you want. All in all, we are strengthening the security and security of our citizens, but we are doing so on the basis of what we want and can contribute. That is the whole basis of cooperation. It's a relevant question, but don't enlarge it, because there's no such desire in anyone.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-87	Mr President, I would like to On the question of Hungary, I think it is important for the Prime Minister to call for an answer in view of the fact that the legislation that is voted through in Hungary will soon come into force, and it is important that it be called into question before it enters into force. As far as defence cooperation is concerned, I think, if I may think something in this context, that the Presidency conclusions should make it more clear what the European Union should be building cooperation on, namely the intergovernmental rather than any superstructure and common defence and security policy. I have a final question: does the Prime Minister have any belief that the Polish, should we call it the veto or the no to the President-in-Office of the Council has any repercussions so that the decisions to be taken by an absolute majority are blocked in the future?
i-f415e0d498da1e91-90	Mr President, I would like to As far as defence and security cooperation are concerned, the basic rule is that no one can be forced into anything against their will. The same sentence I referred to earlier reads as follows: In the present international environment, Europe must do more to protect its citizens and contribute to peace and stability in its neighbouring and beyond, including by issuing sufficient additional resources, while taking into account national circles and legal communications. That is the conclusions. Then there are the basic provisions. It is quite clear, in my opinion. Then there was the question of the Polish veto. This, of course, is not good. I understood on Friday that the Polish Prime Minister was back in office, discussed and participated in a pragmatic way. I assume that this was a one-off event during that day. Of course, I cannot guarantee this, but I very much hope that this was the case. We need that cooperation.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-92	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Prime Minister for his report. Of course, it is not good that it was not Council conclusions but just Presidency conclusions. I hope that it was a one-time opportunity, that this is not repeated and that one can stay together within the EU and among Heads of State or Government on the future of the European Union – if we are to have a common future within the European Union. I also note that it is good that the Prime Minister has addressed the role of women in the labour market in terms of growth. But that is lacking in the conclusions. I just wonder if there was anyone, more than Sweden, who pushed the issue of women's entrepreneurship as a success factor. We know that GDP can increase by 12% if women work to the same extent as men. That would be a huge asset. In the conclusions, a word has disappeared. In the past, there was a "social summit" for fair jobs and growth. Now there is just a summit for fair jobs and growth. It is perhaps the case that the Prime Minister did not want to speak in social terms because we made some criticisms about detailed governance, which we do not want the European Union to do. I would like to hear a comment on this. With regard to migration, I wonder whether the Prime Minister pushed the issue of more legal ways into the EU. This issue has now disappeared from the EU document. This issue was previously recurring in the area of migration. It is a pity because it will probably be difficult to agree on a system other than a quota system in which several countries commit themselves to receiving people in need of protection and fleeing to Europe. Is it possible to reach a consensus on EU asylum policy, according to the Prime Minister?
i-f415e0d498da1e91-98	Mr President, I would like to On the last question, I can say that it will be complicated. There's no point in hiding it. It will be very difficult. We must all – I mean everyone – try to make a real effort to reach a compromise that everyone can live with. The government's line is that everyone must take responsibility for receiving refugees. In the conclusion I have, Désirée Pethrus, it says I will begin with the second sentence: The European Council looks forward to the holding of the Social Summit for Fair Jobs and Growth in Gothenburg on 17 November 2017. ..................................................... In the version I have it says, Social Summit. I'm just looking at my co-worker to get a confirmation. Yes, that's the point that's correct. Legal paths were not discussed specifically, but I can assure Mrs Pethrus that we have talked about this issue so many times in these contexts. This applies, for example, to how we are going to extend cooperation with the UNHCR, so that more people can escape the deadly journeys across the Mediterranean and get into Europe safely. That is one of these questions, and there may be more. We have been raising this issue all along. That position is still valid. Then there was the question of women's participation in the labour market. This is one thing that we would like to see, not least in future work, and as Mrs Pethrus points out here, that is to say that it would be 12% higher bnp. That is a lot of money at European level. There would be so much more welfare if women had the same opportunities for participation in the labour market. It is also such an issue that lies, i.e. the gender perspective, when we look forward. Let's see what happens in the Rome Declaration.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-102	Mr President, I would like to Unlike the Prime Minister, I obviously have a Swedish version of the conclusions. It only says that there is a summit for fair jobs and growth. Then it is the translator who has done something wrong. We'll figure that out eventually. With regard to legal migration, the various ministers and the Prime Minister have had slightly different views. That is yes to more quota refugees but no to humanitarian visas and no to labour visas. It's a bit of a shame. This is an issue that we Christian Democrats have been pushing and against which the Social Democrats have opposed. Security and defence are matters of intergovernmental cooperation. What drives Sweden, and what drives the Prime Minister? Is it the development of capabilities or the crisis management structure? Is that border management? What is most important for Sweden, and what has the Prime Minister particularly raised during that part of the meeting?
i-f415e0d498da1e91-105	Mr President, I would like to We have discussed the issue of more legal ways in several times. There are several ways of doing this, and let us continue to discuss the issue within the framework of the common migration policy. We have stressed the need for more safe ways in so that people do not have to risk their lives on the Mediterranean. The issues of security and defence are of a slightly different magnitude. One is, of course, our ability to defend. How do we strengthen the combined national conditions and our national decision-making? Then it's about how we can strengthen our management of conflicts, conflict prevention and conflict escalation in our surrounding world. That's a completely different thing. We are also committed to the issue of external borders. It's important. If there is to be a common migration policy, there must be a common external border that works. That is the only way to gain confidence in the common migration policy. There are several different dimensions. We have not said that exactly this is number one, but there are several dimensions to the issue of security.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-107	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by agreeing with what Mr Sjöstedt has said about the situation in Turkey at the moment. We know that Mr Erdo中an has eroded Turkish democracy and destroyed freedom for a long period of time. It is important that Europe's decent governments are clear that political prisoners must be released. The situation of political prisoners is not only in Turkey. At the same time as the European Council was in progress, the Belarusian, belarusian dictatorship struck against the political opposition in the country. Several raids took place on Friday. People were beaten and thrown into prison. Here, too, I expect a sharp reaction from the Swedish Government and the rest of the European Union. It is important to raise the issue of sanctions. We Liberals were, as you know, against lifting sanctions against Belarus the other year, but now we really have the proof of how the dictatorship's grip is tightening in the country. I now come to my main question. As the Prime Minister mentioned, we will pay attention to the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome in the European Union. There is now a debate on the future of the Union. Two parties in this House want Sweden to leave the European Union. We Liberals are, as you know, of a different opinion. We would like a little more clear information from the government as to where one is prepared to strengthen EU cooperation. We Liberals think that this is extremely important not least in the area of the rule of law. Organised crime sees no national boundaries. Violence-promoting extremism, terrorism, sees no national borders. The traffickers who sell the bodies of girls and women, the sex slavery in Europe, see no borders. Unfortunately, when it comes to police cooperation, prosecution cooperation and so on, the government is not in the front line to cooperate more at European level. I wonder why.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-112	Mr President, I would like to It is not correctly stated that we do not want to cooperate. That's what we want to do. On the other hand, we have been reluctant, or directly negative, to set up a new organisation, the so-called Eppo. There is already cooperation in this area. We may need to develop that. Does it mean, in that case, to transfer more decision-making competence to the EU compared to Sweden? No, we don't. We believe that our prosecutors and our judicial system should continue to be ours, but in better cooperation. But it is not a question of leaving it to an EU institution to take over part of this – the EU economy and other issues. We believe that we should do as we do today, but with increased cooperation. As far as priorities are concerned, we have always talked about the need to resolve the issue of migration in the short term. It is extremely important to us, in substance, but also because if we fail to do so, Europe will be weakened. A common migration policy must be achieved. That is why we have put it so high on the agenda. We have security issues, that is, our ability to protect our citizens against terrorism, but also to increase our military capabilities. That is, of course, important. We need to move forward with the issues of the internal market so that we create more jobs, more growth and higher productivity because that is what creates prosperity. Until then, there is a clear social dimension, because people need more certainty that the future is safe even if it involves change. It will, but there must be social security. Without compromising national decision-making competence, we believe that we have work to do here together: to keep those issues on the agenda and develop a social dimension. I believe that this is crucial for people's confidence in the European Union.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-118	Mr President, I would like to I am still looking for answers from the Prime Minister on the situation in Belarus. The utterly disgusting attacks that took place on Friday against the political opposition and other activists for democracy and freedom should have been followed by sharper condemnations from the EU as a Union, but of course also from Sweden and other EU countries. I wonder whether the government will go out and strongly condemn what has happened. I also wonder whether the government intends to raise the issue of sanctions against the country. It is, of course, a country that has been unjustly sanctioned while the dictatorship is compact and the repression of those who want to go towards democracy as well. Another major point at the European Council was, of course, to strengthen trade relations with China. Free trade is very important globally; we Liberals definitely support it. I wonder, however, what is the human rights dimension in this.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-122	Mr President, I would like to Belarus was not specifically discussed at the European Council. Otherwise, it is for the Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs that deals with this type of question. We stand up, as I said earlier, as regards the duty of all countries to respect human rights, freedom of expression and so on. It applies equally to all countries. Exactly how we handle the respective countries is the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As far as trade with China is concerned, it is clear that China is a major and important player. Not least in view of what the new US administration has expressed, it is important that we find players around. But there too we believe that there are standards to be met. That is why we also want to develop the discussion within the framework of the WTO so that we get global standards. For me, it is extremely important that we live up to human rights in this perspective too.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-125	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. However, I would have liked the Prime Minister's introduction to have been somewhat longer and that he had more fully explained the content of the meeting. After all, it was a two-day summit with the other Heads of State or Government in Europe. I think there should be enough interesting information to share with Parliament to fill ten minutes. Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister may think I'm a bit of a mess, but I still have to dwell on the social dimension. For I am a little puzzled when, on the one hand, the Prime Minister constantly emphasises the social dimension and argues for a strengthened social dimension and ambition at European level but, on the other hand, constantly tries to indicate that this is not about supranationality or about shifting power and influence to Europe. I find it a little difficult to put together the Prime Minister's reasoning, so I would like the Prime Minister to give concrete details of how the increased social ambition should be realised – without transferring power to the EU, without shifting power, without losing influence over what we Moderates think should of course be national competence, that is, labour market policy and social policy. In concrete terms, Prime Minister: how should the social ambition of the EU be expressed?
i-f415e0d498da1e91-129	Mr President, I would like to I guess I'll have to regret the too short introduction-- I'll have to take advantage of my ten minutes next time. It was not intentional, but we believe that we were able to report on the points discussed in this way. Let's take some time to the social dimension. Today we have something called the European semester, where we are going through what the economy looks like in the European Union as a whole and in the Member States. There are a number of factors there that I think it is important that we follow and keep track of. The Member States receive their recommendations on this basis. In this area, it has been pointed out to Sweden that our housing market and, not least, household debt is a challenge for us. That is what we have said – yes, it is a challenge, and we have to deal with it. This also applies to matching and training, including in the labour market, in order to get even better matching. Yes, we mean we're right. But it is we who decide how to do it. The same can be done with regard to the social dimension. We have a number of perspectives that are important here. One perspective is access to the labour market. We need to get into full employment. Unemployment has fallen but is still far too high, not least among young people. The question then is whether all Member States can keep an eye on this point. We want to improve this. But Sweden is allowed to do so according to its conditions, Denmark based on its own and Italy based on its own. On the other hand, we may have experiences that we can learn from each other: there it has worked well. If we want to use that method, we will. In the same way, it is with working life conditions. What do they look like? We must have security in the labour market so that it is safe, good working environment and fair conditions. But it must also be dealt with within the framework of the various countries' conditions. Then there is a social dimension in the broader sense – access to health care, access to education. It should also be managed within the framework of the country's decision-making rights, but we have the issues on the agenda and help to develop them.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-136	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for that somewhat reassuring message! Nevertheless, I was a little concerned when, in a previous speech, the Prime Minister said that the Gothenburg Summit, which he initiated, will discuss how social policy should be shaped. I think that is rather something for the national Parliament to discuss. But enough about that, Mr President. I would also like to ask the Prime Minister about the worrying developments that we have with a more divided Europe. Poland obstinated at the last European Summit, as the Prime Minister explained, and also at the Environment Council meeting the previous week, which opposed the important agreement on the EU ETS. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister how Sweden and the Swedish Government are acting to try to bridge the gaps and divisions that exist. A strong Europe and a strong Europe are needed, and that requires unity. How does Sweden act there?
i-f415e0d498da1e91-141	Mr President, I would like to We act in different ways. On the one hand, we are seeking bilateral contact, including with those countries where it may look harsh at the moment. Hungary is an example – our Minister of Justice and Migration has visited Hungary. I myself had a bilateral meeting on Thursday with the Prime Minister of Poland. Although we disagree on a number of issues, we should keep that dialogue open. I have also been invited to go to Poland, and I intend to do so. I think it's important to keep the dialogue going and see where you can find common denominators – and show respect for each other despite different opinions. At the same time, we are clear about what we stand up for in terms of human rights and fundamental principles, European law and international law. At the same time, we must stand up for that. But I am of the fundamental view that it is better to have a dialogue even when you think differently than you do not have one, and we will continue to do so.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-150	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me how I justify the reduction of the ceiling in the RUT deduction. She has also asked me if I and the government will raise the roof again and if so, when. As I have explained in several interpellation debates, including with Lotta Finstorp, the reasons behind the changes to the RUT deduction that came into force on 1 January 2016 are that the deduction should be directed more towards ordinary households. It is important for the legitimacy of the tax system that fiscal policy is perceived as fair. The changes are not expected to make any difference for the vast majority of those who are currently making RUT deductions. This also applies after additional services have been introduced on 1 August 2016 and 1 January 2017, as very few users of the RUT deduction make deductions for amounts as high as over SEK 25 000. Against this background, any increase in the ceiling of the RUT deduction is not relevant.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-154	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The answer shows that we have intervened on this issue in the past. Last time was January 2016. It is a good reform that deserves to be highlighted often. It also has a great development potential for more jobs. The government, too, should feel that it is good that this issue should be raised. The reply states that the deduction that entered into force on 1 January 2016 will be directed more towards ordinary households. When I look at figures from the country, I see that RUT services have increased significantly over the years, especially outside the metropolitan areas. The households mentioned by the Minister are, for example, the 1,006 RUT buyers in Vingåker, who probably see themselves as very ordinary households. To invest in more RUT jobs is to invest in those who are far from the labour market but also to strengthen, among other things, freedom of choice in the welfare sector. Sweden needs more jobs, also for those with short unfinished education. Lower job thresholds are important, and four out of five new jobs are created by SMEs, just like RUTs. The RUT works in integrating newcomers and, as I said, those who are far from the labour market. It generates the necessary tax revenue that we can use for more welfare services. Entrepreneurs and Offerta presented a report in 2014, showing among other things that 46 per cent of RUT employees came directly from unemployment. One in five companies employs more than 18 nationalities. These are fantastic figures, and therefore RUT is a good reform that we could further develop. That is why I think we should raise the ceiling. In total, the RUT reform is estimated to have created around 20,000 jobs. Now that we have extended the agreement so that there are more services, it is interesting to see how many new jobs this is embarrassing after 2017. Another important thing about the RUT reform is that undeclared work has fallen sharply in the industry. There are several aims to have the RUT reform and develop these services further. The government's goal is to have Europe's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. If it is to be reached, one must think on, let go of all sacred cows and think new. Then the RUT industry is definitely an industry that can help to get closer to this goal. RUT has given many female entrepreneurs. I recently saw statistics showing that the number of female entrepreneurs is growing, but with the ceiling that has now been set for RUT, we do not see the sharp increase that existed in the past. We Moderates have been working for several years to expand various types of services, and it is gratifying that there were now more from August 2016. What is remarkable is that, for example, LO's President says that it is a bad idea with RUT deductions and that it has been seen that every job on RUT deductions has cost a lot of money that could instead be used for those who find it difficult to get a job. I would like the Minister to develop this further, because I do not quite understand – it has given a great many jobs. Does the Minister of Finance agree with what the Chairman of LO says?
i-f415e0d498da1e91-165	Mr President, I would like to I fully share Lotta Finstorp's view that there are many advantages to the RUT system introduced by the bourgeois government. That is why we are not abolishing the RUT, but we are keeping it with the same high subsidy rate that the previous government introduced. Just as Lotta Finstorp says, this is a sector that has created jobs that can be an entry-level job for many people and which has also created a lot of new entrepreneurs. Therefore, the government has extended the RUT deduction so that it is now possible to make RUT deductions for more services than before. We see that during our government, RUT deductions have increased between 2015 and 2016, both in payouts and number of buyers as well as in number of performers. There are many points here. The point of the change we made was that RUT would be directed more towards ordinary households, and we also see that more ordinary households use it. The t that Lotta Finstorp is now concerned about is the percentage of RUT buyers who hit the ceiling. Then you should know that it is a group of people who have an income of about 1 million. Not many people have that kind of income. If you have a million-dollar income, you can probably still buy RUT services in the future. Lotta Finstorp says it was an important way to get rid of undeclared work. Here I want to raise the finger of warning. It is clear that undeclared work has decreased in this sector, but it is also because the subsidy rate is so low that the industry is in practice untaxed. If this is the way – by completely abolishing the tax – the Moderates want to fight tax evasion and undeclared work, there will be little money left for the welfare sectors. The government is continuing to work on completely different proposals to reduce tax evasion and undeclared work.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-170	Mr President, I would like to The ceiling level is not just a limit for the buyer. It's a limit for the one who's going to start a business and see if it can go around. It is a limit for the entrepreneur who may be at risk of leaving a permanent job, who is passionate about his job in home care and who dreams of becoming an entrepreneur of his own. This limit means that you may not dare to start and above all not hire more people. I find it very unfortunate. It is a shame to be ludicrous in this debate. This is one way to solve it. In order for you to achieve your goal of having Europe's lowest unemployment by 2020, according to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, which has calculated this, 460,000 new jobs would be lost. Then this is part of it. It is in the service sector that jobs will grow, and then it is important to open up and try to find good solutions. What is important for those who are going to pursue a business-friendly policy, and also for those who are going to start a business, is that it is long-term rules of play. Now that the government is under threat of mileage tax, airline tax and new 3:12 rules, there are many explicit obstacles that are not yet malleable and that seem to hinder anyone who wants to hire more in their small RUT company. Instead, you wait. I will monitor this issue, because I am convinced that we will see this in the statistics. The unemployment rate among women born outside Sweden is now 30%. I heard this Friday. It is an unacceptable situation for every unemployed woman, but also from a socio-economic point of view. With every measure by the government that inhibits job growth, these women end up even further away from the labour market. Nine years – as long as it takes half of all new arrivals in Sweden to get a job, according to new figures from SCB. Shortening this time for newcomers and for people with low qualifications when it comes to getting jobs is one of Sweden's biggest challenges. Of course, all parties share the government's view on this. In addition, the Minister for Labour's goal is that it will take two years for newcomers to get a job. Then there must also be tools for this. That is a little bit of what my question is about. What tools are there in the toolbox that can shorten the time when new arrivals are unemployed, from nine years to two years? There must be huge reforms to be made. Is it realistic at all when it is nine years today and the target is two years? What is the government doing to achieve this goal? Is the government's target for Sweden to have Europe's lowest unemployment rate by 2020 fixed? Why, for example, does the government propose anti-growth taxes? How is this objective to be achieved? RUT is part of this.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-176	Mr President, I would like to The government has high ambitions to increase employment and reduce unemployment. We can see that there have been 150 000 new jobs since the government took office. We also see a fall in unemployment, and youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years. The government has worked extensively to get more people in education, so that the skills that companies demand can be met. We've got the housing building going. We are also about to make major infrastructure investments, and we are increasing the maintenance of, among other things, the railways. We are also pursuing a more active labour market policy. These are important steps along the way. Of course, the government will continue to work and make further efforts to enable more people to receive the training that companies are asking for. But Arbetsförmedlingen will also work more actively, not least with newly arrived women in Sweden who need to get faster into the labour market. However, I do not think, like Lotta Finstorp, that it is precisely the ceiling of the RUT deduction that will solve these problems. I think that measures are needed quite different from the fact that it is the 4 500 people with an average income of over SEK 1 million who are going to solve this problem to some extent. I do not share the view that this would be a particularly important issue in this context. I believe that many of these people will continue to buy RUT services as before, given the income involved.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-179	Mr President, I would like to We're in a boom now. But in my municipality of residence Flen, for example, unemployment is just over 15 per cent. In particular, among those who have an education and are born in Sweden, unemployment is very low. However, in order to perform RUT services in a good way, an academic education is not required. That's the kind of job we need to get more of. As I said earlier, the ceiling on the RUT deduction is not really a problem for the buyers. Instead, it is about the signalling system for those who want to start a business in this industry and who want to hire more people. That is exactly what we need in Sweden. It is a problem for them rather than for those who are going to buy the RUT services. The CEO of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise describes in a very concrete way the entrepreneur's everyday life. It is perhaps then that this limit, the ceiling level, becomes the problem. Entrepreneurs take risks in their entrepreneurship – risks with invested capital and raised profits. Companies aren't just ticking and walking. On the contrary, they have a responsibility for employees. If the proceeds are not sufficient, the owner will arrive at the last time the wages are due on the 25th. That's what an entrepreneur's everyday life looks like. Almega recently presented figures showing how the halving of the RUT deduction has hit the RUT sector hard. It is also where it is seen that female entrepreneurship has slowed down. We want to see more women starting businesses. I do not think I am getting concrete answers. How are we going to get more women to start service businesses? And how are we going to reduce unemployment among those born outside Sweden?
i-f415e0d498da1e91-183	Mr President, I would like to How are we going to get more women born abroad to get to work quickly? Raising the ceiling of the RUT deduction is probably one of the most inefficient measures that can be pursued, as it affects so few buyers. Much more extensive and broad action is needed. It is about ensuring that these people are educated, if that is what they need. It is a matter of replenishing and complementing education if you have training from the past. It is about setting high demands on these people to participate in teaching Swedish. It is about redeploying parental insurance, so that you do not start your life in Sweden with a long parental leave, but quickly come out in education in Swedish and also further education. It is about more people being given the opportunity to use the extra services in welfare that this government has introduced. And here the government has a very broad and comprehensive package. If we believe that this would be resolved by raising the ceiling of the RUT deduction, then the extent of the problem is not quite clear. This is about much broader and more important tasks. On the other hand, it is clear that what the Moderates have taken up is that the group of approximately 4,500 people with an average income of 1 million a year is not given the opportunity to make RUT deductions in the same way as they have done in the past. It is clear that the care that the Moderates feel for these millions of wage earners makes the rest of us recognize the old Moderates, and we know what it is that they protect.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-186	Mr President, I would like to Maria Stockhaus has asked Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin what proposals he and the government have to get more teachers. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The government has since day one worked to strengthen the teaching profession and to get more people to want to become and remain teachers. The lack of teachers is a high priority for the government, and the government is implementing several measures to counter it, both in the short and long term. The University Chancellor's Office's report shows that students with high upper secondary school grades remain in teacher education and that the drop-out from pre-school education is less than average when it comes to drop-outs from other programs in the university. On the other hand, we see that subject teacher education stands out as a large proportion of students with lower grades drop out of it. An important conclusion of the report is therefore that it is not possible to draw all teacher trainings over one side. For me, it is on this basis that it is a priority for more people to get through the subject teacher training. For example, the Government has referred proposals aimed at creating a more attractive subject teacher education of higher quality. I am also waiting for documentation from the Swedish Council for Higher Education on suitability assessment, which has now been tested at two higher education institutions. However, it is positive that the number of applicants for teacher training has increased by 71 per cent between autumn 2011 and autumn 2016. To meet the increased demand, the government is building up teacher training. The expansion has taken place in collaboration with the higher education institutions, which have taken into account the needs of the school, search pressures for the courses and that the quality can be maintained. The expansion is also combined with a quality enhancement of approximately SEK 900 million in total during the term of office to, among other things, teacher training. The funds should be used, among other things, to increase the proportion of teacher-led time. In addition, the Government is carrying out a number of other initiatives to increase the number of qualified and qualified teachers. One example is experimentation with complementary educational education, so-called KPU, to increase the number of subject teachers in mathematics, natural orientations and technology. Another example is the investment in a special KPU for those with a doctoral degree to get more doctoral teachers in the Swedish school. The lack of teachers must also be met with increased attractiveness in the teaching profession. It is crucial for more people to want to become teachers and for active teachers to stay in school. Through the teacher's salary boost, the government has contributed to increasing attractiveness. The investment means increased salary for about 60 000 teachers. We are also working to improve working conditions in schools, including by reducing the administration of teachers. The government has also invested in more employees at school. Overall, the government is carrying out many measures to overcome the teacher shortage, and this work continues. The supply of teachers is a crucial issue for Swedish schools. All children deserve to meet competent and qualified teachers.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-193	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. I share the Government's conclusion that all children deserve to meet competent and qualified teachers; we all agree on that. Therefore, I think that the UKÄ report on the drop-out of teacher training is very serious. Worst is it when it comes to subject teachers and also middle school teachers. Yesterday I was at Lidingö, at Källängen School, which is a so-called training school. They had hoped for many VFU students in middle school, but they have been told that in principle there are no at all to receive. If we do not train enough teachers, we will never be able to raise the Swedish school's results. The teachers are crucial for us to get good results in school. In its response, the Government is following up a number of measures that are being taken, but that is far from sufficient. In the short term, it is difficult to see that any of the actions lead to a significant increase in the number of qualified teachers. Extending regular teacher training by 3 600 places does not lead to more teachers in the short term, and the question is how many teachers there will be in the long term given what UKÄ says in its report. We Moderates think it would be better to invest more in the KPU and redistribute the money so that more places were created there. We have several suggestions for changes around the KPU that could lead to more qualified teachers faster than with the 3 600 places in the regular, long teacher training. Today, between 50 and 60 percent of those applying for a KPU are adopted. Interest in the KPU has increased sharply, which of course is great. We need to get more accepted because the drop-out from the KPU is considerably fewer than from the long teacher training. Today, the eligibility rules for the KPU look very different, so it can be difficult for a person interested in reading a KPU to understand what the different higher education institutions require. It looks different, and it is difficult to get an overview. There are also many who miss getting accepted because of a few points. There should be more opportunity for higher education institutions to make exceptions. There is something in Sweden called Teach for Sweden, which I know the Government is well acquainted with. In our draft budget for next year, we are spending more than twice as much as the government on precisely Teach for Sweden. This program has a very interesting setup that actually means that those who walk a KPU are out in the classroom from day one. In addition, the programme has been complemented by both digitalisation and leadership, which is something that is lacking in teacher training. Teach for Sweden today has far more qualified applicants than it is possible to accept, which I find boring. There could be a great deal more reception, and those people would, as I said, be out in the classrooms. It also invests in those schools that have particularly tough conditions. It would thus be possible to get more Teach for Sweden candidates in our schools today. There is a need for faster ways and more flexibility. I understood earlier, after we Moderates went out with some suggestions about the KPU, that the government was cautiously positive. I am a little curious to hear when we might see more concrete political proposals.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-201	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the post, Maria Stoc khaus! I have said this before in this House, and I say it again: I am glad that the Moderates are now engaged in the lack of teachers. As I said, the government has been doing it since day one. This was one of the great challenges we inherited from the bourgeois government. One was falling learning results, and the other was a teacher shortage that was approaching and that we are now in the midst of. It is quite right that it takes an average of three to five years to train teachers, so it is clear that such a short-term shortage cannot be trained. On the other hand, we need to think long-term. According to the OECD, Sweden has one of the oldest teachers throughout the OECD, and this means that many will retire in the coming years. You were aware of this when you were in the government, Maria Stockhaus, but it is not that there were very many sharp proposals made at the time. Precisely KPU was one of the things I early identified as an opportunity to get more people who may already have an academic degree or background to want to become a teacher by supplementing with an educational education. Above all, this is important for us to get more subject teachers. I said it in my answer, but it seems very difficult to get it in, so again: It looks very different between the different teacher training courses. It's from the subject teacher training we have defected, and that's because it's a long education. The report from the UKÄ shows very clearly that they have come in with the lowest grades that do not pass the whole education. We now need to look at how to increase the throughput there. With regard to the extension of the 3 600 seats, they are distributed among the different teacher training courses and also within the KPU. So we're building up the KPU. So the proposals you have made are excellent, because it is work that is already under way. We have also made several different variants of the KPU, including the ones I mentioned – for researchers and for those in the field of deficiency, who can get a job while they read in the KPU. It is a way of getting them out of school while they are training and complementing their educational education. Several measures are therefore being taken. We are also taking steps to make use of those with foreign teacher training, that is, new arrivals who have been teachers in the past, so that they can also attend supplementary training courses. It goes without saying that we will continue to look at this. We also give more money to Teach for Sweden, which we see as an additional complement in this work. In fact, our universities and colleges have the opportunity to have more KPU sites and use the money more flexibly if they so wish and if the search pressure is high. We are doing this extension in close dialogue with our universities in order for it to be done in a responsible way. I am concerned when I hear that we do not want to expand teacher training so that it meets not only the demand of students but also the demand for teachers, both in the short and long term, that is out in our municipalities and free schools. That is why I think we should work together on these issues to resolve this. In the short term, however, it will not only be possible to educate the shortage, but we need to take more action.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-209	Mr President, I would like to The fact that we need more qualified teachers is probably something the alliance government knew about and that it was working on even during the alliance period, with career positions and a new teacher education because the old teacher education had a pretty bad reputation and received a lot of criticism for quality. We also started to invest in Teach for Sweden so that it could get started in Sweden. However, with regard to the decline in results, it has to be said that they have turned upwards, which is to be welcomed. It is hardly this government's efforts that have led to a better result in the PISA survey; the work to improve the results was started under the alliance government. If you get more places, the intake points are likely to fall, as many of the teacher training courses do not have enough applicants today. Since the UKÄ report clearly shows that it is those with lower intake points who have the most difficulty in passing teacher training and who drop out, I find it difficult to see that a substantial expansion would lead to more teachers instead of more drop-outs. I see that risk as quite imminent, and then the question is whether it is right to spend the money on this in order to get more teachers. In its interpellation response, the Government highlighted some general measures taken to improve the status of the teaching profession. Among other things, the Government considers that the Government has reduced the administration of teachers. I ask myself a little bit of question about that, because I have had a lot of contact with teachers and teachers' unions and that is not what I hear from the teachers who work at school. Among other things, the new assessment aid, which we are behind the idea itself, has meant an enormous amount of administration for teachers – both in terms of implementation and in terms of documenting. It is not optimal, and it has imposed even more administration. The national tests and correction of them are also something that teachers highlight as a large and burdensome area that reduces their impressions and places a heavy burden on them in terms of work. Nevertheless, it will take us until 2022 to see digital national tests. I find this odd, given that technical solutions are in fact in place for this already today. Indeed, the list of measures to tackle the shortage of teachers needs to be made even further. More flexibility and more roads are needed. We Moderates are open to finding even more solutions. Among other things, we are open to creating independent teacher training that could complement and compete with existing training. Above all, the initiatives that have been in place in this area are precisely about the KPU, which makes more such places welcome.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-216	Mr President, I would like to No, I want to say. We need to do even more things, and we need to do them in close dialogue with those who are going to train. We will also ensure that the teachers who come out are of high quality. I am a little curious about this, because we believe that one of the bottlenecks that exists at our universities is to have doctoral teachers in teacher education. Getting them out takes a very long time. Maria Stockhaus says that she wants to contribute to starting private teacher training, but where will they get their skills? Who will graduate those who will work in teacher training and teach? The risk is that this is just a zero-sum game and that you move around students, which is exactly what your privatisations always lead to. There will be no increased volumes, but there will only be a round shift of the skills required to do a good job. It is not due to this government that the results in school have improved. Nor is it the merit of the previous government, but it is the efforts of teachers and students that make the results now turn around. However, if this positive trend is to continue, we must ensure that more qualified teachers have time for each student so that they can continue the hard and successful work that they have started. Then we must also know that there will be more colleagues as the old colleagues retire. I am very concerned when I hear that people want to cut back on teaching places. It is true that the search print is different, but as I said: UKÄ's report clearly shows that it is on the subject teacher training that those who come in with too low grades find it difficult to complete the long education. We have a high search pressure – almost two applicants per location. There's a high throughput-- as I said in my answer, it's higher than in many other colleges. Why do you want to reduce the number of places on pre-trainer training? Basic school teacher training is somewhere in between, but the search pressure is still good enough, and the flow is good. The challenges are found in the subject teacher training. What we are going to focus on is how we can get more people to cope with this long, qualified education. An aptitude assessment has been carried out on a test to see if it can be a good way. Perhaps there are other things that we need to do in order to have the right prior knowledge to complete a long and advanced education. In the meantime, as I said, we can work to get more people to read the KPU to become a subject teacher. My question goes to Maria Stockhaus: Are you also going to reduce the number of places on pre-school education?
i-f415e0d498da1e91-225	Mr President, I would like to The search pressure is high in the pre-trainer training, as are the intake points and throughput. There's a need for more preschool teachers, so there's no reason to pull down there. I am more concerned about subject teacher training and also middle school teacher training, which has had problems with drop-outs from those with low grades. The advantage of independent teacher training could be that there is something new that could attract new groups. Many who apply to KPU do not get into the KPUs that exist, perhaps because they lack points or anything else. Perhaps it is possible to create more flexibility and a slightly different direction. Freestanding alternatives that are not linked to teacher training may attract more people with high grades from the business community to join a KPU. Unfortunately, many still see teacher training as an education that is not of such high quality, although this has changed over time. Meeting a qualified and well-trained teacher should be a self-evident right. Unfortunately, today the students with the greatest challenges are the students who meet the most inexperienced and the least educated teachers. It is important that we get more well-trained teachers. For example, we could get twice as many from Teach for Sweden if the government spent as much money on Teach for Sweden as the Moderates have put in their budget. It's a very appreciated path. These students get very good reviews of their schools, and these students also work in schools with the biggest challenges, which I find particularly gratifying. I think it is important for higher education institutions to have greater flexibility in how they want to use the money they receive to increase the number of teacher training places. Let the universities use the money for the long education if there is a high search pressure there and if you can maintain a good quality. An alternative would be to extend the KPU, which today receives only about 50% of applicants.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-231	Mr President, I would like to I never got an answer on how Maria Stockhaus would get teachers to these private teachers' colleges. It is a question of not having really thought about these things. I am glad that Maria Stockhaus does not want to reduce the number of pre-schooler training places. I wish you would also support the extension of these 3 600 seats. I think we need to do things in the short term, but we also need to do things in the long term. Then it is good if we can find common ways forward that are based on facts and not on, for example, lumping together all the teacher training. Our universities and colleges already have this flexibility. They will adapt the dimensioning of their education to student demand and labour market needs. If the student demand for KPU is high, they have the opportunity to increase the number of KPUs, which we will be very clear about in the future. With regard to the subject teacher training, we are now taking steps to make it more attractive, not least the subject teacher training for grades 7 – 9, where we have seen both a low search pressure and many drop-outs. We will also need to do more to look at the right pre-knowledge to complete the long subject teacher training. As I said, this is an issue that we have been working on since day one. There is no question that engages us more. The right to meet a qualified and knowledgeable teacher is one of the most important things in order for the positive trend of improved knowledge results for all students in Swedish schools to continue.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-237	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Christensson has asked me if I and the government will present some further proposals to improve the conditions for international students and researchers to apply to Sweden. Fredrik Christensson has also asked which regulations I and the government are prepared to change urgently in order to reduce the current problem for international students. After the bourgeois government introduced tuition fees in 2011, the number of non-European students fell sharply, and it is only recently that negative developments have begun to reverse. It is extremely important that students want to come to Sweden to study. It enhances the quality of Swedish education, and in this global world everyone benefits from Swedish universities being international environments. Increased internationalisation in higher education and research is necessary for Sweden to better meet national and global societal challenges, increase its competitiveness and strengthen its position as a knowledge nation. Universities and higher education institutions therefore need to be given good opportunities to increase internationalisation. In particular, well-functioning and clear regulatory frameworks are an important issue. The University Chancellor's Office's report highlights several important development areas. As you know, the Government has recently set up an investigation to increase the internationalisation of Swedish universities and colleges. An important part of the assignment to the investigator is precisely to make an overall review of the system including registration and tuition fees, recruitment and review of residence permits. I share Fredrik Christensson's view that it is important to improve the opportunities for international students to apply to Sweden. At the same time, it is important not to continue with swift and ill-considered measures, which in turn must be patched and fixed. The study must be given sufficient time to now develop a coherent and well-functioning system for the reception of international students. An important part of the reception of third-country students is the smooth functioning of the procedures for examining residence permits. The Finnish Immigration Service has so far received more applications for residence permits for studies this year than during the corresponding period last year. Looking at the Government's ambition to increase the internationalisation of universities and colleges, this is gratifying. Unfortunately, this, combined with the fact that the Migration Agency still has a heavy workload, has also led to longer processing times. In recent years, the Government has provided the Finnish Immigration Service with significant resources. The agency's administrative grant has increased from just over SEK 3 billion in 2014 to nearly SEK 6 billion in 2017. The Government has also set as a goal for the Migration Agency that the processing times for applications for residence permits on the basis of, among other things, studies should be as short as possible, taking into account the nature of the matter. In addition, the Agency has been tasked with developing an action plan for shortening processing times. The measures now taken by the Finnish Immigration Service are intended to lead to shorter processing times in the current and future years. I am also convinced that the study on increasing the internationalisation of universities will develop a well-functioning system for the reception of third-country students, so that Sweden continues to develop as an attractive country of study and a leading knowledge nation.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-246	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for his reply. In December, I had an interpellation debate with the Minister for Migration on this issue. Last year the universities perceived a rather big problem with the international students' ability to apply to Sweden. This concerned the processing times of the Migration Agency, partly also the handling of visa applications and similar processes in third countries. We witnessed, among other things, that about a hundred students who had been admitted to Jönköping University due to the bureaucracy and regulations in Sweden were prevented from coming to Sweden to start their courses on time. It is just one of many examples from the higher education institutions that I have spoken to during the past year. As the Minister says in his reply, it is gratifying that more students are applying to Sweden this year than last year. But this makes it even more important to solve this problem, because it not only creates problems for the higher education institutions, which have an uncertainty about how many students will start the education at the higher education institutions and thus what resources you have to work from outside. This particularly affects the individuals who have their dream and hope of being able to start studies in Sweden, and who have even entered courses in Sweden, but who due to bureaucracy, admission rules or long processing times at the Migration Agency cannot do so. Just before I wrote my interpellation to the Government, there was a report from the University Chancellor's Office, pointing to a number of shortcomings in the current system. One of these, which I highlight in the interpellation, concerns the refund of both registration fees and tuition fees. UKÄ points to the problem that it is unclear in the current regulatory framework whether or not it is possible to get the tuition fee back. This particularly affects those students who hope and believe that they will be able to start their studies in Sweden – not only because they lose one or a couple of years before they can start their studies, which are postponed because of Swedish bureaucracy, but they also risk losing money on it, which in my opinion is totally unacceptable. Action is needed. What the government has presented in the report on internationalisation is worthwhile, and there are many parts in it that I think are important to point out, as Swedish students' opportunities to study abroad. But what I want to focus on in this debate is foreign students, third country students, who are looking to Sweden to study. There will be a problem when the investigation, to which the Government refers all internationalisation issues, will submit its final report, focusing on foreign students in Sweden, only in October 2018. This means that we will have new rules in place at best by 2020, which is six years after the government took office. I did not get quite clear on the Minister's reply if the government is prepared to take any action regarding changes in the regulations or in other ways to facilitate these students here and now. In addition, is the government prepared to present any further proposals to shorten processing times? Developing an action plan is worthwhile. However, during the autumn, the Center Party will present proposals to, among other things, enable residence permits throughout the study period to reduce red tape but also increase the security and security of the students who come to Sweden, and it may also be about doctoral students.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-253	Mr President, I would like to I think Fredrik Christensson and I fully agree on how important this is. It also seems to us that we agree that the previous government's decision on these issues was rather hasty and not impact assessment. It is the regulatory framework that was then put in place that we are now living with, where there are ambiguities on issues such as the issue of repayment. It is also unclear what should be included in the cost-covering mission. All of this we now need to get a comprehensive picture of. Here, the University Chancellor's report is an important knowledge base. But it is precisely a knowledge base that will be used to enable the investigation and the investigator to propose a more comprehensive solution that is also sustainable over time. I do not think that we should make the mistake that was made during the bourgeois government and do a hasty work which then turns out not to really work and which you have to patch and fix in. As far as the processing time is concerned, we have taken action. The Migration Agency is not under my responsibility, but I conduct a continuous dialogue with the responsible minister on this matter. We will see if the measures we have now taken are effective. Otherwise, we will of course see if we need to do something further to increase security but also the attractiveness of coming to Sweden as a student. As I said, we are now seeing an upward trend, that there are more people who come here and also from those parts of the world who have paid education. It's incredibly positive. But for the experience to be as good as possible, we need to make sure that it is a good start for these students. As Fredrik Christensson says, it is also important for our universities to be able to have good planning and use their resources in the best possible way. The internationalisation investigation is important for us to be able to define a strategy but also to get a system that works without it becoming a hazelnut where we have to go in and patch and fix afterwards.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-258	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. There are several parts of it that I react to and want to highlight. A question I would like to hear from the Minister is about the investigation that has been set up. What has been the big problem during the autumn is the handling of foreign students who apply to Sweden. It was therefore surprising when I received the investigation directives and was able to note that these particular parts were advanced very far, unlike the internationalisation parts that apply to the Swedish students' opportunities to get out into the world. I would like to hear the Government's explanation as to why this particular issue is being postponed, which, in my opinion, has been one of the most problematic in recent times. Last year's management was very unhappy for the higher education institutions and for the students who had come here. My hope is that we will not repeat the mistake again, because if we do, we risk once again getting into the situation that students may not come here even though they have been adopted. Then the international reputation of Sweden as a study country risks being destroyed. That is why action is needed, and quite urgently. Investing in providing the Migration Agency with the requirement to develop an action plan is a good thing. However, there are also many regulatory frameworks linked to this. As far as the application procedure for international students is concerned, there is currently quite a lot of duplication between the universities and the Migration Agency, including in terms of students' knowledge of English. The teaching institutions check whether they have the necessary knowledge and the Migration Agency then makes a similar assessment. It is unnecessary and can be avoided, for example through clarity in the division of responsibilities. But it's also about the clarity against the students, that you should know when you will be liable or not. I think this is also an important part of increasing attractiveness. When I read the government's investigation directives, I do not see that the government has included this in the internationalisation inquiry. I wish the Minister could explain that I have not read it carefully enough, although I perceive that I have done so. I would also like to hear what the Government's action plan is if 2017 is like 2016 when it comes to international students and the challenges for both universities and individuals. What is the government prepared to do if we experience a similar situation again? In my opinion, this would be unfortunate and unacceptable.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-263	Mr President, I would like to As I said earlier, it is important that we actually say that it is the reform that was made under the previous government that is the basis for our having an unclear regulatory framework in terms of fees and refunds. It was a fast and far too fast and hasty reform that did not carry out an impact assessment. The most dramatic thing, and the one that was most ebattated, was that we lost 80% of third country students. As I said, it is slowly but surely turning back. However, this made our Swedish universities less internationalized, which was not good for the quality development of our universities and colleges. I don't want to make this mistake again. I want to see an investigation and give the investigator sufficient time to submit a comprehensive proposal that includes all the aspects that Fredrik Christensson addresses. Then we can have a system that is sustainable and workable so that we do not end up in this situation again. So the answer to Fredrik Christensson's question is that we therefore need to have sufficient time for this. The task is for the investigator to conduct an overall review of issues such as recruitment, admission, payment of tuition fees and application for a residence permit. All these elements are included in the assignment, and it is clearly stated that the entire system of incoming fee-paying students should work well. When it comes to outgoing students, we want a quick feedback. The same applies to the overall objective of internationalisation. It is important that our Swedish students also get away. They get away to a lesser extent than the EU 2020 target, which says that 20% of a country's students should study in another country during part of their education. Today, 14% of Swedish students leave, and in some professional courses it is only 4%. That's not good. We need to ensure that Swedish students also receive parts of their education in other countries. But the greatest focus has been on the incoming students and the dramatic decline of third-country students following the reform of the bourgeois government. That is why we are now going to try to find a system that is comprehensive, that solves many of the problems that have arisen and that is sustainable over time. We believe that the investigator needs this time to make such a proposal.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-270	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. However, I am not completely aware of this. I share the positive view that the number of international students has been increasing for some time. But the challenges we see are here and now, and they are mainly linked to the regulations and bureaucracy of the international students who come here. Here the Center Party has presented a number of proposals, including extended residence permits, which would both reduce red tape and increase security for students. We have also pointed out the problem of duplication of work between universities. The Government refers to an investigation that is well ahead of time and does not provide a clear answer as to why the question of international students who apply here should be dealt with for longer than the question of Swedes who apply abroad. I would like to see some clarity from the government here. Much of this can be done through changes in regulations and the like to bring clarity to the system here and now. With the problems we saw last year and the number of students increasing in the coming year, Sweden's reputation as a student country risks being destroyed if it is again that students are admitted to courses but cannot start their studies. This affects both universities and individuals. My focus is to facilitate these. If you lift up what previous governments have done or have not done, you lose this focus. The government has been in office for two and a half years, and I expect proposals to be presented to solve the problems and societal challenges we face. In my interpellation, I have pointed out some challenges which I hope the government will urgently take on board.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-276	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we have taken action. Among other things, I commissioned UKÄ to do the survey of how universities and colleges worked with the fees and why these differed so much. I have also had a series of internationalisation seminars where we have discussed what challenges we have when it comes to getting more internationalized environments at our universities and colleges and how we increase Sweden's attractiveness as a study. We have also taken measures regarding the increased pressure on the Migration Agency, which has been the result of Sweden receiving a lot of new arrivals, which has hit our students and higher education institutions in a negative way. So measures have been taken. Now we will see whether these measures are enough or whether we need to do more. Once again, it is a complex system, and it is important that we develop a holistic system. Just patching and fixing and jerking in individual threads without seeing the consequences of the whole is the wrong way to go. It was 2011, and so is 2017. We need a thorough, comprehensive investigation and a proposal that makes Sweden an attractive study and that internationalisation is increasing in our higher education.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-281	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Christensson has asked me how I intend to proceed with the question of increasing the comparability of education so that students can make informed choices now that it is not handled within the framework of the quality assurance system. When the University Chancellor's Office and the Swedish Council for Higher Education were established in 2013, one of the aims was to have a clear division of roles between the authorities. This avoids duplication of tasks and creates synergies in a number of areas, such as information on higher education. It is particularly important for the individual student to have access to comprehensive information on the educational offerings of universities and higher education institutions. The Swedish Council for Higher Education has therefore been tasked with providing relevant and factual information on higher education to enable students and other relevant target groups to make balanced choices. Within the framework of that assignment, the authority has developed the website study.nu where there is overall information on higher education. There, the reader can compare courses, get information about how higher education studies are conducted and how the application is made, and what alternatives are available after completing the education. In addition, the agency focuses on nformation efforts as study and career advisors, which are an important target group in the work on broader recruitment. Like the questioner, I think it is important for women and men from unskilled homes to have the opportunity to study at universities and colleges. It is a major problem that the skewed recruitment to the university persists. Unfortunately, the previous government did not give priority to promoting and broadening recruitment to the university, and it became more difficult to enter the university during the previous term of office. This government has put wider recruitment on the agenda again and has been working to review which initiatives need to be taken to reduce misrecruitment. On behalf of the Government, the Swedish Council for Higher Education has produced a report on the current situation, which has now been received and analysed. The government also invests in more educational places, which are distributed throughout the country to improve opportunities for further studies. Information on higher education is important, but a number of other measures are also needed. In principle, all higher education institutions organise activities aimed at school young people in both primary and secondary schools. Most universities also carry out activities aimed at groups where few go on to the university, mainly unemployed, refugees and young adults. It is also common for higher education institutions to cooperate with other important actors, such as Arbetsförmedlingen, municipal adult education and folk high schools. To broaden participation in higher education studies, many higher education institutions also provide support in the form of scientific writing, language support and various mentoring programmes. The work of higher education institutions with assessments of real competence also contributes to broader recruitment. In the future, work will also continue to review access to higher education and promote lifelong learning opportunities. Overall, I believe that there are good opportunities for prospective students to inform themselves about higher education in order to make balanced study choices.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-295	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Government for its answer. My interpellation is based on an announcement from the Riksdag in spring 2016. All parties in the Swedish Parliament supported this announcement, which deals with the importance of protecting and strengthening the opportunity for students and future students to make informed choices. It is above all a question of creating a good and transparent system. This was dealt with in the context of the development of a new quality evaluation system. The Government made a number of changes, including an important change that means that not all educations will be evaluated by the University Chancellor's Office, UKÄ. The focus is much more on the universities themselves evaluating their own programmes. UKÄ will conduct some systematic reviews in certain education or training areas. This creates some problems. At studie.nu, as the Minister points out, there is some information for prospective students. It is possible to row through the jungle by different eligibility groups for equivalent training courses. You can find out about what the admission points are, and you can currently also see quality evaluations from the previous quality evaluation system. Now that the quality evaluation system is changing, this obviously places new demands on the state, which in this case provides training, to enable informed choices for future students. The announcement remains urgent. Now it has become apparent that the most appropriate way to deal with the issue was not within the framework of the new quality evaluation system. UKÄ also points out that this should be a special mission. I share that view. We can look at our Nordic neighbours. Both Denmark and Norway have more well-developed systems. The most obvious is a government initiative where training can be compared. In Denmark, a system has recently been put in place to provide students with information on the salary received by the students who have completed the courses. Information is provided about the establishment of the labour market and whether the education has been relevant to the jobs that students have received. Great focus is on previous students' experiences and how they view the education. Norway has a similar system, focusing on how former students view the quality of education. These two systems should be looked at by Sweden to enable more informed study choices. More informed study choices are particularly important for people from unskilled homes. They are not in the same position to know what to expect from the courses. Today, studying three years at college is not only three years that could have been spent working and making money, but it also often gives student debt of 200 000 – 250 000 kronor. So it is a big investment, and for that one must be able to know in advance what one can expect. With Sweden's current system, this is difficult. It is difficult to find out the difference between equivalent programmes at two different higher education institutions or between different programmes at the same higher education institution. What training premium will this give me as an individual? What are my conditions in the labour market? This is particularly important from two points of view. Students who choose to study at the university do so mainly for two reasons. Either you want a specific job and you train yourself as a doctor or an engineer, for example, or you do it to get a job at all.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-306	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Fredrik Christensson, for the questions! I think it was clear in my reply that we have taken action. It is, however, about two authorities that work with different things. UHR works as a promotion agency and is about to inform the students so that they can make well-informed study choices. Another thing that I think you are calling for is to be able to follow the quality reviews to see the quality of education. I also think that this is important. The University Chancellor's Office is now looking at how the evaluations that will be made in the future can be made available. Since they are based on the higher education institutions' own quality work, they must also account for how this works. Making it available can be an important part. At the same time, I object a little to the description, as I understand it, that education is only a finished product to be consumed. Education, and above all higher education, is much more than that. We want the students to also participate in the programme and that during the course of the programme they should be involved in influencing and making demands for increasingly higher quality. This is precisely the aim of the new quality evaluation system. It should not only examine but also act as a driver of quality, i.e. that quality deficiencies should be addressed. If you just post the review but not the follow-up, the information will soon become obsolete. Something that applied at the time of an audit is no longer valid because measures have been taken. Even with the help of the students, they may have found ways to strengthen quality. It is extremely important to me that we have a quality evaluation system that acts as a driving force for quality, thus pushing for a higher quality, and not just a review or something that students can choose different products from. The important thing is the content of the education and how to work to ensure quality. The students should be able to make informed choices based on this. The last quality evaluation system was not great. As it did not measure up and examined too few parts of the education, we were thrown out of the European Joint Evaluation System. We now have an evaluation system that more closely reviews the whole and that does so based on the quality work of the higher education institutions. It feels incredibly much safer, I think. However, we will also ensure that quality reviews and work on quality that is ongoing to constantly improve the quality of higher education can be consulted.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-313	Mr President, I would like to Every year, the state spends 20 billion on basic education. Today we have a regulation and legislation that says that students' demand should steer education. I think this is a good thing. But for the students' demand to be able to control, it requires that they have good information about what they can expect from the education. That is precisely why I have been very committed to this issue. You have to give students better opportunities to create the demand that you want to see. If you look at what students want from higher education, it is primarily about a specific job or a job at all. Then it is important that they can find out what they can expect in the labour market after a certain training course. What is the link with the labour market? In this, former students are absolutely crucial. We in the Center Party want there to be clearer opportunities to get information about what the establishment of the labour market for former students looks like and how the higher education institutions work. It is also about giving higher education institutions the opportunity to sell themselves to the students and show what distinguishes their own education from other programmes. More information can provide better decisions. I believe that this would primarily benefit smaller universities. Previous quality evaluations have shown that these have very high quality. But when students choose a certain education, the choices are often based on historical things, such as a university name or such, which is unfortunate. With increased comparability and better information for prospective students, the conditions for making choices that benefit them increase. Today, however, we see that there are major challenges for higher education. The dropout is pretty big. This is partly based on insufficient knowledge of the profession to which you are trained or of the training chosen. We could make the higher education policy system much more efficient by giving students the opportunity to get better information before. Of course, students should still be able to make partial choices, drop out and repent, but with better clarity and better comparability you have better opportunities to make the right choices from the beginning based on the conditions you have for yourself. I share the Minister's view that higher education should not be a consumer product. It's an investment. It is important to see it from that perspective. You add three to five years, receive a couple of hundred thousand kronor in student loans and also suffer from loss of earned income compared to choosing another profession. We must ensure that higher education is seen to a greater extent as an investment. It's about making it more profitable to train and work in Sweden, but it's also about being able to know when you start your studies what you can expect for the education premium for that particular education. It is a bit distressing, I think, that the Government and the Government are not presenting any reforms. Our Nordic neighbours are very progressive and are pushing for better information for students in advance of elections. Why is the government not prepared to do more to increase access to easy-to-use information for students, so that they know what to expect from the courses they plan to apply for?
i-f415e0d498da1e91-322	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we are always prepared to do more. But it should be relevant and quality assured information. Fredrik Christensson says that sometimes you sometimes base your choices on your parents going to a certain university or on a historically good sound. But the risk is that the choice can also be based on historical quality data, for example. It was not the least so in the previous system. The previous system was by no means comprehensive. Two thirds of the training courses were available to watch. It was therefore not possible to make a quality comparison of all education in the old system either. In addition, the quality reviews were very quickly out of date due to the fact that the remarks about errors were taken into consideration in order to strengthen quality. Then this is not something that makes the elections easier. As I said, it is important that the universities report their quality work and that you as a student can take part of it. Of course, higher education is an investment. It's an investment on the part of society. We spend an incredible amount of money on getting more academically trained people. It is also an individual investment that is made, and not least I think it is important that that investment reduces the risk of unemployment quite substantially. The teaching institutions also follow up on what the labour market looks like and how many students move on to different types of work. It should then be remembered that we are not only training for the present labour market. We are also training for the future labour market. Many are the students who themselves create their jobs and are involved in creating new types of jobs in society. It is also a task of higher education. It is designed not only to fill the current jobs, but also to provide tools and tools to change the labour market and bring new ideas, new innovations and new businesses. I think that is an important part of what higher education should lead to. As I said, there will be information on quality reviews in the UKÄ database. It will be possible to make national comparisons of professional training in which we conduct national evaluations. Teacher training is the closest one. There will also be university reviews, so that you can make comparisons and get a national picture. I think it is important that UKÄ publishes its results but also that the universities do this. Then it is the UHR that has the task to inform about higher education and ensure that we get good basis for elections. There is certainly even more development work that can be done. However, information is already available on the content and structure of education and training, as well as on labour market prospects and quality, and that is what is most often asked for.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-328	Mr President, I would like to The data that can be produced on, among other things, study.Now mainly concerns labour market prospects for the industry; they do not point to the specific education and whether it is different to study at one or other higher education institution. Possibly it can help prospective students to know whether to study to an engineer or an economist and what the labour market outlook looks like for the different directions. There is a lot of information about higher education institutions today, with both UKÄ's reviews regarding external actors and the higher education institutions' own quality reviews. What I would like to see is better gathering it together and making it more informative and user-friendly for future students. This would allow a widening of recruitment and enable more students to make more informed choices, which is a very important issue. It is also important from a labour market perspective to know what it is you can expect from education and how the big investment you make with your own time and resources will pay off later in life. What the UKA itself points out is that it would like to see a special mission. Whether it should be on UKÄ or UHR is a question that you can discuss later. The most important thing is to gather the information available and possibly review whether there are any specific questions that should be asked to current and future students to give a more integrated approach to those who intend to read. It is important to make training a clearer investment. One should be able to compare with other educations but also against, for example, work. Today in Sweden we have an education premium that is extremely low. It does not pay to study in Sweden. We are among the worst countries in the OECD. We need to strengthen it in different ways, and it is today the students' demand that governs higher education. Then we must give them better opportunities to make more informed choices that build their future.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-331	Mr President, I would like to I thank Fredrik Christensson for a very interesting discussion, which I think leads a little forward – as always in this House, of course. There's more we can do. I want to make it clear that the UKA does not want another mission. That's a little bit the point of us dividing this up into two authorities; they would have different missions. It is the UHR that will have this promotion mission and support the students in their choices for higher education. However, I also think it is important that the data they produce in the form of quality reviews should be available to those who so wish. I would also like to point out that it is important for the individual universities to make themselves attractive to the students by telling them about their quality work and educational offerings, but also to inform them about what it has looked like for their students after they have completed the education. This needs to be strengthened with an alumni activity that can take advantage of people who have trained at that particular university. That way it can be followed up. Perhaps they can act as informants to the future students and those who are there. I believe that we agree that higher education needs to have a stronger link to the labour market. In addition to the possibility of making well-informed choices, I think that together we need to ensure that we have a stronger labour market link in all higher education, so that it becomes relevant but also strengthened in its quality and gives students what they need to be competitive in the labour market in the future.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-334	Mr President, I would like to Erik Andersson has asked me what measures I took between the information in November 2016 and the fact that the Director General on 26 January 2017 was taken out of office to get a complete picture of the situation within the National Property Board. Erik Andersson has also asked me when I realized that the maladministration in the Statens fastighetsverk could be suspected of affecting the highest level of management in the form of the Director General and what measures I have taken in relation to the suspected crime at the Statens fastighetsverk. The events at the National Property Board are serious. Confidence in the Authority has been adversely affected by what has happened. Since the police report in November 2016, the Government has followed developments in the agency. The notification concerned irregularities in the Office arising from the conduct of an individual former official. Only when the police carried out a search at the head office of the National Property Board on 25 January 2017, and, among other things, requested the Director General, did it become clear that he was suspected of a crime. When I was informed of this, immediate action was taken to enable the government to appoint a Deputy Director-General of the Authority. I am now continuously following developments within the National Property Board to ensure that measures are taken to restore confidence in the agency. Creating a good administrative culture and strengthening knowledge and compliance with the common state values is central to this work. It is also important to have proper internal governance and control. The Government has had close contacts with the Board of Directors of the National Property Board, which is responsible for internal governance and control at the Authority. The Government has commissioned Statskontoret to analyse the Swedish National Property Board's work to create a good administrative culture in the agency. Statskontoret shall make recommendations for measures that should be taken in an action plan. The National Property Board has commissioned an external reviewer to analyse how the Authority's policy documents have been followed. It is an initiative that the government welcomes.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-338	Mr President, I would like to It was a few weeks ago that we could hear about an event within the National Property Board. I think many people in Sweden lost their chin. First of all, it is extremely serious when authorities and officials are not doing their job properly. It undermines tax standards and ultimately democracy as a whole. Mr President, I would like to My opinion is every squandered crown of taxes is a theft from the people. It is serious when you are sloppy with tax money because it is other people's money, and other people's money should be extremely careful with. It is a dangerous situation when the state, in the form of an authority, is testing the confidence of its citizens, and particularly in this case for such a long time. You are being very thoughtful, Mr President, about how it could have lasted for such a long time. The former head of real estate at the National Property Board is now suspected of serious crime, gross bribery and fidelity against principals during the period 2011– 2016. In the program that drew attention to the criminal activity of the National Property Board, Cold Facts, we were able to hear how employees had warned about this for a long time. As I understood, the Director-General had also been informed about this, but nothing happened. What happened instead is something that I might find very strange: The former head of real estate was promoted within the authority rather than being fired or reported to the police, if everything that has emerged in the Cold Facts program is correct. Against the authority's own rules, the property manager also had to rent a fashionable dwelling at Rosersberg Palace. The castle is also within an area that he managed himself. Only there it feels completely wrong that you should be able to rent a dwelling where you are responsible. There have been renovations for tens of millions of SEK in the home, and the rent was only 12 000 SEK. It may also be wondered whether they were market-oriented. I think there are a lot of people who wonder how this could be possible and why no one pulled the emergency brake earlier. If one is to believe the program, it must also have been cheated with procurements, where salted invoices have been paid and commission must have been paid to the property manager in an arrangement that was arranged in such a way that a close relative must have worked at the constantly hired construction company. Furniture may have disappeared from the castle to a summer residence in Finland. You can't even understand that the events are taking place in Sweden. You can't believe it. What's going on in Statens fastighetsverk? Another question, of course, is whether the government has lost control of its own authority. Responsible Minister, who is Per Bolund, was also somewhat late to act. It depends a little on what answer I get in the next post. It is reported that Per Bolund has been aware of this since November. However, until January 26, no action was taken. That action seems to be a direct consequence of Cold Facts reporting. Unfortunately, it happens far too often that it is only when the media report something that they put things right, and then appropriate measures are taken. I think there are many who wonder what action the Government has taken since November in relation to the corruption that was going on within the National Property Board, if he was informed about it. The answer says that he is now continuously following developments. I want to know what action is being taken.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-345	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Erik Andersson, for important questions! It is very important to keep track of what information came to the government and what we then acted on. It is important to separate the two different police investigations that are currently under way. When the government became aware of the transaction, there was also a police report filed by the Statens fastighetsverk against the former employee. It made it the police who now have to investigate and see what happened. Has legislation been violated, and in what way? Then it is a court matter to condemn to action. It is also important to keep track of the governance of the state. We as ministers do not go in and make decisions on individual matters, but it is the authorities that have to act to maintain confidence. They must ensure that matters are dealt with and the work of the authorities is done in the order that we demand from the government. Of course, it is the authority that has the greatest responsibility. There the authority had also acted and went to the police with a report. Afterwards, new tasks have emerged concerning precisely the management's work and how it works. In January, suspicions emerged from the police that the Director General and a property manager were also suspected of criminal activity, i.e. gross infidelity to the principal. It was new information that we obviously did not know, because even the police did not know about it until then. When it then happened, the government immediately reacted by appointing a Deputy Director-General. Similarly, as soon as we have received information, we have naturally acted on that information. Now the government isn't just reactive. We are a proactive government that constantly tries to take initiatives before problems arise. As early as the end of 2014, the National Property Board was established so that it worked according to the Decree on Internal Governance and Control. This calls for increased audit efforts, for a separate auditor's unit and for constant monitoring of how to strengthen internal governance and control. It is precisely because the National Property Board is an actor that makes large procurements. When there are large procurements and large resources, there is also an increased risk of corruption. Then you have to work proactively. So has the government. Now we've worked on it. We have created a more stable governance of the National Property Board by appointing Birgitta Böhlin as Deputy Director General, who is now appointed for the rest of the year. It gives us time to have a regular recruitment process and ensure that we have an Executive Director-General in place, an ordinary Director-General who can lead the work in the long term. Of course, we are also looking at what we can learn and how we can develop the state's activities so that something like this absolutely cannot happen again, because that is totally unacceptable. There the agency itself has initiated an internal review of its procedures and how to work. An external consultant has also been invited to have an independent review with new eyes on how to work. Have you followed the policy documents that you have had to work for, or have you not? In addition, the Government has now given a special assignment to Statskontoret to review and analyse the development of the National Property Board, draw conclusions from it and come up with an action plan with concrete proposals for measures for how the agency can work more effectively in the future, and ensure how to strengthen the executive management and restore confidence in the agency. In the area by area, we are now taking action to draw lessons from the mistakes and shortcomings that have existed and to ensure that something like this cannot be repeated.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-354	Mr President, I would like to The question is justified. First of all, the Government cannot, in itself, answer how and why the illegal activity could last for such a long time. I think we both think it's very strange. Especially when one's superior has become aware of something, one feels that a Director-General or another head of a government should act quickly so that taxpayers' money does not simply come into the wrong hands or get lost. If I have understood the Government correctly, the notification that came in November is that it had been made aware that an employee of the Statens fastighetsverk had acted unfairly and was suspected of what I mentioned earlier. In January, it was found that the Director-General was also suspected or in any way involved in this. Then there's a question. On January 24, the program was broadcast. On January 25, a search warrant was made. If I remember correctly, it was the day after the programme that the Government had a press conference about the replacement of the Director-General. Was it in connection with the programme that the Government learned that the Director-General may have been involved, or was it much earlier in January that the Government became aware of this? If that were the case, I think you might have acted a little sooner. We know one thing: it is the government that appoints Directors-General. Then, of course, the authorities are allowed to act in an independent and impartial manner, but on the question of the Director-General in particular, the Government cannot reject itself.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-358	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the government is responsible for the management of the state authorities. It is perfectly true that it is the government that appoints boards and directors-general. The Director-General responsible during this process was appointed by the previous government during the previous term of office. It is true that this has been going on for a long time, and I think it is a worrying task that is now taking place. There is also something that is the subject of a police investigation, that is to say: has the Director-General acted in accordance with the regulations we have and the legislation that exists, or has this not been dealt with in an acceptable manner? We will gain much more knowledge and knowledge of this when the preliminary investigation is concluded and the matter is settled in the legal system. It is incredibly important that all government activities work blamelessly. I have made it clear that the suspicion that exists now of corruption within a state authority is already unacceptable. We have to act on behalf of the government and also on behalf of the parliament to ensure that the state is above this kind of suspicion. We must have a system of rules and working methods which means that there is no possibility of acting irreparably in government activities by, for example, shoeing itself at the expense of taxpayers. Especially in operations where there are large procurements and where we have complex contracts, as in the case of the National Property Board, it is particularly careful and important that the business operates in an efficient and acceptable way. It is clear here that we need action from the government. We have also acted on this. We need to restore and ensure that there is a good administrative culture in government activities in general, not least when this type of large procurement activity is in progress. Obviously, we also need to increase knowledge of the common state values and ensure that it leads the work. We shall continue to ensure that this is what leads the work of the whole agency. Once the investigation is completed and we get a more precise course of events, we will gain more knowledge. It will also provide an important guide for how we can develop the operations of the National Property Board in the future. But I think it will also provide general knowledge that we can use to direct government activity in the general sense to learn from things that have happened and that have gone wrong and be able to do it better in the future. It is part of Statskontoret's review to come up with more general proposals on how to take action and have structures that do not risk having problems in the governance and management of government activities. It is incredibly important that we now ensure that the activities of the National Property Board continue, because it is an important activity that we carry out. These are great values that are being handled, and large procurements are currently under way. Of course, the activities must continue, and that is why we have appointed a Deputy Director-General. We must also ensure that there is a review of the work that has been carried out and a review of what may have gone wrong in the past. There we now have an audit from within the agency itself with an external consultant, and Statskontoret also has the task of reviewing the operations and really getting to the bottom of how to get functioning management structures in place that means that something similar cannot happen again.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-365	Mr President, I would like to All the measures that have been taken afterwards are great. This is how to do and act so that this can't happen again or at least to reduce the risk of it happening again. What I think most people find strange is how the business has been able to last so long. It cannot be held to account for by the Government. Instead, there would have been some early warning systems at the National Property Board that were triggered and led to the necessary measures being taken. The longer this kind of shady business goes on, the more taxpayers lose out on it. Mr President, I would like to I now turn to the question that I find most interesting. The first police report was about the head of real estate. Then the program was broadcast on January 24. On January 25, after the program, a search warrant was made. Now I do not remember, but I think it was on 26 January that the Government had a press conference and the Director-General was replaced. The question is: When during this period did the Government become aware that even the top management could be suspected of being involved? Was it in connection with the program that the Government found out, or was it long before? Was it a month before, in early January, or was it in mid-January? That's a rather interesting question. I believe that much faster action would have been taken if such information had been made known.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-369	Mr President, I would like to The information we received in November 2016 was serious. We think it is incredibly serious when there are suspicions of corruption in a state authority. This also meant that we immediately went to action and had close communication with the Board of Statens fastighetsverk and also direct contact with the agency. Then there was no suspicion. Since a police report had already been filed, they had acted resolutely against the former employee. Then, like many others, I watched the TV show. It is clear that these are worrying facts that come out of the programme, and we take this very seriously. We do not condemn anyone because of a television programme, but it is a police task to get to the bottom of what has happened. If a criminal offence has been committed, the person shall be convicted. Of course, the government could not do that. We do not control the police's activities, but they decide for themselves when there is reason to search the premises and go in with a preliminary investigation. It was chosen to do so on January 25. If you want to know the background to this, it is probably best that you turn to another minister and to the Police Authority. When this had happened and it was clear that there was a suspicion also of the Director-General, the government acted immediately. We clearly stated that a suspect in a crime cannot lead a state authority. That person must step aside. We immediately appointed a deputy Director-General who could lead the business forward. Moreover, we now have a more stable and stable solution that will work throughout this year so that we can have a permanent Director-General in place who can lead this important authority forward. I would like to return to the fact that what has happened and the suspicions that now exist within the National Property Board is something extremely serious. It also underlines the importance of continuing our work in the government. I hope that with the support of the Swedish Parliament we can have a good administrative culture in our authorities. It is of great importance that we learn from what has happened and that we ensure that the state values permeate the agency's activities and guide the day-to-day work.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-373	Mr President, I would like to Erik Andersson has asked Minister for Children, the Elderly and Gender Equality Åsa Regnér if she intends to take any initiative to make it clear that parents should not have the right to prevent their daughters from participating in swimming education. The question has been submitted to me for an answer. It is important that all schools work to create safe working environments between girls and boys. The School Act also provides for school education to be designed in such a way that all pupils are guaranteed a school environment characterised by security and study. The aim of the programme is for students to acquire and develop knowledge and values. The education must also convey and anchor respect for human rights and the fundamental democratic values on which Swedish society is founded. This applies to all schools in the Swedish school system, without exception. According to the primary school curriculum, the school should actively and consciously promote women's and men's equal rights and opportunities. It also states that the way in which girls and boys are met and judged at school, and the demands and expectations placed upon them, help to shape their perceptions of what is female and male respectively. The school therefore has a responsibility to counteract traditional gender patterns and will allow students to test and develop their abilities and interests regardless of gender. The Government has recently commissioned the National Board of Education to propose amendments to the curricula for primary school, among other things, to clarify the school's core values and assignments in these parts. Clarification should mean that schools cannot regularly and over time plan and implement gender-disaggregated education in schools. With regard to the exemption from compulsory teaching elements, I can see that this framework is restrictive and should be so. A comprehensive school student may only be released from such elements of teaching if there are exceptional reasons. Such a decision may also relate to only occasional occasions during a school year. In particular, a student must not be granted relief to the extent that the student is at risk of not meeting the knowledge requirements of a subject. This is relevant in this context as it is included in the knowledge requirements for passing grades in grades 6 and 9 in the subject of sport and health to be able to swim 200 meters. It is, of course, important that the regulatory framework should also be applied in practice as restrictively as the legislative text and the preparatory work express. Gender equality is, and will continue to be, crucial to the government's priorities and decisions.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-379	Mr President, I would like to This will be a day in the name of the Green Party. Recently, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that freedom of religion does not give parents the right to prevent their daughters from participating in the school's swimming education. The judgment was based on a case where a couple of parents refused to send their daughters to school swimming classes where both boys and girls participated. This problem is also present in Sweden. Freedom of religion is used as a reason not to participate or to have different times for women and men in the baths or in sports classes. There may be educational reasons for having separate activities, but religion can never be such a reason in a secular society. Not being able to swim is a threat to life. But the question is whether or not you can prevent your children from taking part in swimming. I think this is a question of equality, justice and freedom. In Sweden, the school has made sure that all children have the chance to become exactly what they want whether they are poor or rich, where they come from or what gender they have. Of course, there are studies showing that there are different socio-economic differences. We have compulsory schooling in the country. If you later choose to continue studying at higher education, it is also free of charge. In our system, anyone who wants to train can. It is a good system, and it has also proved to be very successful. It is not always from families that can afford to educate their children as the great entrepreneurs or geniuses of the future come. In this country, anyone who wants to succeed can. But it was not so many centuries ago that children in Sweden were forbidden to go to school because they had to help at home in production, in agriculture or in some other occupation – this for the family to survive. That's what we've left behind. We've built a system where children don't have to support their parents. So the question is not new, but now there is a completely different problem. Now we run into other problems. Some children are prevented from participating fully in school work. It could be because of religion, culture or something else. It is not a problem for most families or people to adapt to the way the system looks and to the country they come to. Clearly, however, school problems arise when parents do not want to adapt to existing systems. Many times Swedish schools almost corner themselves to accommodate as many people as possible. In many cases it may be a good thing, but in other cases it may be important to show what applies in the country to which you have come. Basically, it's no wonder you're adjusting. Nor is it any wonder that problems may arise. If you come to a country that is one of the most equal countries in the world from a culture where women may not be seen as an equal, it is clear that problems may arise. Then it is important, Mr President, that society stands firm and explains why it has been done in a certain way and why children should learn to swim. As I understood from the answer, the government will not take any specific action in response to the judgment.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-390	Mr President, I would like to Let me thank Erik Andersson for underlining how extremely important equality is for building a strong school. Just as Erik Andersson said, it is not so long ago that students' future was determined by the home they grew up in, not by the effort they put into school. There are now really worrying signs that we are back there. PISA reports that today, when it comes to equalising growing conditions in Sweden, we are worse than the OECD average. Based on one of the measures in PISA, most OECD countries are better at levelling out children's growing-up conditions than Sweden is. It is a really important question to address if we want steadily increasing results and knowledge from the Swedish students. The decision of the European Court of Human Rights that has been referred to is a good one. As a Swedish minister, I can say this with certainty, even if it is not customary for us to review decisions in courts, whether national or international. This leans in the direction that Swedish governments have long wanted to interpret the European Convention. It can also provide room for us to have the transparency and control of the entire Swedish school system that we are asking for. If a school finds itself in a conflict with parents about how the student's teaching should be conducted, the school must stand firm for the child's right to education. All schools in Sweden are responsible for breaking traditional gender patterns and perceptions of what boys and girls do and do not do. Decisions on teaching in Swedish schools should never be based on religious or other non-teaching considerations. Decisions should be based on what is best educational for each student to receive the instruction he or she needs and is entitled to. This also applies to the curriculum's writing on gender equality. Based on the evaluations that have been made on the subject of sport and health, I have decided that the National Board of Education will clarify the curriculum. Schools should not be able to regularly plan and implement gender-disaggregated education in schools over time. That is also why we – as I described in the interpellation response – have laws in Sweden that are very restrictive in terms of exemption from compulsory elements in teaching. But, for example, cannot be freed from the instruction needed to learn to swim 200 metres, as it is part of the knowledge requirements for the subject of sports and health in grades 6 to 9. Mr President, I would like to I think this is an important interpellation and an important discussion. It's good that it's taken up. However, there is a string in this where I would like to put a counter-question to the interpellier. Basically, it is about how the Swedish school system develops and how the school can stand strong for the values from which we build the school. The interpellant expressed himself as saying that there are examples of schools that corner themselves to please the parents. I think there are also examples where the school does not stand up strong enough against parents in various considerations made at the school based on educational grounds. One wonders if one can somehow meet the parents who ultimately means making decisions on grounds other than educational grounds. We will fight this. My question when it comes to having this problem is: Does Erik Andersson mean that this may be because we have got a school market where parents are sometimes considered more like a customer who is going to make a choice than a citizen who is going to be part of an education?
i-f415e0d498da1e91-399	Mr President, I would like to I also think it is good that we are discussing this issue. The answer to the question is no. The fact that we have free schools, I don't think, has contributed to the fact that schools have cornered themselves. On the contrary, I believe that free schools have ensured that Swedish students have been able to take advantage of increased knowledge. We do not know what it would have been like if we had only had municipal schools, but I think it is good to have free schools. It's good for the teachers– because it's good with several employers– it's good for the students and it's good for the parents. There may, of course, be examples of both municipal and independent schools where there has been an incorrect grant to not take part in teaching on grounds that are not educational. This may exist, and I find it boring. It is important that society stands up for what is to apply there. If you stand up for what is right and right and why the students should learn something, I think it will be easier for the parents to argue in their wider acquaintance and say: I can't do anything about it – this is how it works. We face various trials, and values are rocking. It is important that we ensure that everyone, both girls and boys, has equal opportunities to become just what they want. We cannot accept that several people will not receive full grades. I think this is an important issue. It is not a simple question, but it is therefore a good thing that it is being discussed. That is why I also find the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights interesting, because then the question arises: how far should school adapt to parents, based on the standards and values that we have in this country? We'll have to look at what the school inspectorate does and doesn't do. From what I could read, the Swedish School Inspectorate has given the go-ahead to having segregated sports lessons on the basis of gender, not pedagogy. I find that very strange. I understand if, for educational reasons, you want to divide a class into boys and girls, for example, but that cannot happen because of religion, for example. I think that's completely wrong. Therefore, it is good to review the rules and ensure that the school receives support. If ministers slip about what should apply, it is clear that it will be more difficult for principals and municipal politicians to stand firm. It is good if you are clear about what applies and say: in this country this is the case, and this is what we are going to do.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-407	Mr President, I would like to I have been very clear after the decision taken by the School Inspectorate. They considered that the laws and curricula currently in force allow for gender-disaggregated teaching on at least one whole subject. This does not seem to me to be in accordance with the curriculum we have, and I do not think it is in accordance with what we write in the curriculum – that traditional gender patterns should be counteracted. I think this is sending out completely the wrong signals. If you separate students in a whole subject, it signals that there are certain things that boys and girls cannot or should not do together. It should then be said from the quality review that if you look at this as a bigger problem, the school and the case that the Swedish School Inspectorate has decided on one of the more unusual examples. Usually it has been about having sex separation more of the routine, because that's how you have always worked. This should not be a basis for decisions taken in Swedish schools, but should be educational considerations. I have therefore commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to ensure clarification in the curriculum, which means that schools cannot regularly and over time plan and implement gender-disaggregated teaching. Mr President, I would like to To go back to one of the underlying questions of the interpellation, namely, whether the school adapts too much to the wishes of parents, that question is greater than just the example of swimming instruction, mentioned in the interpellation. I think that many principals and teachers can testify that it is at least as common, if not more, that they are contacted by parents who have opinions about when to give homework or how to judge a test or even what grade their children should receive. These purely educational decisions must be made at school. This is where I think it is important that we ask ourselves: How do we ensure that the school has the strength to take these discussions with parents and stand firm for educational considerations based on school law and curriculum? In this case, my problem with the school market is not about free schools. We can and should have specific discussions on which rules should apply there. I am convinced that in this case we have examples from both free schools with all sorts of different principals, municipal schools or other public schools that have been met by parents and ended up in a negotiating situation with them. It is more about when school goes from being a community institution that can tell parents and students what applies in some cases to becoming a market where you are a customer. As it is sometimes expressed, the customer is always right, and in a school you easily end up in a negotiating situation with the parents. I believe that we have important discussions to discuss in the future. How is the school election designed? When do you choose a school? How often do you choose a school? What are the discussions with the school? We will need to have these discussions, because it is a small building block in what can give the school the strength to be able to engage in discussions with students and parents, where it is sometimes a matter of actually establishing what applies.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-415	Mr President, I would like to The environmental party I knew was a party that protected small-scaleness and diversity. Now it almost feels as if the Green Party has drawn very far to the left and starts talking about customers. What exists is students, and we are going to make sure that these students can be equipped for the future. This is the great and important mission. Of course, parents are an extremely important part of raising children, but the school gives a certain value to the children. That is the case – this is not something we can hide from. That's what it's supposed to do. We want our children to be people who embrace democratic ideas and tolerance and respect democracy. We know how the school can indoctrinate in some dictatorships, and then it goes completely wrong. School is extremely important. I personally have experience in chairing a high school board. I know exactly what a delicate task it is, and have discussions with parents about various things. Then it is important that you stand up, that you know what is right and what is wrong and that you stand firm in the opinions and what the school wants to convey. I understand that the vast majority of people in our country and even the school are trying to solve things so that they are for the best, but somewhere there is a limit to how far you can go. Other students may suffer. We have the previous discussion about when you can go on vacation or not. Now you can't go on vacation, though a lot of people do it anyway. It is possible that the students who remain will suffer in teaching. But now the interpellation itself was about a judgment about swimming.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-420	Mr President, I would like to I do not think we need to describe this very discussion in terms of left and right, but this is about standing up for the knowledge mission. I read a document from the Moderates, describing their school position and stating that the school is not a market – at least not a market just any – but that the school is a social institution that is firmly on a foundation of values and on a mission expressed in the school law and curriculum. This is what should be kept in touch with parents and students. What I am trying to highlight in the discussion is how we give the school the best conditions to do this when you get into difficult discussions with parents. When we take this discussion, we will also have to discuss what regulations we have for parents' influence in discussions and how free schools and school elections work. Having said that, I believe in and defend both the existence of free schools and the possibility of choosing a school. But you can always see whether these rules give the best strength for principals and teachers to take their assignments toward students and parents in the right way. Once again, I will be very clear about the question raised in the interpellation: In discussions with parents, the headmaster, teacher and school will stand for the child's right to education. Decisions on teaching should be based on pedagogical considerations. There are very restrictive rules for exemption from compulsory education. A student cannot be released in such a way that he or she does not meet the knowledge requirements. The knowledge requirements for sport and health also include being able to swim 200 metres.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-424	Mr President, I would like to Maria Stockhaus has asked me whether I intend to present a proposal with a proposal for a digital strategy for Swedish schools and, if so, when. As Maria Stockhaus describes, in spring 2016, the National Board of Education submitted proposals for national IT strategies for the school system on behalf of the Government. I would like to make it clear once again that the government intends to decide on a comprehensive national IT strategy for the school system. The strategy will as planned be established by government decisions. As part of the said assignment, the Swedish National Agency for Education has provided documentation for changes in the governance documents in the form of curricula, degree goals and subject plans. The Government has decided on 9 March on this basis on changes to these policy documents concerning education and education from primary school to municipal adult education in order to clarify the mission of the school system to help all pupils, young people and adults, develop their digital skills. Based on the strategy, the Swedish National Agency for Education will work with skills development and support measures aimed at schools and principals regarding digital learning resources and tools to strengthen digital competence in the teaching situation as well as for a more efficient administration. As I previously answered questions from Maria Stockhaus about the government's work regarding digital tools in Swedish schools, the government commissioned the Swedish Agency for Education in summer 2015 to develop and implement national school development programmes. The Authority currently offers support for teachers in critical use of the network, to lead and learn in technology-tight classrooms and digital storytelling. The Swedish National Agency for Education also works within the framework of the mission to provide additional support for teachers, school leaders and other staff in the school. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education in 2017 to promote digitalisation within the school system, based on the reports provided by the agency on national IT strategies, and to facilitate the use of digitalization opportunities in education and administration. The Government's future strategy aims to meet and exploit the potential of digitalisation, promote school development in general and promote the development of teaching. It will help to strengthen the conditions for a high and equivalent quality education that provides all children and all pupils, young and adult, with the digital skills needed in an increasingly technologically oriented working and social life.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-428	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. Digitalisation offers great opportunities for school but also a lot of challenges. My experience has meant that I have great respect for the complexity of the school's digitalisation and requires many different efforts. Among other things, the Alliance government introduced graduation goals in the new teacher training, and in the reply of the Minister of Education he highlighted the decision taken on Thursday on changes in curricula and curricula. It was welcome and an important step, but more is needed. The changes that have been made to the regulation letter and that more clearly instruct the Swedish National Agency for Education to support digital development are also welcome, but the whole and many parts are still missing. In January, I attended the Bett fair in London. There are about 5,000 Swedes every year to look at the latest in digital technology and content for the school. The question I received quite a lot of times and which many there discussed was: when will the national IT strategy for school come? Many municipalities await the strategy and wait with their own measures because they believe and hope that the strategy will somehow lead the way and solve many of the questions they face. Mr President, I would like to The path the government has now chosen, i.e. to first take decisions on different parts without having the overall strategy clear, feels a little like when Alice in Alice in Wonderland meets the Cheshire Cat and asks which way she should choose. The cat asks where she's going, and Alice answers: I don't know. The cat says: "Then it doesn't matter which path you choose. After all, the proposed strategy provides guidance on where we are going, and it will then be clearer which way to go and what measures are needed. Important pieces are missing at present, such as questions about digital content. Among other things, Denmark has a rather interesting model. The most important part is about teachers' skills in digital tools, and the Swedish National Agency for Education's survey shows that there are quite a few teachers who lack the right basic knowledge of how digital technology is used. You can ask yourself whether in 2017 you might expect people to be able to learn how to use an email program themselves. This also applies to teacher training. There are degree goals, but my picture after visiting higher education institutions and talking to teacher students is that one can hardly say that today we have a teacher education that prepares the students for a digital environment. In fact, the most fundamental issue is infrastructure, because without it nothing can be done. Without it you cannot use the possibilities technology offers, and on that front it looks very different. We can talk about digital equivalence, but it does not exist today; some schools have come very far while others have barely got out of the starting blocks. The proposed strategy submitted by the Swedish National Agency for Education sets out an objective of equal access and use. These are important objectives that send out clear signals, but they are not yet defined because there is no overall strategy. Although the strategy will now come not in the form of a bill but in the form of a government decision, the question remains in fact in the interpellation. When will the decision on a digital strategy be taken?
i-f415e0d498da1e91-438	Mr President, I would like to We all read different things at night. Maria Stockhaus reads Alice in Wonderland, which is an amazing book, and I myself often read chamber records. I can therefore tell you that throughout the last parliamentary term, the then opposition, of which I was a part, chased the then government – which Maria Stockhaus's party was part of the basis – because it did not develop an IT strategy for the Swedish school. Maria has now taken over the role of chasing the government, but there is a very crucial difference: the then government never made a decision to develop an IT strategy, but we do. So the crucial difference between what happened in the last parliamentary term and what is happening in this parliamentary term is that the opposition is demanding an IT strategy but that we are actually implementing one. I think it is a good thing that Maria is constantly highlighting these issues so that it becomes clear in what order we make decisions. However, I take rather lightly the criticism of the order in which we take decisions, because I am quite convinced that we had received criticism regardless of whether we had waited for the whole IT strategy before we took any decision or whether we are doing as we are now, that is, taking the decisions that are possible on the road to the IT strategy. What does it look like? Well, the first decision we made was to commission the Swedish National Agency for Education to develop an IT strategy, anchored in research. That mission was an early decision we made in the government – one of the first. The second decision we made was to have the Swedish National Agency for Education develop long-term national school development programmes that can provide teachers, principals and other school staff – including principals – with support in the competence development work. This is something that responds to several goals but is not least important for implementing the necessary digitizations within the school. The third decision is the permanent task in the regulation letter to the Swedish National Agency for Education to support the digitisation of the school. The fourth decision, which we took on 9 March and which we saw had to be taken as soon as it was ready, is the change in curricula. The reason why it is important to make this decision now rather than wait until the whole IT strategy is in place is that we should give principals an opportunity to prepare to implement it. Implementation will take place during the next academic year. In the following academic years the requirement is sharp; this should then be part of the teaching in the course and subject plans concerned, and the curriculum should be fully applicable in all schools. The decision on the IT strategy as a whole will be taken in the spring. Maria Stockhaus highlights three specific issues in her speech. First of all, we have the supply of skills, and yes, I agree – in order for it to really become a reality of what is now in curricula and subject plans and for there to be the opportunity to implement it, there also needs to be time for competence development for teachers. That is why we are building up the national school development programmes. They already contain three parts about digitalisation and will contain more, so that the new syllabuses can be implemented at the main level. The second issue is infrastructure, and yes, an IT strategy should set targets for an equivalent asset in order to achieve an equivalent use of digital tools. However, it is important to stress that the Swedish National Agency for Education concluded – and I share it – that the state should not pay for the infrastructure. What happens then, as we have seen in other countries, is that it does not make the necessary and continuous updating of the infrastructure of the principals, but instead waits for the next round of state aid and state updates. This brings us to my third and most important point: the strategy is important for creating national equivalence, but it does not do the job. It is important that all principals are now involved in carrying out the necessary digitization of the school. The strategy lays the foundation for that job, but the job is done out in the schools, with the principals.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-449	Mr President, I would like to Since you pushed on very hard when you were in opposition, one might think that faster action would have been welcome once you came to power. More than half the term of office has now passed. You have been sitting for a year with a draft strategy from the Swedish National Agency for Education, which has not yet been decided on. I share the view that the main responsibility for infrastructure lies with the principals – this is somehow given with the responsibility for updates and other things. To do a large procurement at national level for this type of infrastructure could, I think, fail in very many different ways. However, it is still the case that the principals are waiting for the strategy. Because you do not know what the strategy looks like and what requirements it will impose on the principals in terms of infrastructure and other things, you do nothing. Some municipalities feel that they do not know what to do, and therefore they believe that the strategy will solve it. To be honest, I do not expect this from the strategy, but I expect a clear indication to the municipalities of what they are expected to do. It is always possible to say that the representatives did not do enough, but a large part of the term of office has passed, and we still do not have a strategy in place. The Swedish National Agency for Education and Training – and also the changes in the steering documents – requires a good infrastructure. Without computers and tablets, it is not possible to move forward. Should the principals be given a year without having established this with equal access in a strategy? I think there is a conflict in this with the infrastructure and the changes in the governance document. The whole thing doesn't make sense when you don't take them in the right order. I hope that this strategy will come soon. I see, as I said, that there are many principals sitting and waiting, and I do not think it is fair to the students that it is so unequal when it comes to the use of digital aids in the classroom. It is an important area of responsibility that teachers have. I think that question is extremely important. I asked Minister Hellmark Knutsson a question about digital competence and teacher training, and her answer is that they wait for the great evaluation of teacher education that is under way. I may think that on this particular issue, where it is clear that one cannot meet the degree goals that exist, one needs to act earlier to ensure that teachers have the skills that they need. I know from my own experience that there are quite a few pitfalls that principals can fall into when it comes to getting to a digital infrastructure in schools. Therefore, support on how to do it would be welcome. There are quite a few municipalities that have gone ahead, from which one could learn about what not to do. You could develop support for the municipalities – I think this would be very important, not least for smaller municipalities. It would be good to help them by making sure that they know in what order to do things. How do you be a good client when it comes to IT infrastructure? It's not always out in the municipalities.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-460	Mr President, I would like to Let me make one thing clear: on this issue, I am not making general criticism of my predecessor for not doing enough. My criticism is sharper than that – my predecessor did not want to digitise the Swedish school. He and the then government actively turned away from making decisions and actively argued against having an IT strategy for the Swedish school. I want the school to be part of digitalisation – not because it sounds nice, but because the school's most important task is to prepare each child for the adult life you go into. This applies both to the working life to be met and to the democracy in which one should be able to be an active citizen. In both cases it is crucial to have digital skills. It is crucial to form an opinion, to be able to express one's opinion and to be able to function in the labour market. When the school does not act equally, it does not bridge gaps, but instead widens them, as Maria Stockhaus says. This has also been the case because of the lack of a national policy. Therefore, one of our first decisions was to ask the Swedish National Agency for Education to develop an IT strategy for the Swedish school. We have then followed up with the national school development programmes, the governance of the Swedish National Agency for Education through the regulatory letters and now the curriculum decisions. In spring, we will decide on the overall IT strategy. The state's part in this is about two things. The first is steering. School governance and the content of teaching are done through curricula, curricula and – for upper secondary school – subject plans. These are exactly the ones we decided on last week. This is the government's control of what education should contain. It is also this that ensures that the principals must build up the skills and have the infrastructure necessary to meet the task. The second thing that the state is going to do is about support, as Maria Stockhaus calls for. One of the two main support measures we are giving is the IT strategy that we are going to take as such. It lays a foundation and shows what we believe is crucial for the school system as a whole to meet the new requirements of curricula and curricula. Such an IT strategy concerns, for example, objectives of equal access to technology. This support is provided both by presenting it and by the other authorities. Maria Stockhaus mentioned procurement as an example. In this area, we are building up specific state aid to be able to support principals in procurement through the Procurement Authority. It also happens between principals. SKL has a very important role in spreading good examples, as not least Maria Stockhaus knows, and comes in some ways to do this better than the state can ever do, precisely because one acts between principals. The second important part of our support is to ensure that there is access to good training. National school development programmes are the infrastructure for this. There should be state access to continuing education if, for example, Hässleholm has difficulty in providing all teachers with the training needed to meet the new requirements of curricula and curricula. As principal, they are then responsible for giving teachers, and also principals, time to take part in this training. However, the training itself must be available to the State, within the framework of the national school development programme. The central government's main support is therefore the IT strategy as such and the continuing training under the national school development programme.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-470	Mr President, I would like to As far as the need for a strategy is concerned, I believe that there are no longer any political contradictions. School must get on the track properly if we want to safeguard equivalence in the future and not create a digital divide in society. It is not just about digital skills and what is in curricula and curricula. It is also about all the opportunities available for new tools in terms of individualisation, documentation and – not least – support for children in need of special support. I personally think it is on the verge of criminality that we have not had legislation that all children with dyslexia should have their own computer, with all the means available. The school is a joint responsibility for state and principals. It is desirable to have clear targets for where we are going – it will be easier for the heads to know how to act. The school commission proposed objectives in terms of knowledge results that I think were very good. I think it is a bit of a pity that they have not received more attention and become more entrenched, because this is also a clear message to the principals about what they have to focus on. I hope that a digital strategy for schools will indeed contain clear objectives, particularly as regards the use and content of digital technologies. Control documents and assignments to the Swedish National Agency for Education and Training are absolutely two important steps in the right direction. However, it is, as I said, almost a year since the National Agency for Education presented its proposal for a digital strategy for the school. This strategy is important, as the Government itself has pointed out several times. The big question is still when. And what's the catch? What takes so long to make all these other decisions?
i-f415e0d498da1e91-476	Mr President, I would like to Since the National Agency for Education presented its proposal, which I ordered, the government has made two decisions. One is about the governance of the Swedish National Agency for Education, and the other is about changes in curricula, curricula and subject plans. We deliberately prioritised bringing these changes forward as quickly as possible, as these changes are the guiding signal out to the school system. The IT strategy is the support for achieving the content that curricula, curricula and – for upper secondary school – subject plans will require, with the government's decision. We will take a decision on this this spring. The National Agency for Education has also done several things since the strategy was established. It is not that nothing has happened since the strategy was left to the government. The government has made two decisions, and the National Agency for Education has been able to continue working. As I mentioned in my interpellation response, the national school development programmes already today – before we have taken a decision on the IT strategy as a whole – offer support in digital narrative, to lead and learn in technology-tight classrooms, as well as critical use of the network. These three elements are obviously part of an IT strategy. We are working on the basis of the timetable that we laid down when we in the government were able to try to implement what we had promised, namely a comprehensive digitisation of the Swedish school.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-481	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me. If I intend to take any action in response to SVT's efforts to establish itself on social media platforms, and if I am prepared to review the broadcasting style on this occasion, If I intend to promote changes in funding conditions to ensure that public service broadcasters' funds are not used to compete with other media on online platforms, and if I intend to take measures to ensure that the diversity of news sources is preserved If I intend to review SVT's broadcasting licence due to their increased use of media forms other than television to disseminate news What measures I intend to take in view of SVT's presence at Faceboo k whether I intend to introduce a separate regulatory framework for the affairs of public service broadcasters with online services or review the current regulatory framework. As the questions asked concern the activities of public service broadcasters on digital platforms and the cooperation of companies with different social media, I have chosen to answer them in a context. I would like to begin by emphasising that public broadcasting is conducted independently of the state as well as other spheres of economic and political power in society. The public service companies Sve riges Radio(SR), Sveriges Television(SVT) and Sveriges utbildningsradio(UR) are independent limited liability companies. Their activities are governed at an overall level by multi-annual broadcasting permits decided by the Riksdag and by annual funding conditions decided by the Government. The current authorisation period runs until 2019. The task of assessing ex post whether SVT has fulfilled its mandate lies with the Radio and Television Audit Board of the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Authority. This cannot and should not be interfered with by the government or the Ministry of Culture. Public service activities at SR, SVT and UR are funded by the public and will reach out to everyone throughout the country. The proposal on the basis of which the broadcasting licences are currently in force states that it is for broadcasters themselves to assess where the programme offer is to be made available. It also stresses the need for companies to have an open approach to new opportunities to make supply available. This is also confirmed in the terms of the grant, which states that it is necessary to make the core business available on different platforms in order to reach the viewers and the listeners respectively. In September 2015, the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Agency presented a special review of the impact of the activities of the public service broadcasters on the media market. In the review, the Authority notes that the public service broadcasters do not act in a way that clearly prevents competing operators from establishing, operating and developing their activities. It is also noted that the biggest impact on the media market lies in ongoing digitalisation and globalisation. In a new media landscape where different types of media merge, and where, for example, the difference between a television channel and a newspaper is becoming smaller, new questions and challenges arise, including in terms of the conditions for public service. How public services are to be regulated in a digital world will be a central issue for the parliamentary public service committee that has just been set up. Work will begin on investigating the financing of public service broadcasting, but the government has already announced that the Committee will receive additional directives to examine the future conditions for public service. I am convinced that these issues will be widely debated in the Committee, and I hope that they will make proposals in broad political agreement.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-493	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for his reply. Now it is a bit compressed because we have a debate about five interpellations. That means we won't be able to talk about them all. I think that's a bit of a pity. Let me start by saying the obvious thing about this, and that is that public service is an important part of the Swedish media landscape. My view is that this should continue to be the case in the future. I also have no comment on the fact that the Minister wants new conditions to be developed in broad political agreement. I think it is wise that this is the way it is. Countries with strong public services are good countries, because they have a higher turnout and influence the other media in a positive direction. So that there is no misunderstanding, Mr President, I would like to say that I am in favour of a strong public service. But that does not mean that I will not have the aim of public service and its activities. I think that is a reasonable and an obligation, not least because the licence is a parafiscal procedure, which brings EUR 8 billion each year to the business. That's a lot of money. The licence is today designed as a unit tax, you might say. We have political decisions that govern the business. That is why we should also have a debate on it. Let me tell you why this is important. We had greatly simplified a situation before, where television and radio were funded with license money. The news journalism there was funded with license money, and there was no requirement to collect any revenue or the like. It stands in stark contrast to the way the newspapers work. Local and national newspapers have lived on subscription revenues, revenue from sales of newspapers and, to some extent, advertising, of course, and also on pre-support. In this way, the business has looked like. Now something has happened, and that is why we are having this debate. We have had a development where more news journalism is consumed on other platforms, i.e. that you read their news online. This challenges the old model. Then it simply does not work that some take in money from citizens in a parafiscal way and thus can publish news for free, while newspapers are expected to have an increasing share of their profits on the new platform on the Internet. These products are therefore similar. I usually try to break it down h is very simple and say that it will be very difficult for Norrmejerier, Arla or who it is who delivers the milk – it depends on where you are in Sweden – if the state or government decides to buy the milk from Denmark instead, puts it in the same shelves in the same shops and offers it free of charge. Then we will not have any Swedish dairy farmers, and we will not have Swedish dairy production. In the same way, it will be with the newspapers if they are outcompeted by someone who can do this for free. My question to the Minister is what her opinion is about the developments that are taking place at the moment. There's pressure on the newsrooms around the country.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-502	Mr President, I would like to I can confirm the image given by Member of Parliament Riedl. It is a greatly changed media landscape in which we live, which puts things at the forefront and brings with it many challenges. I therefore welcome debates and discussions on how we maintain our democracy and create good conditions for investigative journalism. At the same time, I note that the previous government stated in the bill on which the current broadcasting licence is based that the public service broadcasters should themselves assess where the programme offer should be made available. It is also reflected in the terms of the appropriations, which show that the companies' core activities are to be made available on different platforms. But the challenges are so great that we cannot sedentaryly watch when the changes take place. That is why media policy in general and public services have been the subject of discussion. I've welcomed it in all the different rooms and shapes. I've been acting, too. I have changed the pre-support so that it better fits today's conditions. I have set up a media inquiry, which relatively recently submitted its report. I have reduced advertising taxes, and I have announced a reduction in digital VAT. I have done all this so that the free press, which needs good conditions, can also contribute to our democratic society. As far as public services and public service broadcasters are concerned, the most important thing for me is to safeguard their independence. Therefore, I do not intend to go in and direct their activities in detail in the middle of current broadcasting permits. Nor do I intend to express strong views and thoughts on how the future broadcasting licence should be designed. On the contrary, I am extremely concerned about what Mr Riedl also emphasised: that we are working out these conditions in a parliamentary spirit and have a common view of the importance of a strong and independent public service.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-507	Mr President, I would like to The reduction in advertising tax, which the Minister mentioned, is a good thing. This change is absolutely necessary when you are about to start earning on the internet as well. Pre-aid changes and other things are also welcome. However, this does not change the fact that we have two products on the shelf which will ultimately be almost identical but where one is financed by a parafiscal procedure and is sold free of charge to the consumer, while the other has to withdraw money in order to pay news journalists. Mr President, I would like to I believe that I and the Minister share the view that we need many journalists and many newsrooms. The problem with the development we see is that we are risking this very thing and that there are fewer journalists, fewer news desks and less in-depth and reviewing journalism. It is a negative development that at least I do not want to see, because the essence of democracy is that this interaction works. I agree with the Minister that, of course, we should not steer this activity politically. I hope I did not give the impression that I want the Minister to do so. However, many live in the belief that the public service broadcasters are completely independent of politics, but that is not really true. What we do, however, we will try to do in broad agreement, otherwise we will undermine confidence in the business. However, with terms of grant, broadcasting permits and many other things, we still control the business, at least what to do and what framework to stay within. Mr President, I would like to My point is that the terms of the grant state that if a public service company makes a major change within the core business, it should be reported to the government for approval. The government and the Minister therefore have a responsibility in this case, and that is why I am asking these questions. Of course, we do not have time for a full debate. But I ask the questions on the basis that the government has a responsibility: If a public service company makes major changes, it should be reported to the government. Newspaper publishers and their co-organisation have sounded the alarm that it will be quick. If you make everything available on the same platform, it will put pressure on the newspapers. They will find it difficult to gain access to the new market, i.e. online services, while at the same time losing subscribers to the news magazines. At the end of the day, we will have fewer journalists and fewer newsrooms, and that is a bad development. It is against this background that I ask my questions. The minister said she didn't think it was a good development. But if the public service broadcasters have almost the same products online as the newspapers, do they stay within the limits of the broadcasting licence and within the limits of the terms of the grant? Does the minister think so? The Minister is responsible for this, and the public service companies will report to the government if they do anything. Mr President, I would like to The Alliance government said that it would make available the range of programmes that were broadcast on television or radio on the Internet. But this has long since left the public service companies and now has an offensive, completely different model as they approach the internet.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-515	Mr President, I would like to Fortunately, we have a clear order for how we deal with the public service companies. It is a system on which we have taken a joint decision and which I uphold. In this system there are also control stations and an authority, the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Agency, which also has follow-up activities and checks that the public service companies comply with the regulations that are set up. The current broadcasting licence runs from 2014 to 2019. So it was worked out under the previous government. The next period begins in 2020. The task of assessing ex post how the public service broadcasters have fulfilled their mission is carried out by the Audit Board, which is under the authority of the Authority for Press, Radio and Television. I will not interfere with this, but we have a special authority to carry out this activity. We have also recently set up, in the special order from which we work, a committee to develop proposals for a new financing model for public services. It includes two party partners of Edward Riedl : Jan Ericson and Olof Lavesson. Our intention is for this committee to have an additional directive to examine how more effective regulation of public service broadcasting can be designed. Issues of the nature we are discussing will most likely be discussed within the framework of the Committee's mandate. A few weeks ago, the important mid-term review was carried out. In the run-up to this meeting, I also received input from the public service companies. On 21 March, I will come to the Committee on Culture to present these contributions. I will then tell you about the public service companies' response to what has been highlighted, not least by the authorities. In a report 2015, the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Agency stated that the companies do not engage in activities that unduly affect the ability of commercial companies to compete. There are also similar studies in Norway, for example, that point in the same direction as regards the relationship between the public service broadcasters and the free media.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-521	Mr President, I would like to There is much to say in this debate. Let us note, however, that if the ambition is that we want many journalists and many independent newsrooms, we must find a model that does not compete on the same platforms but where one has to make money while the other can provide the same services for free, because it is financed by a unit-tax-like licence fee. We need to find solutions for this, because one cannot be expected to compete with someone who offers the same thing for free. You can have so many examples, but I think it is clear to everyone that it is impossible. If we do nothing, we get fewer journalists, fewer newsrooms, less scrutiny of power and less of qualitative journalism. It would be infinitely unfortunate for a country like Sweden where democracy is functioning and important. What I would like to say, Mr President, is that I have looked at the report to which the Minister refers. After all, she deals with the various parts of this. The Press, Radio and Television Agency looked at assignments from the government over this activity. They saw a lot of problems. And, not least, the EU points out that there are likely to be some concerns, and they have to deal with them. The Authority makes suggestions on how to handle it, and not least online services. Time is running out, but I would still like the Minister to take this along with him. I do not think I am getting any clearer answers today. This, however, is a problem that can escalate rather quickly and lead to pressure on newspaper editors that makes journalists fewer.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-525	Mr President, I would like to I certainly bring Edward Riedl's clear input and commitment. This suggests that the Moderates have a broad commitment to the independence of public services, which I have also received clear signals from not least the Culture Committee and the Constitutional Committee. This is a crucial issue. We have a common view of what to do with public service and on safeguarding its independence, but we also see the importance of having a system of media pluralism, free press, which highlights reality from right to left and from different perspectives throughout our country. The image that Edward Riedl confirms is obvious. Today there are white spots in the media landscape. There are people locally around our country who do not get their reality described and where politicians, such as Member of Parliament Riedl and I, are not being audited. This is extremely serious, because it also creates room for other forces, perhaps even anti-democratic forces, to take their place and begin to describe reality. I'll take the tapes with me. I'm happy about the engagement. I would like to thank you for the debate.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-528	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me what measures I intend to take, on the one hand, to ensure that public services remain nationwide, and, on the other hand, to ensure that public service providers work actively to counter further centralisation in the major cities and to ensure that the whole of Sweden is monitored. Access to a variety of independent journalists, who monitor democracy and review power, is crucial in a democratic society. How we secure public access to good journalism in the future, regardless of where in Sweden you live, is perhaps the most important media policy issue right now. It is also an issue that has been highlighted in detail in Anette Novak's investigation A cross-border media policy (SOU 2016:80) that is being consulted until 20 March 2017. The public service companies, Sveriges Radio(SR), Sveriges Television(SVT) and Sveriges Utbildningsradio(UR), have a great responsibility to monitor and portray the whole country. According to the broadcasting permits for Swedish Radio and Swedish Television, the companies' range of programmes is to reflect conditions throughout the country. In addition, the grant conditions require at least 55 per cent of the general production in each company to take place outside Stockholm. It also calls for a decentralised organisation that creates good conditions for independent decision-making at regional and local level. However, I would like to emphasise that public broadcasting is conducted independently of the state as well as other spheres of economic and political power in society. The public service companies are independent limited liability companies. Their activities are governed at an overall level by multi-annual broadcasting permits decided by the Riksdag and by annual funding conditions decided by the Government. The current authorisation period runs until 2019. The task of assessing ex post whether SVT has fulfilled its mandate lies with the Radio and Television Audit Board of the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Authority. The Board shall, on the basis of the accounts of the public service broadcasters, assess annually ex post whether the companies have fulfilled their mandates. The Board's assessment is presented to the Riksdag in the budget bill. The independence of public services is crucial to the credibility of companies and thus to their confidence in the public. I cannot and should not therefore comment on their organisational or publicist decisions. How public service responsibilities will be regulated for the next broadcasting permit, starting in 2020, will be a matter for the parliamentary committee recently set up to investigate the conditions for public service for the next permit period.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-535	Mr President, I would like to The lock is well known, and I am sure you can have many different views on this. For those living in Stockholm, Slussen is a very important infrastructure issue. And I have all respect for that, even though I come from Umeå and am very little touched by what is happening around Slussen. You can follow the constructions at Slussen very closely in the national media. Today, through one of the national newspapers, I noted a news item in this case concerning a social democrat, but it might as well have been a moderate or environmental party. This person was hung out because of many and expensive trips. The Socialist Member of Parliament tried to explain to the national press that Parliament works so that Members come from different parts of the country and that everyone has to go down to Stockholm to fulfil their mission. The member goes by taxi to the airport and then flies down to Stockholm. I think the news value of this is very low. But you can do news on this if you want, and if you have a big city perspective, it is of course very interesting to travel for hundreds of thousands of crowns. This is in order for Parliament, with Members from all over the country, to function. Why am I bringing this up? Well, we have a trend in which more than 20 percent of the population today no longer have any confidence in the traditional media companies. You simply don't believe in what you read or what you follow on TV and radio. At the same time, 40 per cent of the country's journalists' corps live in the inner city of Stockholm, Mr President. And in the small district of Södermalm, 7 percent of the country's journalists live. It's no coincidence that we're allowed to read about Slussen, who is their closest neighbour. Rather, it is quite natural, because journalists are affected by this. 40% of journalists thus live in central Stockholm. If we look at the metropolitan areas, we see that there is an amazing majority of journalists living there. This, of course, affects what news they find interesting. Against this background, Mr President, I have made my interpellation. I see a clear concentration of the media that makes people distance themselves and there are cracks in the country. Public service is the part of the journalistic that we can influence through broadcasting permits and other things. That way, we can make sure the rift doesn't get so big in the country. Against this background, one might also ask the question: Can the Minister have an opinion? Yes, I think the Minister can. This is particularly true when it comes to how much of the journalists should be in the metropolitan areas and in Stockholm in particular. We have an infinite amount of media concentration in Stockholm. We can influence this with the tools at our disposal. It is really about this, Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister a question. I know how it works and in what order we are going to take this, but what is the Minister's opinion? How much of the public service employees can live in the Stockholm area? What's fair? How much should live in other parts of the country? I understand if the Minister does not bring all the facts to the debate. But does the Minister know how many public service employees live in Stockholm in relation to the rest of the country?
i-f415e0d498da1e91-544	Mr President, I would like to I thank Edward Riedl once again for his commitment to media and democracy issues. I am particularly pleased to hear a classic full-blown moderate talking about the importance of different perspectives and the effect it can have on the result of the work you do depending on where you come from and what experiences you carry with you. It is something that I hope Edward Riedl will also discuss a lot in his party and with many other Members of Parliament. Of course, our perspective and experience become values that become knowledge and can produce results and have more or less impact on what we do. Journalism and media scrutiny, as I said a moment ago in another interpellation debate, are democratic factors. We need to ensure that people, not least all those described by Edward Riedl, who have lost faith in the media, in society at large and in many other institutions, have their reality described and can feel belonging. We need to create feelings of context. There, public service is an amazing tool. This is also one of the challenges that have increased in the run-up to the new broadcasting licence, which is due to take effect by 2020. It is not only the media landscape that has changed radically in just a decade, but also the polarisation of our society. This will be an even more pressing topic in the discussions that I expect the Committee to hold. My view is that one should emphasise the importance of bringing these perspectives into the new broadcasting licence. These will be expedient tasks for the members of the Committee. Responses are to be worked out and then anchored in all our parties, which will take a joint decision on the upcoming public service broadcasting permit.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-547	Mr President, I would like to I tried to describe this gap in my previous post. As I said, I don't have full facts on my feet, and I guess sometimes you have to say that you don't. However, I believe that at least part of the gap that is emerging is precisely because you do not feel that you are getting your reality described, which the Minister himself is dealing with. I think this is simply because the journalist corps lives centrally in Storstockholm and is in big cities. This makes it very difficult to describe other people's perspectives. Most of the population actually lives outside Stockholm. You may sometimes have to remind a lot of people in our country of that. Whether it's about media concentration or something else, there's a huge excess in Stockholm. Then it becomes easy so that you think it gives the whole perspective. As I said, I also believe that it is a partial explanation of the loss of narration in the country in the description of reality. Public service – and that is really what my interpellation is about in this regard – can help to bridge this gap. But then it does not work that a majority of public service employees live and work in Storstockholm. The distribution must be different, Mr President, if you are to describe the country in that way. I understand that the Minister cannot precede a lot of different things and have views on exactly what she wants. There are things you have to conform to. Nevertheless, I interpret the Minister, Mr President, as agreeing with me that public services should be involved in closing this gap or at least reducing it. Then my questions to the Minister will be: What does she think is a reasonable distribution? How many public service employees should be employed in Stockholm, and how many should be employed in other parts of the country? In the end, this is exactly what it boils down to. Where do these employees live? It will determine their perspective. I think, Mr President, that the Minister may at least have some idea of that. What should the reasonable distribution look like? Overall, as I said in my first speech, 40 percent of the country's active journalists live in the inner city of Stockholm. So it is not even Storstockholm that is at issue, Mr President, but Stockholm's inner city. And in the small district of Södermalm, 7 percent of all the country's journalists live. When they are going to get from Söder to Stockholm center, it is no coincidence that they will pass Slussen, which thus becomes a national matter in all media. That's because it's their reality. But there is a great reality beyond Slussen, beyond Södermalm and beyond Stockholm's inner city. Then those journalists can't be employed there. Mr President, I would like to I want more journalists employed in other parts of the country. Then the idea is: does the Minister think that is the direction this should take?
i-f415e0d498da1e91-552	Mr President, I would like to I would like to emphasise once again what Edward Riedl and I have said: it is important that SR's and SVT's range of programmes reflect conditions throughout our country. That is precisely why it is important for publishers and journalists to balance what is new and how to describe that news. It is extremely reasonable that we have a special order for these discussions. I understand that many believe that these are urgent issues. That's why we're taking them. I welcome whether they are discussed in all different forms and in all different rooms, not least here in the Swedish Parliament. But we have a clear order. We have in the public service companies a business that is governed by the broadcasting permits. We have a review board that is responsible for monitoring and ensures that you live up to what the conditions describe when it comes to percentages, numbers, how you operate and where you should be. It is therefore also more than reasonable that I, as a minister, should not interfere in the current agreement process. As a partial answer, I can say that it continues to be more than reasonable – it is even expressed, and it will hopefully continue to be a fundamental task – to work for democratic society so that people will recognise their realities and so that what we describe and what is being examined and shown will become urgent for many more than today. I would like to think that in future public service will have even greater tasks than today. That is why the Committee's work will be delicate, as the challenges and realities have changed. It will be very exciting to follow the work. I hope that Edward Riedl will get involved and discuss these issues with his party colleagues on the committee.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-556	Mr President, I would like to In my part of the country, Norrland, most people live along the coast in medium - size cities with somewhere between 60 000 and 125 000 inhabitants. Umeå is the largest city, with almost 125 000 inhabitants, while Skellefteå, for example, has down 60 000. We have a string of cities from Luleå in the north down to Sundsvall. It's a big part of reality. When public services and others are to reflect different parts of the country in news broadcasts, images of the different parts of the country are reproduced to a very large extent. I've been talking to journalists. It's easy to make sure you get a bear, a wolf or something like that, something a little exotic and exciting. This is the danger when you get a concentration of media in a big city. Mr President, I would like to I believe that one of the problems that the United States encountered in connection with Trump's election was that people experienced that there was a media and political elite in one place and that this elite could not identify with them and understand their conditions. We risk going exactly the same way if we do not get to grips with this. I'm happy anyway. I'm trying to interpret the minister between the lines, because there seems to be some that she doesn't want to say but still wants to find out. I take the Minister's view that we should somehow face up to this challenge. Mr President, I would like to There's only one way. It is to ensure that a smaller proportion of public service employees are employed in Stockholm and that a larger part are employed in other parts of the country. That is how we can broaden this. It is important to make sure that the news desks in Umeå and elsewhere become larger and that it in Stockholm becomes slightly smaller.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-560	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to emphasise that my picture of what public service is delivering is not that the content is filled with nid images. On the contrary, I really want to join in the great chorus that celebrates the consistently high journalistic integrity of public services and its work, carried out in accordance with good publicist practice. I really share the view that we are facing enormous challenges when it comes to keeping our country together. Sweden has changed. We have great, not to say enormous, forces ahead of us that need to be taken. We need to review all the tools we have to ensure that people feel that they belong to, that they recognise themselves and that they get their reality described. There will be major tasks for the committee and for all of us here in the Swedish parliament and in the government quarter to ensure that we have the best public service companies in the world.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-563	Mr President, I would like to Isabella Hökmark has asked me whether I believe that the allocation of additional funding to cultural schools has produced the intended effect and how I intend to monitor how the additional funds are spent on reducing cultural school fees. When the government went in last year with support for the municipal school of culture, it was a historic decision. The cultural school has been around for a long time and has survived many changes in our society. It is easy to be impressed by testimony to what the cultural school has meant to many of our successful artists, but even more so are the stories about how the cultural school was and is a place for children and young people to develop and discover something new, and a field to express themselves within. There are so many people who have a relationship with culture school. The government believes that culture school is an inalienable part of the construction of society. The activities of the municipal cultural school are important for many children and young people. However, the cultural school faces challenges such as accessibility and teacher provision. The government's investigation into a national strategy for the municipal cultural school, the report of which has now been referred, is not only a knowledge base but also makes several suggestions in various areas. The government will now weigh these together with the referees and will then come back to the matter. The Government has decided on a regulation according to which municipalities can apply for funds on the basis of the needs that exist, for example in order to reduce the fees, if quality-enhancing measures have been taken, or to apply for funds to maintain a low fee, or no fee at all, when quality-enhancing measures have been taken. The state funds that Isabella Hökmark is asking about have been allocated by the National Council for Culture in accordance with this regulation. It is true that relatively few municipalities have applied for funds to reduce the student fee only. Instead, many municipalities have applied for funding for important development of the cultural school's activities, such as reaching new target groups, broadening the range or expanding existing activities, while maintaining the low student fee. The large search pressure in both the number of applications and the funds applied for shows that this is an area with great needs, but also that the municipalities see great development opportunities in the cultural school and want to invest in it. Each municipality, however, knows its own conditions and is best placed to decide for itself how the investments should be implemented. I feel very confident that the money that has now been allocated to the municipal cultural school will be used in accordance with the intentions of the Riksdag and the Government. The reports from municipalities will be submitted in November. The Swedish Arts Council will then report the use of the grant to the Government.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-570	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Culture and I have different views on whether to poke in municipal activities. For me, the Culture and Music School is a municipal activity and a leisure activity among others in the municipalities. It is an important activity with music, dance and all that it involves. If you want to reach everyone, you do it at school. Music and pictures are mandatory in school. The previous government also introduced Creative School. It was a very good reform, and you got more culture into school. The Minister of Culture chooses to add 100 million more to the cultural school. I have statistics from the Swedish Arts Council from 2015. A great deal of money is already being spent in the municipalities. There are 2.2 billion people going to cultural and music schools around the country. In 2012 – 2015 the allocation of money increased by 16 per cent. Pupils increased in 2012 – 2015 by 11 per cent for subject courses and 58 per cent for student places in assignments. It doesn't feel like there would be a crisis in the cultural and music school out in the municipalities. I am very wondering why you should spend more tax money at all at the municipal music school. The Minister himself has said that it was urgent to reduce the fee in the music school. Now there has been a report from the National Council for Culture on how the money has been distributed. There were 97 million allocated last year. Of 178 applications, 11 were not granted. There were four who went for toll reductions. Four municipalities chose to reduce the fees. Nor does it seem that there is a major problem in the municipalities with the fee. The cut on the fee is 644 SEK per semester. Maybe it's not that high. My question is again whether the Minister for Culture still believes it is an important task to reduce fees and prioritise from the government. There's another very strange thing about how the money is to be distributed. You can get money to increase quality, get new target groups or expand the courses. For those students, it should be free of charge. This means that children can attend the same dance or media course, and those who have arrived last pay nothing and the others pay their tuition fee. It feels very strange to me. Does the Minister of Culture think it's a good way to have tuition fees like that?
i-f415e0d498da1e91-574	Mr President, I would like to I assume Isabella Hökmark has read the Culture School investigation. If you do, you get a picture of the cultural school that is partly different from the picture that Parliament member Hökmark describes. Unfortunately, there are too many inequalities with the cultural school today. Not least, one of the major inequalities is about which children take part in the cultural school's offering. To a large extent, it is not all children from all different socio-economic backgrounds. It is an overweight of children with parents who themselves have cultural interest and are part of an establishment. We are convinced that all children are well off from cultural school activities. Therefore, the investigation and the SEK 100 million we invest each year are part of that we want to be able to offer all children who want that opportunity. Then we need to remove the obstacles that stand in the way of children. The fee may be such an obstacle. That is why it is good to choose to reduce the fee. I have been clear for a long time when we have been debating the question that there are also a lot of other things involved. This could be about reaching new target groups. This could be about functional variation adapting premises or in other ways strengthening and broadening operations – all in order to reach many more. Another area described in the investigation is the expansion. It is about the importance of developing more offers that children can be mirrored against. Not all children want to learn to play guitar or piano. If the supply stops at that, we lose the opportunity to expose more culture to even more children. We have to some extent read the Cultural School Inquiry differently and make different interpretations based on it. The government is convinced that we will continue to invest in the fantastic municipal activities and that we will use our common funds to do so. I am also pleased that I have had very special talks with SKL. It is so extremely important that we do it hand in hand with Sweden's municipalities so that we do not invest from the state level in investments that are not welcomed. Then it's pointless. What is important is that the municipalities feel that they are supported in their important work that they have done with vigour and commitment throughout the country but that they themselves also testify to can develop even more.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-581	Mr President, I would like to I have certainly not belittled the music and culture school. I think it's a great business, and I think it should come to all children. But that's also why it's so important to reform Creative school in school. There are all children, and there is more cultural activity for everyone. I think that's good. However, I wonder why you think that culture should be free of charge. There are other things that I see as equally important for children and young people and which have major health effects, such as sport. If the Minister of Culture constantly wants to lower the fee in the music school me da n it costs money to play football, the consequence is that children have to choose to play music. Just as important and true as that everyone certainly does not want to play the same instrument, it is that not everyone wants to play instruments or sing. It is gladly brought up in the debate as that it is the good municipalities that have no, or very low, fees. But if you look at the tax subsidy in all municipalities you notice that it is high at the cultural and music school regardless of the fee the municipality has. You can rather see a relationship when it comes to those who do not have a fee and higher tax. I think the municipalities have a choice. In municipalities that want free of charge, local residents have chosen to vote for the representatives who do so. In other, often more bourgeois municipalities, they have chosen to have a higher fee but also to have lower taxes. However, there are even Social Democrats who are now raising their voices and saying that municipal taxes have become far too high and that there are therefore problems for people when they have no room left for themselves. Therefore, my questions are: can the Minister of Culture see that it is a problem when municipal taxes are too high by subsidising certain activities? And why should music or cultural activities have low fees but not sport, which is just as important?
i-f415e0d498da1e91-586	Mr President, I would like to I am Minister of Culture and Democracy. My main task is to defend free art and create better conditions for it. This means that there is probably nothing I am putting so much effort into as my discussions with the Minister for Finance. I put my energy into arguing for and fighting for more crowns for Swedish culture. As a result, since we took office as a government, we have increased the Swedish national cultural budget by a total of SEK 767 million. It's historical money, and I'm very proud of it. We show with action, with power and with crowns that we want to invest in contexts. We want to invest in people's opportunities – in children's opportunities – to perform culture and art but also to take part in others' culture and art. Culture school is part of this. That is why we are making these investments. The priority to invest is fully visible. You can see it with the means pumping out right now. But when Isabella Hökmark puts this against sport, I would like to stress that it is not either or. We can afford it. Sweden is one of the richest countries in the world. We must be able to afford to think long-term about what creates context and also what creates health and hope. During periods when the school may be difficult or when you live in conditions where you are not seen at home, it is amazing that there are both sports activities and cultural activities. As long as we are in the government, it should be noticed that we are investing in and developing this more and more.
i-f415e0d498da1e91-590	Mr President, I would like to There is a great ideological difference between us. The consequences of the culture minister's view are precisely that they are stringing to the option of choice. I'm not going into sports, but we can take another example. Now the Minister of Culture has decided that it should be free to go to state museums for all families. But then you raise the biomoms. If you have limited resources in a family, you can take your children with you and go to a museum. It is important to do so; I think so too. But you may not always want to go to museums, and you will string the access to a cinema show. It's gonna be a lot more expensive. There is a big difference between going into a museum for free and paying movie tickets for a family of four or five people. I'll never be able to compete for expenses. I do not want to do that either, because we have a different idea of what to do with tax money or citizens' money – because that is not our money. It is every person who has worked them together, and I think you should use a larger part yourself. If so, our idea is that we want to provide support where it is really needed. That is why we had proposed the extracurricular money that could be used to pay the music school as well as to pay for another leisure activity. It is a question of deploying support precisely to the families that need it. It is better to target the aid than to give it to everyone, who may not always need this reduction in charges. Why is it the minister who decides what cultural activity a family should go on? Why should the minister decide to go to a museum and not to a movie? Why not let the families decide for themselves?
i-f415e0d498da1e91-595	Mr President, I would like to It can be reminded that over time there is no correlation between the price of a movie ticket and the number of cinema visits, Isabella Hökmark. Nor have I seen any study showing that ticket prices have been rising radically since the turn of the year. I think we should be careful when we throw ourselves with what effect has what root causes. As a cultural politician, we should rather invest in more culture for more people. We will create the opportunities that allow more people to take part in culture, and dare to prioritise it. However, as the honourable Member said, we have different ideological values in the discussion. I will continue to fight for culture school and for investing in contexts, experiences and entertainment – things that shake and provoke. I will continue to defend free art.
