i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-5	Mr President, I would like to Christian Holm Barenfeld has asked me how an alternate year could help to reduce the skills gap in the Swedish labour market. The Government decided on 24 May 2017 that a special investigator will investigate employees' opportunities for development and transition during working life, while others will have the opportunity for work experience, through an alternate year. A well-functioning labour market with good conditions for transition has proved to be a success factor both in good times and in bad. It is even better if the adaptability of the labour force can also be based on the personal needs of individual workers. An alternate year can be one such measure that opens up opportunities for employees to contribute to the transition and development in a secure way. There are people who have secure jobs but who can feel that it is not sustainable in the long term and that they must therefore change, for example by acquiring new skills, changing jobs or jobs, for a period of time be free or start a business. The government wants to increase the opportunities for people to take responsibility for working the whole working life flexibly. Investigating the possibility of an alternate year should be seen in this context. Others feel stressed not to be able to plan their future as a result of precarious employment relationships or a concern about the planing of working hours. The Government therefore decided that the investigator will also investigate, among other things, the protection of workers from changing employment relationships in connection with the re-regulation of the employment rate, protection of the employment of intermittent employees and whether workers should be entitled to an employment rate corresponding to the actual working time under certain conditions.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-9	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is in a boom, and everyone who can work will work. We need to increase the number of hours worked in the economy in order to cope with welfare and, by extension, future pensions. In this situation, the Social Democrats will be drawn up with an inquiry into free years, or alternate years as they now call it. You're supposed to get paid not to work. It will also be difficult to replace those who go on leave with other workers who can take their job in one year. There is a lack of skills in several professions. And it does not get any better with a free year, especially after the S-government raises taxes for many common professions. There will be more people paying government taxes, which means that it pays less to work more. Overall, the number of hours worked in the economy is decreasing. Today, more women are away from work because of mental illness than because of physical problems, and for men mental illness is just as common a reason for sick leave as for physical ill health. It is largely based on the lack of leadership of public employers. The Moderates have invested resources to control the workplaces that stand out especially in terms of mental illness. We even spend more money on the Swedish Work Environment Authority than the government for this purpose when it comes to mental illness but also total. If the purpose is to get sick leave, especially for sick leave due to mental illness, a free year will not be the solution. The Institute for Labour Market Policy Evaluation stated in its evaluation of the free year that there is no measurable support for a free year reducing future sick leave, either in terms of the number of sick leave periods or in terms of the number of sick leave days. On the other hand, it has speeded up people's pension decisions. People who took a free year tend to retire earlier. Nor is there much enthusiasm from the Social Democratic ranks. Then I think mostly about the unions. The Chairman of the Municipal Council was surprised that the decision is now being made to put full effort and energy into allowing more people to work in the welfare sector, because the welfare sector is screaming for labour, as the Minister is sure to know. Nor does the municipal understand how it will work in practice when there is such a shortage of labour today. I share the view of Kommunal on this particular point. The TCO President is also doubtful about the year of change, or the year of release, and whether it is the right model to introduce today. This is another strange proposal from the Social Democracy, which is completely wrong in time, and it does not serve any purpose. This does not help to increase the number of hours worked, it drains the workforce on skills and it is estimated to cost SEK 2 billion. 1 million people are in exclusion and dependency. It would be better to put energy into these people getting into work than for the government to put energy into people being free. How can an alternate year, or a free year, help to reduce the skills gap that we have in the Swedish labour market? Let's hear what the minister says.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-20	Mr President, I would like to Everyone who can work should work. There's Erik Andersson and I agree. It is not true that we have a reduced number of hours worked in the economy – on the contrary. The number of hours worked in the economy is increasing, and so it should be. We need more hours worked and more people at work. To achieve this, an active labour market policy is needed, but above all an economic policy that ensures that companies can and want to invest and employ. We have such a policy in place, and we see that jobs are growing. But we also need to extend working life. Too many people leave work prematurely, and too many people are currently on sick leave. It is an enormous waste of skills that people are away from working life or that people are being rejected. In fact, sometimes people are also eliminated from the labour market for age reasons. Erik Andersson obviously already knows what an alternate year would look like, what it would cost and what effects it would have. I don't know. That's why I've set up an investigation to look at this and make suggestions. After the investigation is complete and suggestions are made, I and the government will decide whether they are good proposals and whether we should proceed with them. However, let me say, Mr President, that one of the most important challenges we are facing in Sweden at the moment – and which we share with many other countries – is to increase the resilience. Sweden, in an international comparison, has a very large capacity for conversion. We see that we have a lot of change and that a large proportion of the jobs that are changed or changed include new skills or new technologies in their use. We share this with the other Nordic countries, and this is probably an effect of the Swedish or Nordic labour market model. It is clear, however, that many are concerned about not being able to keep up with the developments that are taking place. Of course, employers have a huge responsibility, and of course the government and parliament have a great responsibility – for example, through the major investments we make in the work environment work at the Swedish Work Environment Agency and a new work environment strategy. However, the government also wants to see if there are opportunities to increase the individual's responsibility for their own transition. The example is that you have a job and actually realize that it is not sustainable in the long run. You may realize that you will not be able to cope right up to retirement in that particular job, despite the work environment, or that you will not be happy enough to do a good job. You would like to take another step in life – perhaps try starting a business, developing skills or taking a different path in working life. This is the perspective of the alternate year: looking at the complement that the individual can also take responsibility for his or her ability to remain in work until retirement age – and preferably also after retirement age, because we need people to stay much longer in the labour market than they generally do today.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-28	Mr President, I would like to The number of hours worked can hardly increase in a future in which you have an alternate year or a free year. This means that people are paid for not working, even if it is in a kind of transition. The transition is already the responsibility of the individual, as I see it. I do not know if the Minister himself believes in this, but if you let the former Secretary of the Green Party – a party that has been elected to re-establish the free year – investigate the issue, there is a risk that it is already clear what response the investigation will come to. I can bet it concludes that it would be great to introduce this. Hopefully, the Minister will reject the proposal, because it does not really feel like the Minister himself thinks it is very good. Why should taxpayers account for SEK 2 billion for something that is people's responsibility? Why should the state go in and take responsibility for individuals during an alternate year? The question is also who this will apply. How do you do the selection process? Should anyone who feels like getting an alternate year to try something else get it, or are there just a few well-chosen people? It doesn't feel like the investigation will be either objective or impartial. Another question is how to replace the people the Minister addresses – those who feel that they may have to cope with the whole working life. Many of them work in health care, for example as nurses. How can they be replaced when there is such a shortage of nurses today in the qualified professions? Similarly, we can take the school or the police as an example. It will be very difficult to replace a person who has vocational training – or an education at all. This is a crazy proposal, Mr President, or rather a crazy investigation that might be a proposal. It's just a waste of taxpayers' money.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-33	Mr President, I would like to Already today, people are free for skills development, with pay. It is the employer who pays, and it is the employer who decides when you have the opportunity and the right to competence development when you have a job. It is reasonable that this is the case, and that should continue to be the case. If you are unemployed and you need training to get back into the labour market, the taxpayer will rather take that cost in labour market policies or in general education policies. Several studies and the social partners have repeatedly concluded that we have a gap in the type of skills development that is not directly motivated by the current work, that is, the responsibility of the employer, but is directed towards people who have jobs – and who, of course, have no desire to become unemployed. Who will finance this, and how will this type of skills development be practical? That is one of the biggest and most important issues to solve. I do not know the answer to that question, but it is absolutely worth turning a number of stones and exploring various options to get closer to the answer. Perhaps there is not only one solution; it is possible that there are several. An important question that Erik Andersson points to is who should pay. Should it be the taxpayer, the employer, the individual or a combination? Should the combination look different depending on different situations in working life? I do not know, but it is absolutely worth investigating the issue and looking at what proposals can be made. Then, of course, you will have to consider, debate and see what solutions are realistic, have support and can contribute to more people staying longer in work and can contribute longer. One of the biggest problems we have today is that so many people, not least in the welfare sector – competent, qualified people – are on sick leave for a long time. Many also get sick leave early in their working life. This is completely unreasonable. We have now finally begun to reverse developments, but much more needs to be done. Of course, the employer has full responsibility for the work environment in the workplace, but it is also reasonable to look at other ways to supplement. To conclude, Mr President, I have great confidence in Anders Wallner as an investigator. I am absolutely sure that he will follow the directives and put forward proposals that are well-founded and that we will then have to discuss and take a position on.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-40	Mr President, I would like to I understand that the Minister claims to have great confidence in the investigator it has appointed. But if you want an objective, impartial investigation, why do you appoint a person who is a member of a party who has been elected to reinstate the free year? Then it feels as if it is already given what answer the investigation will come up with. I can bet the Minister that the investigation will conclude that this is a great proposal; I see no other option. Speaking of the work environment, the psychosocial work environment is all the more important to look at. The employer has a responsibility here, and of course the employees also have a responsibility. You have a joint responsibility for how the atmosphere is at work. When it comes to the psychosocial working environment, much is based on organisation and what managers you have. Leadership is an important factor, and unfortunately a lot of public employers are lacking. We can see from the various figures that it is usually the public employers who stand out when it comes to sick leave for psychosocial reasons. Mr President, I would like to I do not even think we need to investigate this issue. It will be a huge waste of taxpayers' money. Now the minister didn't know who was going to pay, but there's always someone else who's going to have to pay – and a lot of people are always Swedish people. This will be of no use to you. It is strange, Mr President, how a workers' party has become a party for welfare and tax increases.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-43	Mr President, I would like to Employers in publicly funded activities have problems with the working environment to a greater extent. What we have seen from the Swedish Work Environment Authority is not that there is any difference between whether it is public or private, but rather it is the publicly funded business, especially health and social care, that has major problems with the working environment. There has been a worthy report from the Swedish Work Environment Authority during the spring. This report is a good basis for the necessary work that employers must do. My colleague Annika Strandhäll has started and got the parties on a very ambitious job to bring down sick leave. This needs to be done, and there is no contradiction here. Mr President, I would like to I have already responded to how I see the importance of investigating and that we turn all the stones and look at various proposals that can help compensate for the absence of functioning systems for transition and competence development in the workplace beyond what is the employer's responsibility. To conclude, I would like to say this: I think it is important – and it is something for the government and myself to stand up for – that we make a difference when a person represents his party and when the person is working in the service of the state. We have many good examples of representatives of different political parties – representatives of all political parties, not least of the Moderates – who have played a role as party representatives and have later played a role as governor or investigator or otherwise worked in the service of the state. These representatives have done their work well and have known to distinguish between the roles of party representatives and the role of government. I know that Anders Wallner can distinguish between these roles.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-48	Mr President, I would like to Erik Andersson has asked me what measures I intend to take to reduce unemployment and the number of long-term unemployed. The fact that the number of people enrolled at Arbetsförmedlingen is increasing right now is an expected development and mainly a consequence of the fact that many of the refugees who came to Sweden in 2015 have now had their residence permit examined. Those who have been granted a residence permit now sign up for Arbetsförmedlingen in the commission to start their establishment period, study Swedish for immigrants and apply for a job. The increase in the number of people enrolled in the Employment Service does not therefore mean that the labour market has deteriorated. On the contrary, the development of the Swedish labour market is strong. Since the government took office, employment has increased by 200 000 people. About 70 per cent of the employment growth has occurred among foreign born children. The employment rate of foreign born children is now the highest since 2005 when Sweden began to measure this. The official unemployment statistics from SCB show that unemployment continues to decline. In April, unemployment was 6.6 per cent, compared with 7.9 per cent at the turn of the government. The target set by the previous government in 2014 of 5 million people employed by 2020 has already been reached – three years earlier. However, major problems and challenges remain in the labour market. In order to achieve the government's very ambitious target of having the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020, people who are currently far from the labour market must also get into work. The share of the unemployed who are far from the labour market has increased over many years. This is particularly true of those who do not have completed upper secondary education, those born outside Europe, persons with disabilities with reduced working capacity and older unemployed persons. Today there is a great shortage of labour in many occupations and sectors. Many of the professions in which there is currently a shortage of labour do not require long-term training, but the right vocational training goes a long way. I am therefore concerned that so few of those enrolled in the Employment Service, not least those in the establishment assignment, are moving to education. The transition of more people to education and training is crucial to reducing unemployment, meeting labour market needs and tackling the two-way labour market in the long term. Roads to education have therefore been strengthened and will be further strengthened by the start-up support introduced in July 2017 for the short-term unemployed. A major boost of knowledge with 70 000 new training places has been initiated. The government is also reviewing the possibility of CSN loans to take driving licences. In order to stimulate the emergence of jobs with lower qualification requirements, the government has expanded RUT, and the use of RUT is now breaking record levels. We know that subsidised employment is an effective way of getting people who are far removed from the labour market into employment. Through extra services and modern standby jobs, the possibility of work has been strengthened for those who have been unemployed for a very long time or are new in Sweden, and we see that these efforts are developing at a good pace. The government is also reviewing subsidised employment to make it easier and more accurate. The Government's measures and financial investments aim to create more jobs and to strengthen and shorten the way to work for both new arrivals and the other unemployed. By harnessing the resources of those who have come to Sweden, we have the opportunity to both reduce unemployment and meet the high demand for labour.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-60	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by wishing the Minister a happy summer. This is most likely my last interpellation debate with the Minister during this parliamentary year. I think the Minister has been working well but, of course, in the wrong direction. Mr President, I would like to We are in a strange situation. Despite a boom, the number of unemployed persons enrolled in the Employment Service is increasing for the second consecutive month. The employment gap between native and foreign born is increasing. Arbetsförmedlingen themselves calls it a trend break. At the same time, the proportion of long-term unemployed receiving some kind of activity from the Employment Service is decreasing. The Red Green Government is much further away from the objective of the EU's lowest unemployment rate now than when it took office, while at the same time we are in a boom. The number of unemployed now stands at 352,856 persons – 352,856 persons. The measures presented by the Minister have made little use of these people. Out of 32,000 promised trainee positions, it was 473. Out of 20,000 promised extra posts, it was 3,713. Of 13 000 promised training contracts, there were only 2 555. Out of 5,000 standby jobs, it was 495. The only thing that the government has managed to achieve in terms of these measures is to achieve the number of standby jobs, for only 500 of them were promised in 2017. The overall rating for the government is not approved or, if you are to speak in grade terms, a large F. It is very risky that the number of unemployed is increasing in a boom. When the recession comes – as it will at some point, the question is only when – it becomes even more difficult for these people to enter the labour market. H is the government has a great responsibility. Behind each number is a human being, and it is a person who wants nothing more than to have a job to go to.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-67	Mr President, I would like to The challenges we face and which we are in the midst of are huge and should in no way be underestimated. But to be able to cope with them and tackle them properly, it is important to see where the problem persists. We see that we have a decrease or a stable development in all groups that are enrolled in Arbetsförmedlingen except those who are enrolled in the establishment assignment. So it is not the case that we have a general increase in unemployment among, for example, foreign born people, but that we have an increase in the number of people enrolled in the start-up mission. Why, then, is this important to say? Well, that means that it has not become more difficult for foreign born to get a job on the Swedish labour market. Instead, what has happened is that we have received a large addition of people who have just arrived in Sweden and who are enrolled in the normal two-year start-up assignment. Many have yet to come a little bit along the way within this start-up assignment, but they are in the statistics entered in the Employment Service in the category of unemployed, all of whom are at Arbetsförmedlingen. I and the government believe that it is important that we invest in this particular group, because we see that that is where we have the problems and the major challenges. It is a question of making the start-up assignment more effective. We need to make much better use of that time. Fortunately, last week the Riksdag decided on a major reform of the establishment mission. This took place in broad and broad agreement between the four bourgeois parties and the government. The former government's establishment assignment had many good parts, such as the focus on jobs and rights for the individual. There were also things that were less good, such as establishment slots, that we have removed. What we do with the new law is that we provide the opportunity to make demands on the individual, because rights and requirements must be balanced, and they have not really done so in the establishment mission. On 1 January, the new law and many new regulations will apply which will allow us to make clearer demands on those who participate in the start-up assignment. I also require Arbetsförmedlingen to streamline efforts and work during the start-up period. When we look at the statistics, we should focus on how we increase the outflow to work from the establishment mission, but, Mr President, I would like to add how we also increase the outflow to education. A significant proportion of new arrivals are both young and have a short education. At the same time, we have a shortage in many professions that require vocational training but not higher education. It should be possible to achieve better matching by equipping people with the skills required in the labour market.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-75	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that the Social Democrats have been lucky enough to rule during a boom, and we are in itself all happy that Sweden is doing well. Our companies are doing well. We are all happy about the efforts that companies make by hiring people, and they are good for Sweden. However, the government's efforts to reduce unemployment are less successful. Overall, it can be said that it is companies, regardless of government policy, that are making sure to employ and that unemployment is falling. But then there is the problem of the long-term unemployed. The big problem is that if they don't get into work now, they'll hardly get into work when there's a recession. The Minister spoke of demands, and it was long awaited. At last, the needless society is over. I agree with you that demands are good and that demands should be made, because without demands there will be no action. The Moderates have two clear job goals. We want to start by halving the job gap between native and foreign born and that half a million new jobs will be created by 2025. We want to redo Arbetsförmedlingen so that it becomes more like a control authority, while the jobs will be passed on by those who are experts at it, and, Madam Minister, not as before when it came to the job coaches, but this will produce better results. It shall be a form of grant for different employments. We want to make it easy for employers. I am thinking mainly of companies, because they are the ones who create the jobs. If you're an entrepreneur, you don't have time for over-bureaucracy. It must be easy to do the right thing. I have met many entrepreneurs who have had contact with Arbetsförmedlingen and have been able to consider hiring someone who has a grant. But it's so super-bureaucratic, Minister, so eventually the entrepreneurs get tired, unfortunately, of having contact with the Employment Service. It's boring, because it's the companies that create jobs. Of course, we are all happy that we have a boom, but unfortunately we see that the government is raising taxes on jobs or choosing to throw important companies out of the country, such as Nordea. Housing is also an important part of getting a job somewhere. It makes it more expensive to build rental apartments through lower interest rebates, and it makes it more expensive to live in rural areas – I am thinking mainly of air tax. It is fortunate that the government is ruling in a boom, because otherwise things would have gone very badly for the country, Mr President.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-85	Mr President, I would like to This is a discussion that we have had many times, even when I was a representative of previous Social Democratic governments. Are Social Democratically led governments lucky and bourgeois governments unlucky? It could be. Every time we have a bourgeois government, surpluses are turned into deficits in the state's finances and unemployment is increasing. With a Social Democratic Minister of Finance, we are turning deficits into surpluses in the state's finances and reducing unemployment. Is it luck or skill, or is it the content of politics that matters? Now it is not we politicians who give our own grades, and it is fortunate that we do. Erik Andersson failed me. After all, it is the voters who give our grades. That is what is special about being a politician and representing a political party. For the observers are always right when they give their grades and vote in elections, and we have to deal with this. And looking at how the voters, at least in opinion polls, assess the government's policy, it seems that Erik Andersson's party has more problems than the government has. Mr President, I would like to It should be easy to do the right thing, and I share the view that there is definitely a need for a real change and simplification of labour market support and employment support. If we are to be honest, Erik Andersson, this flora of subsidised employment has not been created during a Social Democratic government; they were also in the past. It is an old problem that too much effort is being made to get the most perfect job support, but it results in a flora that is incalculable, both for workers and employers, and in too much bureaucracy. Unfortunately, it is also not always possible to get to those who abuse the system. I have said before and I am happy to say again that it was more difficult to reform employment subsidies than I expected. I had to set up a major investigation to do that, and the investigation's work has gone very well. In this autumn's budget proposal, I expect to be able to present proposals for substantial simplifications of employment subsidies, which are very much awaited by employers but also by employment intermediaries.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-92	Mr President, I would like to I share the Minister's view that it is the voters who decide how we have behaved. We are procured, one might say, every four years and then see which government is formed after an election. However, I must say that if it is fortunate that the Social Democrats usually rule in a boom, it was in fact fortunate that we had Anders Borg who ruled during one of the biggest financial crises, during the previous term of office. It was luck for Sweden simply. Mr President, I would like to It is purely consumer information from my side to the electorate when I say that the government has failed. It is, of course, also a way for me to try to turn bad opinion around for my party. It is clear that we must all work hard to turn public opinion around. Otherwise, I have no more to add, Mr President, except that I wish the Minister a pleasant summer.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-95	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to wish Erik Andersson a nice summer. We have spent many Fridays here together, and I look forward to doing so with new powers even after the summer. I hope you have a nice and restful summer.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-96	Mr President, I would like to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me if I and the government will work towards establishing a third electricity connection between Gotland and the mainland.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-98	On 14 June this year, I replied in writing to the same question from Jesper Skalberg Karlsson. It follows from the answer that a basic condition is that as a minister I cannot have views on individual matters handled by an authority. Furthermore, I briefly described the mission of the Swedish power network and stressed that I assumed that Swedish power networks had taken full account of their mission when the decision to interrupt work on the Gotland connection was made. I am not making any other assessment today than that indicated in the written reply.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-100	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. A third power cable to Gotland has been planned and discussed for ten years. In several rounds, Swedish power grids have confirmed the plans, and many have certainly made investments in renewable electricity generation in the certainty that the grid will last even when the current two cables reach their economic and technical lifetime around 2030 – 2035. But now the plans are gone. Swedish power grids are interrupting the work, and a rather great uncertainty arises as it is becoming increasingly difficult to make a reasonable cost estimate for the renewable investment that individuals are planning. Here it should be said that Gotland is in many ways suitable for renewable electricity production. The island is flat, so it blows straight across. Our highest point is the garbage mountain. Add to that that we win the Sun League almost every year. There are few granted. The dream is also to be able to turn the current on windy summer days and send energy to the mainland. But on cold and windy winter days, it is required that the island is connected to the mainland to take advantage of the stable Swedish hydropower, the control power, which is really a force for us, and the nuclear power, as long as it remains. On a holistic level, it looks about the same throughout the Nordic region. We are moving more and more towards an integrated electricity grid where those who currently have the best conditions to produce energy also get it out of the grid. Of course, progress is being made in the field of energy, great progress is being made, with wave power, with smart grids, with storage and with new more efficient solar panels using algae to absorb new energy. But a country such as Sweden with such high climate ambitions cannot assume that the whole transition will be possible with only innovations. That would be naive. Add to this that Gotland has a unique location in the middle of the Baltic Sea, and take into account the situation in the event of a crisis. Gotland can be isolated and shielded in a short time, and every effort to prevent unnecessary emergencies should be seen from a total defence perspective. You could almost call a third cable a standby cable. Nevertheless, the Government has no views on the third cable, which has been promised Gotland for ten years. Isn't that a little strange?
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-110	Mr President, I would like to I, too, have some experience of Gotland. I did my military service there in the early 1990s and was on the island from October to July. I can confirm that there is quite a lot of wind there, even in winter. This is our big challenge in Sweden. We have large surpluses of electricity and energy in the summers and usually also in the winters. This is why Sweden is a net exporter of electricity. We are today and will continue to be. In the energy policy agreement between the government and three of the parliamentary parties, including the Moderates, we have agreed that the ambition is that Sweden should also be a net exporter of electricity. We have very good conditions to generate electricity thanks to the hydropower that Jesper Skalberg Karlsson talks about and which in many ways is a blessing to our country. As far as nuclear energy is concerned, according to industry, we have six reactors after 2020. How long these will run, according to the same agreement, is up to industry. There's a lot of wind in some parts of our country. I have learned that it blows an average of one and a half meters more per second in Sweden than in Germany. It apparently gives 25 - 30 percent more electricity, which is good. So we have good conditions. As far as Gotland's electricity supply is concerned, there are currently two cables. They are well able to cope with supply, and with the investments made, it will be secured for quite a long time to come. I think the honourable Member is fully aware that a minister cannot comment on an individual authority decision. It could be interpreted as ministerial rule, which is forbidden by our constitution. However, it is important that we have proper governance, and the government has recently presented a proposal on the governance of the Swedish power grid in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's report. Parliament has just dealt with this. Interestingly, when you read the report, you see that the Moderates, to whom the honourable Member belongs, along with several other parties have raised a motion that clearly states that Swedish power networks should take into account the socio-economic calculations when deciding on investments. This is exactly what Swedish power networks refer to in this case. Swedish power networks have done exactly what the Moderates want and which a united parliament has supported. I can quote from the report, unless the honourable Member has read it. I suppose the honourable Member, like everyone else, has voted in favour of this. It is clear that the motionaries, including the Moderates, want a stand-alone player like the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate to carry out socio-economic cost-benefit assessments in network investments to complement and ensure good cost-effectiveness in roll-out. This is what a united parliament has said, and that is also what the Swedish power grid refers to in this specific case. Is this reasonable or not? I can see that that is what the Riksdag and Jesper Skalberg Karlsson have voted for, and it would be strange for me to consider what the Riksdag has said. On the contrary, we will of course follow Parliament's decisions, especially as Parliament agrees on this.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-122	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. I shall mention two of the points raised by the Minister in particular. I'm glad the minister did his military service on Gotland. I am generally happy that people do military service on Gotland. Otherwise, my father would never have been there, and I wouldn't have come to it. So for that, I'm grateful. It is good that Sweden should continue to be a net exporter of electricity and energy, not only because it strengthens our role in the Nordic region and Europe as a green pioneer and a decoupling pioneer, as it has been called by some, but also because it is good democratic. It is better that countries in Europe and our neighbourhood receive electricity from Swedish nuclear power plants and hydroelectric plants than from Russian gas. It is therefore a good thing that this has been endorsed in the Energy Agreement. Mr President, I would like to The former board of Swedish power grids, led by Mikael Odenberg, has on two separate occasions made an assessment of a third cable to Gotland, and both times concluded that such a cable should be built. The latest decision to proceed with the electric cable was taken at the end of 2015, when a development plan was adopted for the period 2016-2025. Now they have a new board, led by Director General Ulla Sandborgh. The new Board of Directors has definitely interrupted the work because, as the Minister says, it does not see the benefits of the project and the socio-economic benefits. However, Swedish power networks have not reacted during the day to an announcement from the Riksdag. Few do; not even the government usually reacts to the day when an announcement comes. Instead, Swedish power networks operate on the basis of their regulatory letter, and both the old and the new Director General have the same mission; it is the same regulatory letter, identical. Nevertheless, the new board believes that the Gotland relationship can only happen if the government gives the explicit responsibility. It's strange. In the investment and financing plan for the years 2018 to 2021, SEK 1.8 billion is allocated to the Gotland cable. This was clubbed on 7 February this year after ten years of positive news from the Swedish power grid. But now the cable should not be built.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-132	For a Member of Parliament, this is something of a confusion. It is strange to me that two Directors-General who have identical mandates and allocated funds make completely different assessments and that the development possibilities of a region are being cut by just a few months' interval. The Minister is happy to clarify what makes it possible for the Authority, despite the same regulatory letter, to carry out completely different analyses.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-133	Mr President, I would like to It was gratifying to hear that Jesper Skalberg Karlsson is a result of military service on Gotland. It was mixed there, wine and water. In the summer it was very nice, but in winter it was windy. When it rained and blew at the same time it was very cold. But obviously it also brought good things – congratulations on that! As far as socio-economic calculations are concerned, I do not think that the honourable Member should underestimate Parliament's norm-setting decisions and the impact they have. Of course they have an impact – this is the country's highest decision-making body and elected representatives. When a united parliament pronounces itself, it is clear that it affects; it would be strange otherwise. It is also a normative step forward. That is, to quote the proposal from the Moderates, good cost-effectiveness. To underline this, it is complemented by independent cost-benefit assessments and put it first. Different boards can, based on different conditions, come up with different decisions. This can be the case over time, as conditions change. A decision has been made by the Swedish power network a first, a second and a third time, and it has taken place independently on all three occasions. As the honourable Member said, it has been included in the financial perspective that has been submitted to the government in the past. Now this is the decision that has been reached and, as I said, I am prevented from commenting on it because it is an individual authority decision. However, as the honourable Member said, there are many exciting things that are happening and that I think it is important that we take in the energy sector. It happens all over the scale. We have a development with a strong fall in the costs of renewable weather-dependent electricity generation in the form of wind power and solar cells. The costs have been reduced by between 50 and 80 percent over the past five to six years – a fantastic development. This has also given an impression in Sweden. In particular, wind power has increased sharply during both the former and the present government. We now have an installed capacity for wind power that can well match the Danish, which Denmark is known for. This will continue, because it is also part of our deal. Last week, Parliament decided to further strengthen support for renewables. There will be 18 new terawatt hours of renewable electricity generation in the next 13 years. This is something that we have agreed on and that will also happen. I assume that this will happen above all where the best wind is located and where there are conditions for hydropower, bioenergy and more. There are also major changes in electricity transmission and the development of smart grids. Gotland has not least been at the forefront there. Storage, which in the past was far too expensive and difficult to see, would also take place on a large scale – with the exception of hydro power – is becoming cost-effective. Mr President, I would like to Looking forward, I think it's important that we're not completely bound by how it looked back, because there are a lot of exciting things happening. I want Sweden and Gotland to be at the forefront. I want us to lead the way – that it is perfectly possible to live a good life with stable access to energy and electricity and to do so in a way that does not destroy the environment and the climate. We have these good conditions, and we will take care of them.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-142	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I agree that Sweden should be at the forefront, and we do so in many ways. It is a position we should protect and develop rather than phase out. With regard to what the Government said about the role of the Riksdag, I just want to make a d efiniti on of what the Riksdag actually is. Parliament is the legislative power in Sweden. It is precisely a legislator rather than a statement power. We can look at, for example, the European Parliament, which is a body that often speaks out and supports various statements and uses it as a tool in democracy. It condemns certain events unitedly. In Sweden we don't really do that. Here the Riksdag is a legislator, and the government is putting proposals on our table. Mr President, I would like to As far as Gotland is concerned, I just want to say that we want what was promised to us. It may not have to be a new cable, as the Minister said, but it may be another technical solution. But the need is the same: good conditions, as the Minister said, for a good life where you can live and have energy from sustainable energy production even after 2030 or 2035, when the current two cables to Gotland have reached their technical lifetime. Otherwise, I would like to wish the Minister a pleasant summer. I hope to see him in Almedalen, because Gotland is perhaps the best in the summer.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-147	Mr President, I would like to On this we can fully agree – full political agreement, based on our own experience. Not to go in polemics, but that's not really what Jesper Skalberg Karlsson says. Of course this is the legislative power – this is where laws are decided. I have been in this House for a long time, and it has happened that this Parliament has made statements. So it is not entirely foreign. The decisions taken here, in addition to what is legislation, naturally affect the development of society. It would be weird otherwise, and it would be weird if our authorities didn't listen and see what's going on here. Many of the announcements come later in the form of investigations, legislative proposals and other things to the Riksdag, so of course they are poking their ears. Just for the sake of clarity: we have two relations today. We shall ensure, and we will continue to do so, that there is access to stable electricity supply for Gotland. That is the case, and that will be the case in the future. I would like to wish the honourable Member a nice summer. I'll see you in Almedalen. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish the President a good summer.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-152	Mr President, I would like to Jenny Petersson has asked the Minister for Social Security how and in what way the Minister and the Government have worked to satisfy the Riksdag's announcement that the permit requirement applicable to private activities should also apply to public activities within the social services. Jenny Petersson also wonders when the Minister for Social Security and the Government intend the announcement to be met and whether the Government intends to set up an investigation to support the introduction of a general permit requirement. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The quality of care and care is a central issue for the government. According to the Social Services Act, the actions of social services must be of good quality. It is a matter of compliance with legislation and the support they need for women, men, girls and boys who are in contact with social services. The municipality has a statutory responsibility to provide social services to citizens. In addition, private operators can apply for a permit to be active in social services. The fact that municipalities do not need to apply for permission for self-service activities does not mean that the requirements are lower in terms of quality of service. Regardless of whether a permit requirement is a requirement or not, the Inspection for Health and Care supervises both public and individual activities. The quality requirements are the same. In addition, the municipality's own control of the activities comes. There are different requirements in laws, regulations and government regulations that the activities should relate to. The quality requirements governing social services are comprehensive. For example, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations and general guidelines on management systems for systematic quality work specify how an operation should systematically and continuously work to develop and secure the quality of its operations. Another example is from LSS, the Act on Support and Service, which states that there should be the staff needed for good support, good service and care to be provided in a housing. The announcement is analysed within the Government Office, and I am not in a position to anticipate this preparation and handling in an interpellation debate. The government deals with the announcement in the usual order and will come back on the matter.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-159	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, those women and men, girls and boys who have been or are in contact with social services have not received the support they need. The pressure on social services – especially a year ago – has been very high, and sometimes totally unacceptable. If I back up the tape a little, the government halved the resources for supervision of HVB homes. The resources for supervision and follow-up at IVO, the Health and Welfare Inspection, have been cut. Many municipalities lex Sarah reported themselves because they could not live up to current legislation. There was a lot of anxiety in this area. It is obvious that Swedish welfare should be built on diversity and be able to combine with careful control over our common resources. Quality must always be the focus, and we must set tough quality requirements, regardless of the performers. Hence my questions to the government and Åsa Regnér. The social services operator must be authorised by contract with a municipality to carry out such an activity. IVO's authorisation is only granted if it meets the requirements of good quality and safety. It should reasonably be the case that the same requirements are imposed on activities carried out by municipalities in order to obtain this permit. This is what Parliament voted for, hence this announcement. Unfortunately, the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party did not want these demands to apply to everyone. It is considered that a general authorisation requirement for municipalities would be too large an interference in the municipal self-government. I find it sad that the red-green parties lack the ambition of a welfare that ensures quality for all businesses, private and public, that provide welfare services. Everyone should meet the requirements of good quality and safety. The announcement is now being prepared within the Government Office, and the Minister cannot answer when the preparation is complete. But it would have been interesting to hear what the Minister himself thinks. Should it be the same requirement for the public as for the private sector? Should authorisation be required for both activities?
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-166	Mr President, I would like to I really think we should have the same quality requirements. This is about people's lives in different vulnerable situations. That's why I really think so. The studies that have been carried out comparing the quality of private and public care show about the same quality. It's hard to tell the difference there. The activities of municipalities in the field of social services are, of course, intended to provide these services. It has a legal obligation to assume that responsibility and carry out the exercise of authority. I was – and still is – very worried when I took office as Minister of Social Services. The Alliance government had held that responsibility for eight years and left behind a social service with enormous shortcomings, which is well documented by trade unions, SKL and the Academy. There are so many studies that show, above all, that social care for children and young people has been under unreasonable pressure for many years. Your government, Jenny Petersson, introduced a lot of bureaucracy and rules. Not all rules are wrong, but many of them are designed to secure the position of children, for example, when it comes to placements. But nothing was done to help the social services to cope with all the demands. That is why we have provided funds for staffing in social care for children and young people. The situation did not really improve for the staff situation in 2015 with the large influx of refugees. M a situation was very serious even before it, and you knew it. That is why we have contributed funds to staffing. We have tightened the requirements for the coordinator working on these issues. We have introduced many of her proposals on how to strengthen social care for children and young people. We also work with the Ministry of Education to address the problems of children who have been placed in social care for children and young people. They perform worse in school and have worse health. These are serious questions. We have taken a number of measures to strengthen social care for children and young people and, above all, to improve the lives of these children. It is an example of how we have worked with quality. Similarly, we have allocated funds to care for the elderly, EUR 2 billion per year for staff in care for the elderly in order to increase the quality of the elderly's lives. We have also asked for a comprehensive proposal for a quality plan for elderly care in the present and future that we have received. That proposal is now being referred, and we will be presenting such a plan. I think the requirements should be the same with the performers, and I work very hard on the quality of the performance of these services. The lives of the people who are granted social services should be of high quality. You're supposed to get the support you're entitled to and you need.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-176	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the Minister is very pleased with the area of social services. Unfortunately, I find it worrying to have such a satisfied minister. It has been very high – unacceptably high – pressure on social services. Many municipalities have lex Sarah registered themselves because they cannot comply with the legislation in force. But this is not going to be a general debate on social services. I had a question about how the government has satisfied the Riksdag's announcement that the authorisation requirement applicable to private activities should also apply to public activities. It's being prepared within the Government Office. I cannot get an answer about when – or even if you want – you will satisfy this. If you follow the line of your comrades in the committee. There we are opposed to this, and we certainly do not want the same general permit requirement for all those who perform in welfare. I think that it is important and central that the demands placed on welfare practitioners should be equivalent regardless of the type of operation. The minister's focus – just as my focus is – should be to ensure the quality of welfare regardless of the performer. I find it regrettable that today I cannot get an answer to whether the Minister wants a general authorisation requirement regardless of the operator.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-181	Mr President, I would like to I will be brief: we are preparing the announcement and we will come back to that point.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-182	Mr President, I would like to As I said, it is clear that the parties here in the Swedish parliament believe that it is important that there should be requirements for activities run by the municipalities themselves. As the Minister says, it is time for the government to deliver this. Finally, I would like to wish you, Åsa Regnér, and your family a very nice summer. I'm sure I'll see you in Almedalen.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-184	Mr President, I would like to I wish the same, and we will see each other again in the debate, in Almedalen and elsewhere.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-185	Mr President, I would like to Ewa Thalén Finné has asked me how the work of the government and the organisation committee is progressing with the new gender equality agency. Furthermore, questions are asked about which parts and responsibilities will be moved from other authorities to the new gender equality authority and what the timetable is. Finally, Ewa Thalén Finné wonders how the government ensures that important activities currently carried out within other authorities, such as the National Centre for Women's Peace (NCK) at Uppsala University, are not broken down and are affected by skills losses in connection with the move. The report on the creation of a gender equality agency (S 2016:10) was established in December 2016 and will prepare and implement the creation of an equality authority. The investigator's work is ongoing according to the Directives ( Dir. 2016:108) by taking the necessary measures to enable the Authority to start operations on 1 January 2018. The assignment includes transferring assignments and tasks from other authorities to the gender equality authority. Those parts of the Authority's activities are also due to start in January 2018. From the University of Gothenburg, the mission is transferred to promote gender research in Sweden, which must be done, among other things, through investigation work and dissemination of information. The University of Gothenburg shall continue to be responsible for promoting gender research in the higher education sector and for research, insofar as such research is carried out in connection with the Government mission. In addition, the temporary mandates for gender mainstreaming in government agencies (JIM) are transferred and permanent and serve as a support function for gender mainstreaming in universities and higher education institutions. From Uppsala University's mission on men's violence against women, the parts related to the development and dissemination of evidence-based knowledge and information about men's violence against women, honour-related violence and oppression, violence in same-sex relationships and the assignment to compile current research in the field. Uppsala University will continue to be responsible for the task of collaborating with Uppsala University Hospital in matters related to clinical activities and related research and analysing the need for new research in the field. The investigator shall also consider whether the responsibility for the national support telephone should be transferred to the gender equality authority. The Government has been informed that the investigation makes the assessment that the national support telephone should remain at Uppsala University. From the County Administrative Board of Stockholm County, the national assignments on prostitution and human trafficking for sexual and other purposes are transferred and permanent. Finally, the tasks are transferred to allocate state grants to women's organisation and to gender equality projects from the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society. In particular, it is clear from the commission of the investigation that knowledge and experience must be taken into account and that the work can be carried out without interruption. The investigation shall address these issues in close cooperation with the relevant authorities. The Government has also given special assignments to all relevant authorities, including Uppsala University, where the National Centre for Women's Peace is located, to prepare the transfer. For these missions too, the starting point is that knowledge and experience should be acquired as far as possible and that the work can be carried out without interruption. The government trusts that the investigation and the relevant authorities will perform their duties in the best possible way.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-188	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking Minister Åsa for her answer. During my interventions I intend to stick to the subject of violence in close relationships, which is a very big social problem. A woman or man who is subjected to violence in a close relationship is treated very differently depending on where he or she lives, the socio-economic group he or she belongs to and the social safety net. If you live in a relationship where you are exposed to threats and violence, you are very vulnerable. An important social issue is how we all respond to the woman or man – usually woman – who is exposed. The greatest concern a woman with violence has is whether or not to be believed. Who, then, is it a violent woman or one meets when they dare the step to break the relationship with a destructive partner? A first contact can be NCK's support phone, which supports and guides the person correctly. It can also be about social services or other municipal activities, health care, dental care, the police or a non-profit women's shelter. So the first woman to meet is someone at the local level. We have 290 municipalities, 20 county councils and around 160 non-profit women's shelters in our country. This is where most victims make their first contact. There are many good activities in the country, but unfortunately, in principle all investigations show that there is a lack of cooperation between authorities. The shortcomings are between social services, women's shelters, health care and the police. Most often this is due to a lack of knowledge among different actors. Why am I lifting this particular thing up? One experience I've got from when I've been out around the country is that now that NCK has been operating for over 20 years, most actors have knowledge of this business. They are familiar with its support phone and clinical activities. They also know that NCK holds training courses both on site and online, and that method and knowledge support for municipalities is being provided and that it is being developed for regions and county councils as well. NCK has gathered a knowledge bank on research, methodological support and the ambitions of the government and parliament regarding violence in close relationships. Gathering all this expertise in one place is, of course, very valuable. This increases the opportunities for local actors facing women who are victims of violence to be able to seek support, knowledge and skills, and they do so increasingly. Since we all believe that violence in close relationships is something that should not exist at all, it is surprising that the government wants to break down a very well-functioning operation. We have seen that when reorganisations are carried out, competence and experience are lost. What guarantees does the Government have that competence and experience will not be broken and lost?
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-196	Mr President, I would like to I have, of course, given a lot of thought to this issue. Even long before I became a minister and had other capacities, I was concerned that Sweden does not have a coherent governance of gender equality policy. During your time in power, you produced several investigations into men's violence against women and about gender equality, which worked at the same time. Sometimes an investigation was conducted before another was completed. Your investigation into gender equality policy, although the conviction exists – I do not doubt it – and that we share the same objective that violence against women must stop, that reality did not move that way during your time in power even if you made efforts to do so. Moreover, the cessation of violence against women was an objective of equality policy which you maintained during your time in power. The gender equality inquiry that you yourself drafted directives and set up showed that they accumulated, often good, efforts that had been made did not lead to a fall in levels of violence. And these are the ones that affect women's lives. We have to do it another way. Both the investigation and the Swedish National Audit Office, which have conducted a study on gender equality policy during your time in power, have shown that two areas – violence and women's economic situation – were not affected by gender equality policy. I think this is very serious. They therefore proposed a different approach to gender equality policy. It must become more coherent, as you yourself mention, more coordinated and more professional, as it is in other areas. I was there when NCK was formed and have followed its work over the years. A wonderful job has been done, and it is still being done. But the fact that there are activities in so many different places– which in itself is because we have not had a collecting authority that exists in all other policy areas– has meant that the power has not been as great as it could have been. This is about people's lives. That's the most important thing. But it is also a question of funds being invested. In your time, more than 2 billion were dedicated to gender equality work, which I thought was good. About half went to work against violence. However, this was not the case at the level of violence. That is why we are making these changes. The whole thing is well thought out and the need for change is well met. I have the greatest confidence in the organisation committee, which has had very good talks with the various bodies that have taken a great responsibility and done a good job. They will continue to do so in part.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-201	Mr President, I would like to The fact that we agree and have agreed over time that violence in close relationships should end is excellent. It would be surprising if any party did not think it was a very urgent and important issue. However, I would like to point out to the Government that statistics from the Crime Prevention Council have shown that the number of deaths in violence in close relationships has fallen from 17 to 13 women each year. Now it's way too much, because of course no one should have to die in close relationships. But I think you should be a little careful to say that nothing has happened, because it has. Then I would like to come back to this with the government wanting to bring this together into an authority that will have a very broad responsibility for the issue of gender equality. In my world, there is a great and obvious risk that practical activities will always be down-priority when you have such a broad responsibility as the new gender equality authority will have, given that gender equality policy is everywhere and in all policy areas. On the basis of the answer I received and what I have heard before, I would like to add that not all activities related to violence in close relationships are brought together. The assignment of the County Administrative Board of Östergötland County will remain in Östergötland. The support phone should probably remain. In addition, Uppsala University will continue to be responsible for the task of collaborating with the University Hospital in matters relating to clinical activities and research. It does not bring together all activities related to violence in close relationships. On the other hand, you break – or risk breaking – a very well-known activity at the National Centre for Women's Peace in Uppsala. That is what I find so worrying. The biggest dilemma we see when it comes to violence in close relationships – when you don't get the help you need or when it goes as far as someone dies – is that authorities at local level together with the police don't fully interact in the way you should. Now that we know that NCK has developed methodological support that is being used more and more and that it works very actively with education and educates more and more people, I am extremely worried that this business is being broken down. If there is one thing we know, it is that the reorganisation of an activity removes competence and experience. It's never carried on as if nothing had happened. We can see which areas we look at. You lose skills and experience. What does that mean? What guarantees can the Government give that this will not happen?
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-206	Mr President, I would like to As I said before, there are plenty of evidence to show that this change is needed. It is needed to change people's lives, to ensure that taxpayers' money is well spent in accordance with the objectives adopted by the Riksdag and, indeed, that I can be held accountable. That is not possible today, because this responsibility is divided. If violence against women does not decrease, you can point to many actors. At least here is an authority that has a collective responsibility for gender equality policy. For me as a social democrat, there is also a big point in the fact that gender equality policy is a whole. I think it's six interpellations or something like that-- I'll count them more carefully since-- that I've been given by representatives of the interpellier's party on this particular issue, that is, how different activities should be organised in relation to the gender equality authority. You have every right to make interpellations about this. However, it is a little distressing that you obviously have no views on gender equality policy as a whole. Where are we gonna be in ten years? What do we want with the whole policy area? Violence against women is the ultimate form of extreme oppression of women. But how can you access the mechanisms behind it and the notions that men have that they have the right to control, strike or even murder women? This, of course, has to do with equality throughout society. Women must have money so that they can pay for a life for themselves and leave bad relationships. They must have good working conditions and a salary to live on. They must be represented in parliament and in municipalities. We need a dialogue on the whole of equality policy, and we need to move forward in terms of gender equality policy. All six objectives of gender equality policy, which we fortunately have an agreement on in Parliament with the adoption of the letter here, which I am pleased about, are working together. We need to make sure we move forward towards all of them. During your time in power, not enough steps were taken, for example, in economic equality policy. For me, this is a very important question. I want to run this area as professionally as any other policy area. I think this policy area is just as important as everyone else. Ewa Ewa Thalén, your party leader will be happy to rally over this authority. In vulnerable residential areas you should not have police stations, but you should get an equality authority," she said in the party leader debate. Everyone would understand that this was ridiculous and ridiculous. The police are important, but equality is not important. It was some kind of assumption on which her glaring was based. I don't think so. I think equality is important, and I think police officers are important. In women's and men's lives in residential areas of different kinds, it is important that you can decide your life regardless of gender and that the police come if you call. I also wonder a little who you want to laugh when you say things like this. It cannot be the women's movement, because it has really supported the gender equality authority and asked for it for a long time. The UN has asked for a more professional way of governing gender equality policy in Sweden. Most organisations I meet who work with gender equality issues think that it is very good to have an equality authority. Who is it you turn to? Could it possibly be the men who vote for the Swedish Democrats you turn to, after the attempt to approach the Swedish Democrats from the Moderates completely fallen? The Swedish Democrats are still the real thing. I really don't understand this. I would like to have a debate on the whole of equality policy, but we can continue to talk about organisational issues.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-211	Mr President, I would like to Police against an authority. What am I supposed to say? It is possible for the Minister to ralli, and that is what I think she did in her previous speech. I didn't get any answers to my questions. Gender equality is, in my view, an extremely important issue. We also fully agree in the Swedish Parliament that the gender equality objectives we have are very important and that we must achieve them. The ultimate objective of gender equality, which I think is absolutely most important, is to end violence against women. This issue is actually organisational. What I am concerned about is that well-functioning authorities and businesses do not usually bring with them knowledge and experience when we break them. I still have no answer as to whether the Government can give any assurance that the activities that may be transferred to a new authority in Gothenburg will not lose competence and experience. This is exactly what happens every time we move businesses. I have not received an answer to that question. I would like guarantees from the Government that the activities will not be adversely affected.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-215	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ewa Thalén Finné, for the debate. We're not breaking up businesses. I already told you. We want to build on the extensive expertise that exists in Sweden in the field of gender equality. But we also need to take in knowledge that we have come to the end of the road when it comes to working with gender equality policy in this fragmented way. Sometimes you have to take the impression of it and control it in a more professional way. I intend to do so. My goal is to improve the lives of people. The directives of the Committee of Inquiry say that the skills and work already done should be used. It will build and strengthen gender equality in all areas including violence against women.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-217	Mr President, I would like to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me what considerations lie behind my decision and the government's decision to review the state operation of Gotland traffic. I would like to make it clear at the outset that ferry services are an essential requirement for Gotland's transport supply. For both people and business, ferry services are central. It is of great importance that ferry services to and from Gotland continue to provide good accessibility and that the traffic solution is both long-term, stable and environmentally sustainable and helps to create growth, quality of life and well-being. The Swedish Transport Administration is responsible for the state's agreement on liner shipping to Gotland. In 2014, under the alliance government, the current agreement was signed between Trafikverket and Destination Gotland AB on Gotlandstrafiken from 2017 to 2027. In the run-up to this procurement, the Swedish Transport Administration's goal was to create good quality traffic that is environmentally and economically sustainable. The issue of state ownership of tonnage was already raised in connection with the latest procurement under the alliance government. On the other hand, regardless of who owns the tonnage, it has not been possible for the State to operate the traffic. There are currently no new decisions on the next contract period, but the government is keen that ferry services will continue to be of high quality and cost-effective. For the government, it is important that ferry services to and from Gotland are of good quality and have a sufficient supply. The State shall pay no more in subsidy than is necessary. The government will analyse the issue widely in good time for future procurements and make an overall assessment.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-221	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to the Government for your answer. Ferry traffic to Gotland is crucial for the whole island's well-being and development. All the food we don't produce ourselves comes with the ferry. The tourist season, which is linked to one of our biggest industries, is completely dependent on the ferry's capacity to transport large quantities of people. Add to that that the ferry is a cheaper way to get to the island for the one who spends the week than the flight. It's just one way. In the other direction we export everything from egg and potato salad to 4G antennas and wood pulp. In that sense, ferry traffic is really our highway. It is good that as a Gotlander you have a reduced price to get over to the mainland. Together with the flight to both Bromma and Arlanda, ferry traffic is an important lifeline for Gotland. With regular tours to both Nynäshamn and Oskarshamn and with experiments to Västervik this summer, Gotland is connected with the rest of Sweden. When it comes to the procurement of ferry services in the future, we noticed in the previous procurement that it is important that it is not characterized or sunken by uncertainty. For got länningar this is fundamental: Trafiken should be punctual, fast and at a reasonable price. Just as the Government mentions in its interpellation response, the right focus is high quality and cost-effectiveness. It's good when you get more bids than one. If you just get a bid, it'll be a monopoly-like position. Then it is difficult to estimate whether or not you pay the right price. It is always good that the government makes its own calculation in order to avoid the subsidy cost running away. In the previous procurement, there was not only one shipping company. There was a shipping company at the end of the contract. But for quite a long time there was also another, which fell a little on the goal line when it had too bad backing from its bank in the country the shipping company came from. As I understand the interpellation response, nothing is really new. The State shall count but not take over the operation of the traffic. It's the same tonnage reasoning they've had even under the alliance government, business as usual. My only control question is whether it is correctly understood.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-227	Mr President, I would like to If you are going to write an interpellation, it can sometimes be easier if you read the whole article and not just the title. I have not proposed that traffic be operated under government control. What I have said, on the other hand, is that when you are in a situation where you only receive one tender, the very point of contracting in competition is that there is no competition. In such a situation, I think it is reasonable to look at whether the state should own the tonnage and be able to buy up traffic with lower thresholds for more people to bid. When the interpellation was asked, it was easy to ask yourself whether the Moderates think it is more important that tonnage is owned privately than that one can have both for taxpayers cost-effective and for the Gotlanders efficient traffic between Gotland and the mainland. It was a bit difficult to figure out how the criticism could be interpreted. It is quite clear that we think it is reasonable for us to look at this. For the next stage, for the next procurement, the investigation should have been carried out in good time. If one then concludes that it is more beneficial both for taxpayers and for good accessibility for Gotland, one should proceed with such a proposal, i.e. to consider owning tonnage under government control. I hope we can agree on that.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-230	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for that answer and clarification. What runs behind the interpellation is not an attempt to criticise the government. Rather, it is my way of trying to avoid uncertainty in the forthcoming procurement. We had thousands of people demonstrating in the last procurement because of misunderstandings. Then I think it is important to clarify this when there is a move ten years before the end of the procurement procedure and that we do not let it be sunken down by uncertainty again this time. Otherwise, I have received an answer to my interpellation. I can pass on the time for my next interventions to the other speakers so that the debate is a little easier. I would like to thank the Minister for a good debate and clarification and wish him a pleasant summer. I guess there'll be some press clippings about the trains and SJ. In between, I recommend the hammock and a good book, perhaps the latest by Fredrik Reinfeldt who came now a few months ago.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-233	Mr President, I would like to It was an interesting interpellation debate. Perhaps it would have been easier to read the article. I think the answer would have been there. But it is always nice to stand in Parliament the week after midsummer and talk about Gotlandstrafik. I also wish the honourable Member a pleasant summer with a lot of time in the hammock. The trains hope we'll walk like rails all summer.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-234	Mr President, I would like to This will be an even shorter interpellation debate because the interpeller is not in place. However, I will read the answer. Erik Ottoson has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to make public transport passengers easier to plan and pay for their entire journey even if several different operators carry out different parts of the journey. Furthermore, Erik Ottoson has asked me how I intend to proceed with my promise to do what is necessary for the industry to work for common ticketing and payment solutions as well as common travel planners for travellers. Erik Ottoson has also asked me whether I and the Government intend to take on board the proposal put forward in the interpellation to make it mandatory for all public transport operators to show their competitors' departures in their respective travel planners and to provide ticket sales for these departures. As Erik Ottoson already mentioned in the interpellation, we discussed this at the end of January last year. Then I mentioned the internal investigation that was presented in 2015 and noted that there is a development with industry-wide initiatives and that there is an established independent sales channel for public transport trips – resrobot.se. Through this portal, travellers can plan trips and buy tickets for public transport throughout Sweden. I also noted that it takes time to change familiar patterns and that a number of travellers still turn to the already well-known sales channels. However, the Government has taken a number of initiatives in this area, several of which are part of the Government's cooperation programme Next Generation Travel and Transport. Several of the initiatives aim to develop and modernise public transport for the new concept of mobility as a service, also known as combined mobility. A national roadmap for combined mobility has been developed to support the emergence of combined mobility. Linked to the Roadmap, there is also a project funded by Vinnova, among others, to coordinate, stimulate and monitor the implementation of the first period of the Roadmap until 2020. A further initiative initiated within the collaboration programme is about mobility as a service outside large cities and joins the government commission on public transport in rural areas that the National Road and Transport Research Institute will report back later this autumn. The European Commission decided on 31 May this year on the regulation on the provision of EU-wide multimodal travel information services. This means that any information linked d to travel should be easily accessible to everyone, both for travellers and for third-party developers, within a few years. Sweden is at the forefront and already has much of the information available as open data. In addition, rapid technology development is taking place with mobile phone apps both for information and for purchase. New payment solutions such as the Swedish innovations Swish and Izettle also simplify the purchase and payment of tickets. I think the future looks bright and intend to follow the issue. I do not rule out taking further action in the long term if the issue of reservation and payment systems persists as an obstacle to the choice of public transport operators by travellers. The government does not currently intend to make it mandatory for all public transport operators to display their competitors' departures in their respective travel planners or to provide ticket sales for these departures.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-243	Mr President, I would like to Jenny Petersson has asked me: The division of responsibilities between the state and county councils is clear in terms of health care. The priorities to be made on the basis of the Health Act are the responsibility of the principals. This is the reason why there are few national strategies to deal with individual disease diagnosis. The Government has taken measures to support the county councils in reducing hepatitis C prevalence, including through the state's agreement on reimbursement for pharmaceutical benefits contributing SEK 882 million for hepatitis C drugs only for 2016. This represents more than 70% of the estimated cost of these medicines. The legislative changes that have been made to facilitate the introduction of syringe exchange programmes are also expected to play a major role in reducing the incidence of hepatitis C. Hepatitis C is one of the challenges that county councils have to address in their area of responsibility. The availability of the medicines in question offers a new opportunity to respond to the disease. Landstingen has created a model for the introduction of new medicines – a so-called nationally organised introduction. The aim is to achieve cost-effective and efficient use of new medicines for all patients across the country. Thanks to this coordinated and innovative process, Sweden managed to become the country in Europe that was the earliest and most extensive in the introduction of the new medicines. The new medicines mean that a previous chronic disease is now possible to treat so effectively that one can be declared healthy. 2,196 patients have been treated in 2015 and 2,442 patients have been treated in 2016. There have been new medicines in recent years, which means that there are now more options to treat with. The duration of treatment has also been shortened in some cases. Developments on the drug side should lead to lower treatment costs, which may lead to health benefits in treating more groups infected with hepatitis C. Landstingen has a great responsibility to take on board the knowledge available to provide effective and equal care. How county councils are to act on infectious diseases, such as hepatitis C, is governed by the Disease Protection Act and the Health Care Act. Responsible authorities also provide guidance that has a bearing on how to reduce the incidence of hepatitis C. This applies, for example, to the Swedish Medical Products Agency, which has recommendations for drug treatment, and the Swedish Public Health Agency, which publishes information about hepatitis C regarding its occurrence and pathogens.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-248	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Annika Strandhäll! I put the interpellation on the grounds that the government had given a mission to the Public Health Authority to review the national strategy against HIV/AIDS and certain other infectious diseases, including hepatitis C. The mission was debriefed, and I thought the debriefing that was done was substandard. Today, some 40,000 Swedes carry hepatitis C. Every year another 2,000 Swedes are diagnosed. In 2014, according to the latest figure I have found, 180 Swedes died as a result of the disease. Over time, it develops, among other things, cirrhosis of the liver, liver failure and liver cancer if you go with the disease without getting treatment on time. In her answer, Annika Strandhäll points out that people have been treated in Sweden. In 2015 there were 2,196 people, and in 2016 there were 2,442 people, which is an increase. I am pleased that this effort has been made from the state to the county councils where medicines are subsidised. It's amazing! However, you do not need to be a mathematician to realise that the rate of treatment needs to be increased if the disease is to be eliminated. The health economic benefits referred to by the Minister will not be achieved with the policy being pursued today. In addition, TLV has decided that not all patient groups should have access to the new, effective treatment available today. I am not going to go into the different fibrosis stages, but not everyone can get access to the treatment. That's wrong. Another point that I highlighted in my text when I wrote the interpellation is that in May 2016 the WHO adopted a new strategy calling on governments around the world to work out national elimination strategies to combat hepatitis C. This was something that Sweden supported, and many countries in Europe have developed their own national strategies in line with the recommendations of the WHO – but not Sweden, and I have pointed this out in several written questions, in the interpellation and now also here in this debate. It is true, as the Minister says in his reply, that there are few national strategies for individual disease diagnosis, but there are such, and there are also recommendations that should be followed – especially a country like Sweden where you want equal health care. I stand by my questions: what are the reasons why we do not have a national strategy of this kind against hepatitis C, which is in line with the WHO recommendations? And why do Sweden and the government choose not to open up for treatment of all patients?
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-255	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jenny Petersson, for your very strong commitment to a very important issue! It is important not least for all those affected. Some 45 000 people in Sweden today live with hepatitis C. As I said initially in my answer, we have another way of dealing with these questions in Sweden. The order we have with our county councils' independent responsibility means, as I said, that we have very few national strategies – thus not saying that we in Sweden do not have an effective way of addressing the issue of hepatitis C. As Jenny Petersson points out, the new drugs that have come in recent years are completely revolutionary and represent a complete paradigm shift in the treatment of hepatitis C. This means that treatment, which, in contrast to the past, has relatively few side effects, can be completely declared healthy. At the same time, this is not a vaccine, but a treatment and a risk of re-infection if you do not work at the same time with prevention and reducing risk behaviour. In fact, we have spent a total of 2.5 billion on subsidising these drugs against hepatitis C from the state via the pharmaceutical subsidy since 2014. To say that the government is not making great efforts to counter this trend is, in fact, directly wrong. In addition, it must also be added that the decisions now taken on more syringe exchange programmes are also expected to have a major impact, not least in order to do what is perhaps most important, namely to prevent the spread of infection among people with injecting drug use. The advantage of these new medicines and treatment methods is that they also appear to be significantly shorter treatment periods, which means that, in the long term, one can also see a health economic opportunity to actually include more. With regard to the orderly introduction of these new medicines, it was initially a temporary benefit. D u was a little careful to use those words, Jenny Petersson, but from the beginning only F3 and F4 groups were included. The benefit is now granted permanently, and since July 2015 F2 groups are also included. There are therefore more people today who are covered by the possibility of access to this treatment. I feel an enormous respect for the county councils' independent responsibility in making the priorities and assessments that they consider appropriate based on the conditions prevailing within the respective county councils. However, this should not be taken as revenue because the Swedish Government is not fully prepared to contribute to more people being treated with this medicine and to the effective fight against hepatitis C.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-262	Mr President, I would like to I hope that my previous speech was not interpreted as saying that the government is doing nothing, because I pointed out, among other things, that the government is supporting the reduction of hepatitis C in the reimbursement of pharmaceutical benefits and that it is thus contributing. I think that's great, but I said the government doesn't make enough, and it's a huge difference. I think we can do much more in this area – hence my written questions earlier and this debate today. This also applies to syringe exchange programmes and to the fact that much more can be done there. Let me tell you, we're not doing enough. Among other things, the Minister himself mentioned the various fibrosis stages, and we can do much more so that all patient groups have access to these effective treatments that the Minister is talking about. Today, many people spread the disease and are not reached by the treatment. So we are not doing enough there today. The health economic benefits that I mentioned are not achieved today because not everyone can get to the right treatment. It is harmful to the individual who develops, for example, cirrhosis of the liver or liver failure. Those who go with the disease for a very long time often develop liver cancer. 180 Swedes died as a result of the disease in 2014. You can do a lot more. In the syringe exchange programmes, I definitely believe that more can be done with regard to the different categories of patients. You can improve screening, diagnosis, treatment and so on. It is also possible to work more closely together between infection clinics, psychiatry, correctional services, social authorities and other actors. It can be optimised and done much better. I visited Iceland, which is considerably smaller and has fewer hepatitis C victims, this spring, where there is a completely different collaboration and outreach. They work in a different way in prison, psychiatry and infection clinics to treat hepatitis C in LARO units and syringe exchanges. Much can be done. The important thing is that an infection doctor is present in these contexts in order to achieve the positive effect. I think that the government is doing a lot in terms of pharmaceutical subsidies, but I also think that it should be opened up to more people, that more can be made more efficient and that more can be done to achieve greater health economic benefits than today.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-268	Mr President, I would like to It is always incredibly interesting to take advantage of other good examples of how to do things even better. It is also important to say on my part that one can of course always develop a job and improve it. When you get to grips with this issue, which I have had the opportunity to do a little more in depth, it is extremely gratifying to see the development that has taken place on the pharmaceutical side. This means that in the long term we will be able to see more and more people who even have rather advanced hepatitis C that will be able to be treated and declared healthy. In addition, it is interesting to follow how treatment periods may be shortened and what this may have for health economic effects that allow us to broaden these treatments to include even more people in the long term. There is no doubt that what is by far the most effective thing is to prevent the occurrence of hepatitis C to the greatest extent possible, which is why measures aimed at limiting and preventing the spread of infection are A and O. Therefore, it will also be interesting to see what the possibility of more syringe exchanges and the amended legislation will bring about improvements for these groups. I am also thinking of what you, Jenny Petersson, mentioned in your first post, where you touched on the mission that the government gave to the Public Health Agency and which was presented on 1 March 2017. It was primarily intended to update the national strategy on HIV and AIDS, but also to draw attention to other blood diseases. However, it is important to point out that it was a work focusing mainly on HIV response. The update is now open for consultation, and any comments must have been received by 30 June. Of course, we will have to follow the comments that have been made there and make an evaluation of what might need to be done further. Then it's about collaboration in different ways, which you also touched on in your post, Jenny Petersson. In the process known as the nationally organised introduction of new medicines, all county councils, several authorities and pharmaceutical companies are now working together in a joint process to ensure that we have an adequate, good and balanced introduction of the new medicines in every way.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-275	Mr President, I would like to Let me briefly say something about the report released by the Public Health Authority. In several places the report deals with the problem of hepatitis C, but hardly any concrete measures are proposed to combat the virus, although hepatitis C is six times more common than HIV. Now that we know that this can cause so much cost both to the individual and to society, I think that important analyses and proposals were lacking. WHO has made recommendations to eliminate hepatitis C, but there was no elimination plan. I think it would be appropriate for Sweden to develop a national strategy against hepatitis C in accordance with those recommendations. Now I leave the report myself and move on to the new medicines. I also think that the new medicines are amazing, regardless of the disease they apply. They have led to an improvement in treatment and side effects, and they have a much better effect. In eight to twelve weeks you can be free of hepatitis C. But what I want is for this to be opened up to more patients, so that they can have access to this effective treatment. So there is a need for a national strategy, and there is a need to open up drug treatment to more people.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-278	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jenny Petersson, for this interpellation debate! It has been interesting, and I am no stranger to constantly working for improvement and development. At the same time, we see that, not least on the pharmaceutical side, there is a revolution at the moment in terms of hepatitis C. We can now ensure, in a responsible way, that these medicines are fully introduced on a broad front in Sweden and take this step by step. In particular, the county councils have an incredibly important responsibility. We have also submitted a proposal to Parliament on amended legislation and more syringe exchange programmes. We have to follow the impact of this. I am also sure that we fully agree that the most important thing is to prevent the emergence in different ways – to work with prevention and reduce the spread of infection, so that fewer people are exposed. Thank you for a very good debate! I take on board the views expressed here and am also pleased that we now see that there are more effective treatment options for patients with hepatitis C.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-280	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Riazat has asked me what I intend to do to ensure that all children, regardless of the size of their parents' wallet, will be able to participate in all the activities organised within the Swedish school. The principle of free education in comprehensive schools and equivalent forms of education in compulsory education is one of the cornerstones of Swedish education policy. The right to an equivalent quality education must never depend on the economic conditions of an individual. The Education Act states that education must be free of charge. Students must have access free of charge to books and other learning tools needed for an up-to-date education and be offered nutritious school meals. However, in individual cases during a school year, in connection with school trips and similar activities, there may be costs to be reimbursed by guardians on a voluntary basis. Such activities should be open to all students. Amounts which individually may be considered insignificant may together be contrary to the provisions of a free school. If the cost is regularly recurring, it can be stressful for a household with a weak economy. It is therefore necessary for the school to carefully consider when and how often this opportunity should be used. The School Inspectorate may intervene against possible infringements within the framework of its supervisory responsibilities.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-284	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin, for the answer to my interpellation! I believe that I and Gustav Fridolin and many in this House agree that the school should be free of charge. We agree on which standards should apply when it comes to the freedom of charge. At the same time, we know – either you have memories of when you went to school not so long ago, or you have children at school or friends whose children go to school – that this is not really being followed. Although the legislation allows the School Inspectorate to check how the fees are charged, and even if the basic principle is free of charge within the school, we know that there are children who are excluded from, for example, school trips because they cannot afford to pay for them. When I was in school, I had classmates who almost never brought lunches when they were expected to bring them to school. That is still the case today. Who, then, are the students most affected by such legislation, and who are the parents? Of course, it is primarily a matter of single parents who do not have permanent employment or secure conditions. It's about working-class children. It is about children who have recently come to Sweden and who simply do not have the opportunity to take with them what is expected or contribute financially to school trips and other things. Yes, the school inspectorate has a responsibility here. But how many schools have been criticized for doing so? You can compare with how many schools we know use these methods. If the school principle and the norm are to be free of charge, it should be totally free of charge. It is the only way to have an equal school for all children. If we start to say that fees may occur on an occasional basis, that it is voluntary and that at the same time it should be open to all children, it is something that does not make sense. The fact that you have any fees means excluding certain children. I know that schools handle this differently. Some schools take great account of this and interpret the legislation as the Minister for Education does. We also know that there are schools that do not do that. They allow some students to go to Trysil to ski while others are at home. Then something needs to change, I mean. This is why legislation needs to be tightened up. Does the Minister of Education intend to make any changes in order to make it clearer that we have a fee-free in the Swedish school?
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-292	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Daniel Riazat, for both the question and the debate! I recognize the picture, as you describe it. There is basically a conflict of objectives that is why the balances are made as they are in the school law. On the one hand, a school should be able to take the students to a museum or theatre quite easily. Then you want those who have a public transport card to bring it from home, and then you pay for the others without anything strange for the school. On the other hand, it is about the importance of no pupils being singled out in any context because they do not have the same financial opportunities or parents that can stand up in the way that the school indirectly demands. Then the balance that has been struck in the school law has been: Yes, but occasionally there may be something in school that means, for example, that you need a ticket. But that must not mean that the person who is unable to contribute must not come along. It's kind of the principle. I say in my answer that such activities should be open to all students. This applies to both the short trip to the theatre and the longer school trip. Then it shouldn't be that a student who can't pay isn't allowed to come. That's how the school law is written. I listen to this discussion and hear Daniel Riazats's objections to the law being this way. There are two things I see I could do in the future. One is to meet the municipalities that have chosen to go further than the school law. There are those who have said: In our municipality we take one more step, and here we shall apply to total duty-free. It has also begun to study what there are hidden fees. There are things that happen that can actually mean a cost that no one has thought about– you mention that you should bring your lunch or fruit. It's about hearing: how has it worked? Has this meant that it has been more difficult for teachers to organise the theatre visit, or have other ways been found so that it is still easy to do what still provides an extra opportunity for the educational part of the school? The second is that I am prepared to discuss with the School Inspectorate what they have seen in their supervision of schools based on this. There are two initiatives I can take on the basis that this issue has been raised. It is partly about discussing with the municipalities that have chosen to go further than the school law today, and also about bringing up with the School Inspectorate what they have seen in their supervision.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-298	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Minister of Education, for that answer. As I said, we agree on the basic principle of this. I am pleased that the Minister for Education is open to making any visible the problems that may arise. I would like to say to the Minister for Education that I think it would be good if, together, on a broader front in Parliament, we took up the issue in order to bring about a change. We may all have to check out what it looks like in our municipalities and where we are involved in steering etc. In the end, however, it is the legislation of the Riksdag and the Government that is affecting the situation. I would like to comment on this with individual cases. As the Minister of Education himself says in his reply and as I have written in the interpellation, isolated cases can be considered to be something very small, that once a year you should send something or that you have to pay 100 SEK for your child to go somewhere. At the same time, the single fee, as the Minister for Education himself said, can be too large a sum for many parents – single, unemployed, etc. – if they have several children who may even go to different schools. It will also be much more difficult for the Swedish School Inspectorate to evaluate how it has affected the parent when the children do not go to the same school. You can't see it in a context. One can imagine a parent who has three children who all need to bring food bags and fruit, who need to pay any fee during the winter to travel away or pay any fee in the summer to go to a museum or other. It can be something that many parents cannot cope with. Over the past 20 years, income gaps in Sweden have increased quite substantially. We see that the richer have withdrawn while those at the bottom of the economic scale have got tougher. This, even if it may be considered as isolated cases, becomes a major issue. You don't want your children to feel left out or different in school. All parents want to give their children good opportunities and tools and everything you can to make it. I therefore believe that we must enable all parents, regardless of their financial status, to do so. I am very pleased that the Minister for Education is raising the issue of discussing this with municipalities. As I said, the Left Party is open to have a broader discussion here in Parliament about what we should do to ensure that it is free of charge. The primary school is compulsory, and we say that some activities are voluntary. If they're arranged by the school, I think they're school activities. Thus, as the Minister for Education said earlier, it should not be the case that some are excluded. But the law needs to be reviewed precisely because some are excluded – this is done by giving them options that may not be as fun or attractive as the alternatives for the other students.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-303	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to the larger activities, there are far better ways than asking parents to pay. You can work together in a class. You can simply do things together, which can also sometimes be used in teaching. You can sell bread or whatever it is. Then you can raise money and thereby count on what it means to run the small movement. I often think that you go further than what you do if you let it be something that is made up alongside. With the balance that exists in the law today, there must not be the identification of a student who has parents who cannot contribute in the same way as others. For example, it should not be allowed to go through on class councils who have paid and who have not. The general provisions of the Education Act, which are about children being treated equally, mean that one should not have a specific indication and that one should build a safe working environment. The rules are probably in place to deal with the target conflict. In practice, the problems arise when this lands on the knees of teachers, principals and engaged parents. I think there is every reason to look at what has been done in the municipalities that have gone a little further than the law today. I'm prepared to meet them and see what evaluations have been made there.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-306	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for Education once again. We don't have a bad regulatory framework. However, we have a regulatory framework that is not interpreted by a lot of municipalities as I and the Minister for Education want to interpret it. The question then arises: How long will it take for the interpretation to take place correctly, and when will a change be needed? I look forward to hearing more from the Minister for Education on this issue and that we can move forward. I agree with the Minister for Education that this can be arranged much better, with sales etc. But there are risks there too. There are students who come from more wealthy families and who find it much easier to go to their neighbors and sell cookies or tickets than I had when I was growing up in my area. Of course, it also affects. That is why I believe that the legislation must look in such a way that this should not depend on how good the students are on sales or what their parents' wallet looks like. But I think that we are basically in agreement and that we can move on with the issue.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-309	Mr President, I would like to I note that doing things as a class can often be a good way to achieve cohesion and meet the general requirements of the School Act to build safe school environments, where everyone can participate on equal terms.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-310	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Riazat has asked me whether I intend to take any steps to distinguish between pupils' individual influence and pupils' right to influence through student associations in the School Act. It is the teacher who leads and is responsible for teaching. The Education Act gives all pupils a right to influence teaching, the school environment and activities in general. This refers to both the influence that students should have as a group and collective as well as the influence that belongs to each individual. The law further states that there should be one or more forums for consultation with students. The curriculum also gives students the right to individual influence. It states, among other things, that everyone who works in school should be responsible for ensuring that all students have a real influence on working methods, forms of work and the content of teaching, and that this influence increases with increasing age and maturity. The Vice-Chancellor also has a special responsibility for the development of the school's forms of work in order to promote active pupil influence. Thus, the Rules of the School Act and the curriculum's wording already show a distinction between pupils' right to individual influence and influence as a group and collective. Within the framework of regular supervision, the State's school inspection checks whether teachers ensure that pupils have a real influence on working methods, forms of work and the content of teaching. Against this background, I do not currently see any need to initiate a change in legislation. Having said that, of course, I look forward to the student organisations' referrals to the School Commission's final report, where, of course, they have the opportunity to point out any need for relevant clarifications.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-315	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer to this interpellation too! In the past, I have also put forward a motion on this issue on the basis of what the student organisations themselves pointed out as a problem with today's legislation and how it actually hits schools. This is something that is affected in Chapter 4. The school law, and what we have seen when we have looked at it together with, among other things, Sweden's Students' Unions, is that there is a problem because there is no distinction between students' individual influence and student associations. Also in the case of student associations, legislation is out of date, partly because of the confusion between the organisation in the form of student councils and student unions – student unions are not mentioned in today's legislation. In view of this, I will also have an interpellation debate with Minister Anna Ekström a little later today. Students' individual influence, I mean, is as important as it is with student organization, i.e. having larger student associations. It is also important that the principals are given a tool to deal with this situation and not to direct it in a way that only gives the impression that the students have a say. Rather, they should be given the tools to enable students to feel involved in their organisation at school. If the Minister for Education now believes that this is already in the legislation, we could have a discussion on how to get the municipalities to implement it properly in order to comply with it. As I said, I have had a lot of talks with the student organisations, and there it is very clear what is going on: it is believed that in practice there is no distinction in legislation between the individual organisation of pupils and student associations.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-320	Mr President, I would like to Thank you also for this question, Daniel Riazat! I have also met student organisations and I know very well that you see this problem. I expect that this will be pointed out in the referral to the School Commission's final report, and then, of course, we will respond in the usual way. One thing I have said is that we sometimes have an overconfidence in the fact that changes in the law and in the concrete wording of the legislation should automatically give a requested change out at every school. In this case, I note that there is a distinction between the individual right to influence and what it means and the right to influence as students, jointly organised or in an association. This distinction does not take place in law, but it does take place in practice in the curriculum and is thus a responsibility for teachers and principals. In practice, therefore, I find it difficult to see how a change in the law would change the School Inspectorate's review of schools and the work of schools today, at least in this paragraph. On the other hand, I also see that a great deal of work may be needed, above all, to disseminate good examples. I know that there are times when conflicts arise and you think differently, and then it is important to establish what the law and the curriculum say. But quite often it is probably that you do not really know how to deal with these issues. The large national school development programme that we are now building up on work with security, studyo and how to work with values issues in school also, of course, contains questions about how we include and involve students, because we know that it is a very good tool to achieve the goals of security, studyo and a school that students feel ownership and leadership in. I therefore believe that such measures go beyond the concrete changes that can be made to a legal clause.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-326	Mr President, I would like to In part, I agree with the Minister for Education that there should be no over-reliance on legislation at all times. We have examples where the legislation has been in place but where it has nevertheless been wrongly interpreted by some municipalities. At the same time, I believe that the basic principle should be to have as clear legislation as possible on this issue. In this case, there is no text about it what I have read in the school law; it is in the curriculum, as the Minister for Education says. Then we have to ask ourselves how many municipalities do not follow the curriculum, given that one of the major student organisations in the country, with thousands of members in different schools, has drawn attention to this issue. We cannot see this as a single case, but rather, as the Minister for Education said, we need to pick up the good examples and see if they have done the good from the curriculum or whether they have listened to the student organisations or others who have worked in their schools and thus had a better climate for cooperation. The main reason why this issue is important to me is that we live in a country where many young people lack confidence in the future and do not feel that they can be involved in influencing, even if unemployment is falling slightly and although we in the Left Party, together with the government, have invested a great deal in welfare, work, etcetera. A very good start to be able to feel involved in the society that you grow up in, should be a part of and participate in developing is to be organized at your school. I believe that many of us who sit here in Parliament have been in our schools, and that is why it is important that we send the signal to all young people and children that they are involved and that they can be involved. In that case, interpretations of this kind, which to some extent stop developments, must simply not occur, but together we must ensure that it becomes as clear as possible so that all the principals and all the schools follow what is in the curriculum. If we do not do so, we must tackle it in a different way and perhaps clarify the legislation. I have nothing more to add but would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I believe that we can make progress on this issue as well.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-333	Mr President, I would like to The school is a workplace, and students should be able to influence their situation and their workplace together. This is important and a fundamental principle for all workplaces. At school, we are also prepared for working life thereafter. It is also important because it is a tool for achieving goals that the school strives for, both the goal, of course, that you have safe and well-functioning working environments – it is difficult to achieve that if you don't do it together with the students – and the knowledge goals. Students who feel involved and go to a school that they feel ownership over have a better commitment and a better motivation to also reach the knowledge goals in school. I'd be happy to discuss exactly what you're supposed to influence. I stated in my interpellation response, and it is an important sentence for me, that it is the teacher who leads and is responsible for teaching. That you can influence does not mean that I as a student can sit and choose or opt out parts of the syllabus and subject plan. The school has a special responsibility. It can sometimes be what you have the hardest for that you need to do the most. But that kind of discussion does not change the fundamentals of student influence having a value. That one should strive for that host to be realized in all schools I absolutely agree with Daniel Riazat about. Let me say something about why the distinction between individual influence and common influence is in the curriculum and not in school law. This is basically based on the fact that we have tried to keep the distinction that the school law contains organisational and more comprehensive provisions and that what is about the teaching practice, which is at issue here, is mainly in the curriculum. That's why. They do not have different governance effects on the school – both are reviewed by the School Inspectorate – but they are at different levels. One is horizontal, and the other is more practical in how things are to be carried out.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-337	Mr President, I would like to I have nothing more to add. I wish the Minister of Education and his family a happy summer.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-338	Mr President, I would like to I repeat it!
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-339	Mr President, I would like to Erik Ottoson has asked me whether I believe that the Digitalisation Council will meet the challenges pointed out by Erik Ottoson or whether I intend to take further steps to strengthen the Council's powers to actually come up with concrete policy proposals to promote digitalisation but also to address the challenges of digitalisation. Now Erik Ottoson does not seem to be here, but there is a great interest in the Digitalization Council. I'll keep going anyway. It may be that someone in this House is interested. The Government decided on 18 May 2017 on the strategy for a sustainable digitised Sweden – a digitalisation strategy. The strategy sets out the direction of the Government's digitisation policy. A sustainable digitised Sweden stands for long-termism where the added value of digitalisation is exploited and challenges along the way are addressed. A clear leadership is required where politics acts to improve the conditions for digitization of Sweden taking place in a way that increases societal benefit. In this way, development opportunities such as the Internet of Things, automation, artificial intelligence and the use of large amounts of data can be exploited. The implementation of the digitisation strategy and the Government's digitisation policy require continuous political commitment. National coordination, regulatory design and capacity to identify obstacles and actively relate to the objectives set are important aspects. Clear political and state leadership will therefore be crucial to create the necessary pressure for change. With the strategy, the entire government has undertaken to lead the transition. A Digitisation Council has been set up with the associated office function, in particular to support the implementation of the Strategy. One of the tasks of the Digitalisation Council is also to further develop efforts and make proposals for concrete measures. A coordinating government secretarial group also exists within the Government Office as the implementation of digitisation policy requires a horizontal approach across several policy areas. As is clear from what I have said, the Digitalisation Council has already been tasked with proposing concrete actions today. Therefore, I do not currently see the need to strengthen the powers of the Digitalisation Council.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-345	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Riazat has asked me whether I intend to take any steps to clarify the possibility of organising in student corps in the School Act. I would like to begin by stating that students have the right to influence their education and work environment. Student influence promotes students' ability to take responsibility and increases the desire to learn. It also strengthens the relationship between teachers and students and leads to greater acceptance of the decisions made. According to the School Act(2010:800) and the Working Environment Act(1997:1160), pupils have the right to formal democratic influence through student council representatives and student welfare representatives. A student safety representative shall represent the students in health and safety at work. The working environment is about both the physical and the psychosocial environment. For example, chemicals from chemistry education should be handled safely and the school should have a good preventive work against bullying. In 2015, the Government commissioned the National School Administration to develop and implement national school development programmes. In these, the agency offers teachers, principals and principals support in the work with, among other things, participation and influence. Teachers are given the opportunity to discuss what student influence and participation is and can be in teaching, how they can increase motivation and learning among all students and how they can behave in everyday life. In this way, teachers are given tools to create opportunities for participation and influence in teaching. Student councils and student unions can be organized in different ways. But the foundation is to create forms of student influence over education and work environment. Of Chapter 4 Sections 10 and 11 of the School Act state that pupils' representatives and other pupils must be given the opportunity to discuss issues of common interest during school hours. No distinction shall be made between a student who has been appointed as a student council representative and a student who has a different mandate to represent other students in matters relating to the training in order to receive the school leave required for the assignment or to be offered compensation for the instruction they miss as a result of the assignment. We're here to protect student influence. It is not just a question of students' opinions improving teaching or the working environment. There is also a great value in students' organization to learn how democratic decision-making works in practice. Together with the students' education, it creates the conditions for students to become active citizens in a democratic society.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-351	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking Anna Ekström for her reply. I also welcome the fact that I have put my first interpellation to the Minister for High School. I agree with much of what Anna Ekström has said. At the same time, we can see that in practice there is a problem when we talk to student organisations about just how the legislation is designed and what texts are in the legislation. In 2015, according to the Swedish Student Unions, approximately 55 per cent of upper secondary school students attended a school where there was a student union. 27 per cent of those students were also members of the student corps. At the schools where student unions are located, about half of the students are members of them. In addition, a report from Sweden's Students' Unions shows that 75 percent of the principals have high confidence in the student unions that exist at their schools. Despite this, the student corps is not mentioned in the legislation at all. On the other hand, there are student councils and student welfare representatives, as Anna Ekström mentioned. I was a student protection officer myself when I was in school. As I said earlier to the Minister for Education, I believe that many of us sitting in this Chamber in one way or another have also been involved in school. It was a good way for us to be more able to debate, to take initiatives and to be a part of change work at the workplace, at school and later in life. That is why, as Anna Ekström says, it is important to organise pupils. I see no disagreement between us as to whether it is important or not for students to organize themselves and for the principals to give students good tools to complete their student organization. However, as I mentioned earlier to Gustav Fridolin, it is a problem when the largest student organisation in upper secondary school, Sweden's Student Unions, is not mentioned in the legislation at all. Of course, you can have legislation that is in more general terms, where you do not identify individual organisations or forms of organisation. But in this case, it's in Chapter 4. The school law clearly about student councils and student welfare representatives, but not a word about student unions, that is not Sweden's Student Unions, but student unions as such. I wonder whether the Government intends in any way to review this, whether we could have discussions in the future on how we can prevent this and whether we could change this in a different way so that implementation towards the municipalities and the principals takes place more smoothly. Something needs to be done because we are not living in the same time as when this law was passed and these texts were written. Things have changed, and new forms of organization have been added. Then we must be up-to-date in this House too, I think, and change the legislation based on the time we live in. My question, as I said, is whether the Government intends to take any steps to ensure that student corps are also made visible in the School Act.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-359	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Daniel Riazat for this question. That is his first question to me – thank you especially for that! I am particularly happy about this issue because I think that student influence is an important thing and that the organisation of students is an important thing. Why is it that you might think so? Well, like Daniel Riazat and many other Members of this House, I have my own experience of what it can mean to be an elected representative, appointed representative, for the students or students with whom you are studying. Both my experience and the experiences I hear about when I'm out meeting both student union and student council representatives and principals and teachers give a strong impression that student influence is good because it strengthens the students' ability to take responsibility for their school. It strengthens the students in that way that they get a solid lesson in how to do when in a democratic job you are involved and take responsibility for your business, something that is incredibly important to have with you in further studies as well as in future working life and as active citizens of society. My experience is that it is often good for teaching. I rarely meet student representatives who want less education, who want a little calmer at school. Rather, the student representatives I meet testify that in their student work they are really working to strengthen the teaching and to ensure that they learn as much as possible. So I have a positive attitude to and I am really prepared to protect the influence of students. I note that the School Act has clear and proper rules on the importance of student influence and also safeguards student influence. There are also plenty of provisions to ensure that pupils receive the education they need in addition to a work with pupil influence. Does this mean that I am prepared to go immediately to Daniel Riazats's recipe, which he writes out here, namely to ensure in the legislation that students' groups are given a special status? No, I will not make such a promise here today. I think that the school law protects student influence, and I am prepared to protect the student influence in the continued work when I follow both what the Swedish National Agency for Education and the Swedish School Inspectorate and how the work develops in the school. However, there are no direct plans to change the legislation so that students' groups are specifically mentioned, which is what Mr Riazat has repeatedly asked for. I think there are things that are more important and more urgent to take care of in school.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-366	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister Anna Ekström! As I said, I believe that we are basically in agreement on the very view of organisation in general. It can well be said that both student organization and student organization and other types of peoples' movements, as I would almost like to call this, have had enormous significance for our country and its democracy and development. While I agree with the Government on the importance of this and on the fact that we have legislation that ensures students' right to organise and encourages students to organize themselves, I would like to make it clear that I am not the one who requires a special position for the student corps. It is the law that today separates two other forms of organisation, which I think is wrong. I think it is important to have student advice and student protection representatives. But I think that if we are not to separate some form of organisation, we must either remove the examples of how to organise ourselves, i.e. student councils and student welfare representatives, or add the form of organisation that is today the largest in the country's upper secondary schools. Speaking of that many of us have been involved, I think that many of us, having been involved as student representatives in school, were pissed that we were not allowed to be involved in deciding things that we wanted to be in charge of and felt that we could not change enough at school because many principals controlled the student organization quite hard. We simply did not have the opportunity to organize ourselves as we wanted. Or we felt that we had, and then the future for us has been very different. We are not the only ones in this country who have been organized, but many lost hope after this. Why did they do it? Well, I mean, you do it because you don't get visible enough and you don't get enough space in your student organization. So here we have an organisation which, not only for its own part, but also for future student unions or other student union organisations, raises an important issue: that a very large form of organisation is not included in the legislation. I understand that the Government cannot promise anything here today to change anything but not that it is not open to discussing this in the future, perhaps together with the student organisations and also the other parties here in Parliament to achieve a result where we can agree on what really applies. This is something that is not right when two forms of organisation are designated in the legislation, but the largest form of organisation is not included in the legislation. I believe that this means that it is the government that is in favour of differentiating forms of organisation, not the Left Party and I who have put the interpellation.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-373	Mr President, I would like to Pupils shall be entitled to pupil influence. The fact that student influence is clearly enshrined in the School Act is extremely important. It is important for students' ability to influence but also in a broader perspective for students' ability to develop into democratically responsible citizens and to ensure the quality of teaching and education in schools. What is important to me is that the student influence is secured and works in an effective and good way so that it strengthens the teaching and the students' development. For me, it is absolutely self-evident that school principals and other school officials should do what is stated in the school law and respect student influence regardless of what form it takes – student protection representatives, student union representation or student council representation. What is important to me is that this influence exists, that it is safe and that it is safe. If there was any evidence that the lack of self-regulation in the school law of precisely student union form led to a lack of influence, the pupils who choose to organise themselves in student corps were made more difficult to assert their right and led to less respect for the elected representatives of students as student union representatives – yes, of course, I would immediately look at it. But so far I have not seen that kind of evidence in my many contacts with both student corps and student councils and with various representatives of schools. Nor have I heard any such evidence in this debate. I am fond of the structure we have in our school – that the student influence is regulated in the form that it should exist but that it is up to the students themselves to decide in what way they should be represented and what questions they want to pursue. I really want to safeguard the autonomy of student unions and councils to represent their members. Should there be any evidence to suggest that the absence of the word student corps in the legal text leads to concern, I will immediately look at this. But as long as there is no such evidence, I will continue to protect the influence of students, no matter what forms they take.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-379	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. I have also written a motion on this after discussions with student unions and student organisations, in this case mainly Sweden's Student Unions, and I think that those who are organized in these student unions and have themselves expressed the problem have pretty good knowledge of what it looks like at the schools where they find it difficult to organize themselves because of the legislation. I cannot, of course, mention a few percentages in terms of the number of schools where you have had it tough and the number of schools where you have not had it, but you have probably written articles and other things about it and also presented it to the Government because the problem exists. Although the Government can't promise anything, I mean that the least the Government could do is promise to look into this in the future and follow the development of student organization in general to see if anything needs to change in the future – even if the Government today doesn't have that picture. Otherwise, I would like to wish the Minister and his family a pleasant summer!
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-382	Mr President, I would like to I can assure Daniel Riazat that this is an issue I do not take lightly. I think that student influence is very important for the reasons I have explained here. I will, of course, keep an eye on this issue. I, too, have been diligently courted by the skilful representatives of the Swedish Students' Unions, and if I get any evidence that this is a practical problem that reduces the possibilities for influence, I will of course not let it be. I'm, like Daniel Riazat, looking to protect student influence. Should it be the case that this type of legislative change is needed, we should not be afraid to do it. But until we have such evidence, I think we should wait to use the legislative weapon, which is actually among the heaviest in the arsenal. We will ensure student influence, and we will do so by ensuring that all students have a good influence, regardless of whether they are represented through student unions, student councils or the important student protection representatives. We will certainly ensure that our principals and teachers have good tools to take advantage of the student influence that can contribute to better teaching and education. I would like to thank Daniel Riazat for this issue, which is urgent and important. It is about student influence, which actually has a great significance. I would also like to thank Daniel Riazat and his loved ones for their good cooperation during my first short working year in Parliament!
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-386	Mr President, I would like to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me what further efforts I and the government consider possible to meet and counteract mental illness in upper secondary school. Work to promote health and combat abuse, harassment and other vulnerability at school is of the utmost importance. The development and access to pupil health is central to promoting the well-being of students and creating a good learning environment. In order to increase average staff density in pupil health and increase access to special pedagogy support in school, the Government decided in May 2016 on a state grant regulation for, among other things, staff enhancements in pupil health. Thanks to the state grant, nearly 700 more people had been employed in pupil health in autumn 2016. These include school doctors, school psychologists, school curators and teachers with special pedagogy skills. The Government has also commissioned the National Agency for Education to carry out efforts to improve the prevention and promotion of pupil health in order to support students' development towards the goals of education. The Swedish National Agency for Education has set up a grant to support the principals in their work on health-promoting school development in order to increase goal fulfilment. Furthermore, the Government has commissioned the National Agency for Education to develop and implement national school development programmes. One of the programs concerns student health. The aim of the programme is to create better conditions to work both health promotion and prevention to support students in their learning and health in the development towards the goals of the education. The aim is to strengthen the work to provide a learning environment that promotes development, learning and physical and mental health. All students need to attend upper secondary education that prepares for adult life. A completed upper secondary education is today a watershed in the labour market. Then it is also important that upper secondary education is perceived as attractive and that the pupils receive an education they choose based on their interests and prospects to continue to study or establish themselves in the labour market. Teaching must be seen as motivating and of good quality. In March 2015, the Government commissioned a special investigator to analyse and propose measures for all young people to start and complete upper secondary education, thereby acquiring the skills needed both in working life and for further studies. The mandate included a review of the provisions on support measures in upper secondary school. The study submitted its proposals in October 2016 in the report A high school education for all – measures for all young people to start and complete upper secondary education. The proposals have been reviewed and are currently being prepared within the Government Office. The government has therefore already taken a number of measures to prevent and deal with mental illness at school, and our work on this important issue continues.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-392	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the full answer! When we talk about mental health and ill health, it is important to state clearly that this is a very broad concept. It includes everything from depression and anxiety, which are natural reactions to things that happen in everyday life, to bipolar disorder and other psychiatric and neuropsychiatric conditions. In between, in the large grey area, there is a wide range of treatments of different types and degrees. The mental illness we often talk about when we talk about upper secondary school is of the first kind; it is the one that often affects young people in upper secondary school. You feel anxiety, anxiety, and depression for various reasons. It may be that a relationship has not gone as planned, that you do not reach the results that are expected or that you yourself expected or that you feel powerless and careless for the future. These simpler forms of mental illness can often be countered by quite simple methods. But things can also get worse if you avoid treating or even suppressing these feelings. Then it can get worse quite a lot. If they are not due to a physical illness, they can be countered with routines and physical activity. It means a lot only that you sleep and eat at regular times and have physical activity a few times a week. These are tips that go a long way – that you start to take control of your own daily rhythm and your own feeling. It gives an early push and the power to continue. Mr President, I would like to It is good if such information can benefit all pupils in school and also be incorporated into the education. Today, mental health is part of high school sport, and I think that is a good thing. Unfortunately, however, many still feel powerlessness, and mental illness is increasing. Many feel a lack of motivation in class. And there is, as I have explained in my interpellational text, a strong correlation between mental illness and early school drop-out. Perhaps teachers today are not always so clear at the beginning of courses as to what applies and what is expected. This creates uncertainty that gets stuck, and it will then be difficult to save for the students as the grade approaches. Here it should be said that the government has launched several initiatives, which the Government also mentions. I hope that they will come out well and that they will be evaluated so that we can make more of what works. But I also wonder if it is not time for the government to set a target for mental illness in school and high school. For example, it could be that mental illness should stop increasing by 2020, that it should be halved by 2030, or that a zero vision should be set that is more long-term than that. How does the Government view such proposals, that is to say, that we are beginning to set a target for getting out of this? We have had a negative development since the 1990s.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-403	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking Jesper Skalberg Karlsson for the issue and for drawing attention to this very important issue, which is extremely important in the internal work of schools and in the lives of many people. It is important not only for the young people attending school but also for a wide range of relatives and friends around them. We seem to agree that the increasing mental illness in not least upper secondary school is something that is worrying and worth taking very seriously. There are many good reasons to be concerned. We can also agree that we do not have great measuring instruments to measure mental illness. The figures found in various forms of evaluations and statistical reviews are often and to a large extent based on pupils' own data on perceived health. These tasks are worth taking very seriously, but they are, of course, also influenced by the spirit of time and the perception that exists among students and society in general of what mental health and mental illness are. Having said that, we agree that this issue is important. The perceived mental illness is increasing in an alarming way, not least among girls. We see that there is a strong connection between mental illness and early school drop-outs. We know, as we look a little bit in the future, that there is a very strong connection between mental illness and the existence of being a so-called young person who is neither working nor studying. This is the effect that mental illness can have in the form of defections and the like. It can follow a young person for many years, even after studying. We also know that there is a strong link between mental health and mental illness on the one hand and pupils' results on the other. A large and extensive study from the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences a few years ago pointed out this very clearly. We also see that in international research on the organisation of schools and the results of schools, the issue of the well-being and well-being of students is taking an increasing place. I therefore welcome the fact that Jesper Skalberg Karlsson raises this question. I think it is very important that we follow the efforts that are now being made and are holding them, so that the efforts can be part of the school's internal work and be part of the school's self-evident work in ensuring that the students reach the goals and develop as they should in upper secondary school. Jesper Skalberg Karlsson also asks a direct question if it would be appropriate to set a target for mental illness, or rather for mental health, I suppose he means. There's something I can't answer straightaway. Setting such objectives requires many considerations in terms of how such an objective would be formulated. But I'll be happy to think about it while I eat my strawberries this summer and think about the development of upper secondary school. The issue of mental health among our high school students is very important from so many different points of view.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-410	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for both the answer and the promise to give more thought to the question. In addition to being difficult to measure mental illness, it is also difficult to know exactly where it comes from, where it originates from. We can look at those who need medication and who really have neuropsychiatric conditions. But when we look at the 90's and early 00's, we don't really know why so many feel unhappy and why it has become so. One could imagine, if one is very basic or rudimentary, that happiness is the difference between expectation and outcome. If you have too high expectations, it almost doesn't matter how good the outcome will be, because you will still feel disappointed. Nevertheless, we are better off now than ever before in the vast majority of areas. Most things get better. One such famous graph from Hans Rosling is that if you pull the line over the last 100 years, most things have improved. Then you can see something small hack in the curve. The Spanish flu was the biggest thing that happened to the people who lived then. But when we see this aggregated, this was just a hack in the curve. I think it is good that the Government is talking about the need to look at this with new glasses and find new solutions. That really is an advanced problem. I also think it would be welcome if we looked at this not only Minister of State but rather integrated. A few weeks ago I had a debate spontaneously with Annika Strandhäll, when we discussed how things look out at workplaces around Sweden. It is clear that the problem there is about the same as that raised when we talk about home sitters in upper secondary school. You don't really know how to handle someone who feels bad. Then you write off sick and send that person home. But then there is actually no evidence that something really gets better. They take away the social presence of these people with other people, and many have a social need. They don't have to get up early in the morning, eat breakfast, get dressed and do the routine. A handshake between Annika Strandhäll and Ylva Johansson would therefore be welcome. In the same way, you can think about whether a handshake would be needed between Anna Ekström and Gustav Fridolin and that they are thinking about whether it is in upper secondary school that we should put in the clear efforts, or whether it should be done even earlier. Where do things do most good? As the Government says, we do not really know how to measure mental illness, and it is difficult to come up with purely intuitively exactly how to formulate a goal of mental health. I very much agree with that. That requires careful consideration. But, as I said, it would be welcome to have more evidence-based policies to address mental illness and to promote mental health. I am convinced that this discussion will continue long after I too have left Parliament. But it is wonderful that we have now started to work on the issue. It would be welcome if this were done in a determined manner and if it were done with other ministers. There are, as I said, problems not only in upper secondary school but much wider than that.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-418	Mr President, I would like to The pupils' mental health is, of course, related to the school. But it's connected to a lot more. It is an expression that is sometimes attributed to Hillary Clinton that it takes an entire village to raise a child. For every young person in school, there is also an entire community around that has a very great impact, not least on these things. I am very proud and happy that the government has made such a big effort on student health, a student health that can actually be part of the school's work with teaching and education. Work not only with students' health but also with how students' health can lead to better study results and greater participation in school work. It is therefore important that the efforts now being made in the context of national school development projects are carried out. In fact, it is absolutely crucial that this issue is not seen as something that you work with when there is project money available but that it is integrated into school's everyday work. It's about such important things as how students should achieve their learning goals, how they should develop as people and thrive and be happy during their important years of youth. I am also pleased with the collaboration the government has initiated together with the sports movement to strengthen students' movement in school. I think that this type of initiative, in which not only the important staff of the school, but also the community around it, participates and helps to strengthen the pupils' conditions, is very important. After all, the most important thing is perhaps that teachers and principals get good opportunities and good tools to work together with student health to make every young person feel good at school and learn as much as possible. Even though too high expectations can lead to disappointment, lovingly high, and challenging high expectations are often very good for the students – at least if you look at their development.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-422	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the level of demands and expectations can be discussed, but I believe that the great challenge is to make them clear and to ensure that they are in everyone's consciousness. I think it's more about knowing what is expected of one and what demands are made on one – and how one achieves one's goals – than about how high or low expectations are. It's not just the X-axis, it's an X- and a Y-axis. Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for the debate. It is a complicated subject, and we do not have all the answers. I am convinced that the debate will continue, but also that it is good in itself. It breaks the stigma and makes us talk about the problem. I think it is good that we look at evidence-based solutions and also discuss cross-blocks. This is a problem that requires – but perhaps deserves above all – a long-term approach that goes beyond the mandate. Otherwise, I would like to wish the Minister a pleasant summer. I hope she reads a lot of books after a busy Almedals week.
i-ee412ac47d4e9d9c-425	Mr President, I would like to We have a clear interest in talking about this issue and taking it very seriously. I am convinced that transparency is important. It is good that we are talking about this, and every person who goes out and openly and clearly talks about his mental illness and health helps to ensure that it is possible to talk about these issues in a wise and considered way. I am also convinced that a strengthened work with student health, integrated in teaching, is good for the pupils' feeling, health and well-being. It is good for preventing violations and various forms of abuse in school, and it is very good to ensure that students learn as much as they can and are entitled to. With those words, I should like to thank you very much for the debate and for the important question that has been put. I wish the honourable Member and everyone else a pleasant summer.
