i-99c4198a5873ce1a-0	Madam President, I would like For decisions on this matter, I refer to our specific opinion. This issue is about how we should protect, safeguard and maintain financial stability, in particular the institutions that should protect the financial system and financial stability in Sweden and also have supervision of how general economic policy is managed. It is therefore a very important issue. It is particularly important in these times, which in the open may seem very safe with a strong economic cycle that drives jobs and growth. The employment growth we have in Sweden is of course very welcome after the deep and prolonged crisis that began in 2008. But in the half hidden, as Jonas Gardell's television series is called, there is also something in the economic situation that we are currently experiencing. For the future, however, it should call for action, but also for thoughtfulness and perhaps even for concern. It is not entirely clear what the situation we now have will lead to. What is the long-term consequence of a very expansionary monetary policy and negative interest rates? Anyone who claims to be in prison with the answer exaggerates his knowledge, I dare say. We also have a situation in which we have increasingly regulated the financial system, and we are now imposing additional regulations. These are certainly absolutely necessary measures at a time of high indebtedness, major failures in the housing market and expansionary monetary policy, but they also open the way for accidents to occur or for the financial system to be locked up, which no one is capable of predicting with great certainty today. This is also happening at a time when we are not managing public finances in the way we have committed ourselves to through the fiscal framework. Surpluses in the economy are far too small. This is also pointed out by the Financial Policy Council, Konjunkturinstitutet, Ekonomistyrningsverket and others, or, if you like, by all the expert authorities at our disposal. This creates an almost unique situation in Sweden, with a monetary policy that we do not feel the consequences of fully and with new regulations in the financial system that no one can say with certainty what they lead to. This should be offset by a very robust public finance policy in general, but this is not the case. On the contrary, Sweden has relatively weak public financial policies, given the cyclical situation. This risks creating major challenges in the future. It may be a calm, safe and shallow sea that we will sail out on, but when it blows up we still don't really know how high the waves are, nor do we really know what is under the surface. Now is the time to call for caution. In this part of the budget we are also doing this on behalf of the Alliance and the Moderates. Of course, we advocate restraint with public funds, but with robust funding opportunities for the authorities responsible for financial stability and overall monitoring the development of society. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that it is of the utmost importance that this issue be debated and discussed today, because we have a history of social democratic governments closing down the kind of authorities that are being funded here. We have seen in previous Social Democratic government positions that authorities have been shut down who have made criticisms that have not been in line with their own party line. We have also seen such trends during this term of office, where the Minister of Finance has put threats to, for example, the Council of Finance Policy. We now have a position on the part of the budget that finances these institutions. The Moderates and the Alliance as a whole are, of course, strongly behind developments in which these authorities remain independent and strong and are an important voice in the debate on public finances and the management of the financial system.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-9	Madam President, I would like Today we have a uniquely strong and stable economy. We have the lowest public debt since 1977 and a high level of employment – the employment rate is even the highest ever measured. While we have amortised our sovereign debt, we have also invested strongly in our common welfare. It feels safe and good. But for us to continue in the same way, it is important that we have good government and a stable financial market. One of the biggest vulnerabilities in the financial system in Sweden is that we have a large, concentrated banking sector. The banking sector also has a large share of market funding and a limited capacity to absorb losses. The total assets of the Swedish banking groups, both inside and outside the country, correspond to three to four times our bnp. It's a huge sum. Last year the big banks made over SEK 80 billion in profits. We know from experience that it is in good times that risks are built up, risks that pose a growing threat to financial stability. We also know that financial crises and the management of critical banks are very costly both for the state and for society as a whole. Following the financial crisis, a number of rules were tightened in order to reduce the risk of a financial crisis emerging again, but there has also been increased preparedness for a possible future crisis. Higher capital adequacy requirements create buffers in the banks. In the event of a crisis, shareholders and creditors shall bear most of the loss. Added to this is the so-called resolution reserve, which has been created to protect taxpayers and reduce their costs in the event of a crisis. It is reasonable that banks contribute more to crisis preparedness, community building and well-being than they do today. The increased levy strengthens the resolution reserve and public finances. In October last year, a broad political agreement was reached to give Finansinspektionen an increased mandate regarding macroprudential policy. The framework was applied for the first time this autumn and has led to a balanced measure to mitigate the development of another risk factor for financial stability, namely household indebtedness. With the government's consent to a strengthened amortisation requirement, the government takes responsibility for strengthening household resilience. We know well from international experience that highly indebted households are particularly vulnerable and vulnerable to macroeconomic disturbances, such as housing price falls or increased unemployment. Madam President, I would like Government policy in the framework of public administration takes into account the needs of individuals, businesses and organisations. People's trust in the public is a prerequisite for the state administration. And in order to increase the legitimacy of our common solutions, we also see that the state presence in the country needs to be improved. Therefore, the Government has commissioned Försäkringskassan, the Pension Agency and the Swedish Tax Agency to open ten new service offices. We have set up new authorities at the same time as we have announced the relocation of several. This is extremely important and much-needed. Madam President, I would like The Government's policy under Category 2 promotes increased financial stability, better consumer protection in the financial market and better accessibility of public services. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-T5egnginHm2K6hrCBXz1k3	Madam President, I would like This report on the charge to the EU contains two parts: the allocation and commitments for 2018, and the EU's multiannual financial framework after 2020. I do not think there are so many Swedish taxpayers who, this week before Christmas, sit and reflect at the kitchen table on the Swedish fee to the EU or how it is managed. But the fact is that it affects people's everyday lives. In fact, the Moderates – I do not think anyone in this House is saying against me – believe that Sweden should work towards an effective and prudent budgetary policy within the EU and a cost-effective use of EU budget resources. However, we Moderates also believe that Europe must have a more modern budget. The current budget has long passed the deadline. Instead, the budget should be growth-oriented, promote EU competitiveness and give priority to investment in research and development, innovation and justice. The budget should strengthen the EU as a global player. The part of the budget devoted to agricultural aid and cohesion should be reduced. Both sectors currently account for far too much of the total EU budget. Madam President, I would like The UK's withdrawal from the EU means a reduced contribution to the EU budget. We believe that this should be dealt with primarily through re-priorities and reduced expenditure, not through increased costs and charges for the rest of the EU-27. When the UK leaves the EU, the budget needs to be reduced by at least as much. For Sweden, as a net contributor, this is important. We Moderates are convinced that it is important for taxation in a society to take place as close as possible to the citizens. A tax at EU level would make it more difficult for citizens to see the link between their tax burden and the added value created by the tax for society. The tax burden of an EU tax would probably also increase for citizens. The Moderates believe that it must be ensured that the EU budget is used effectively with better auditing, better monitoring of projects and results analysis, and more transparency. In this way, I would like to call for biphale l to the Moderate reservation 1.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-24	Madam President, I would like Area of expenditure 27 is therefore about Sweden's payments to the general budget of the European Union. The budget is determined annually within a multiannual financial framework. The revenue consists mainly of contributions from the Member States. The Swedish approach to budgetary policy is that it should be conducted efficiently and with restraint. This is a line to which the Swedish Democrats give their full support. However, there are still a few things in the context of this dossier that I wish to highlight today. With the establishment of the budget expenditure framework, the Swedish EU contribution for 2018 has been estimated at SEK 39.5 billion. We can break it down to the net per capita of the previous year, i.e. the contribution less the contributions paid back. Then the sum is more than SEK 2 000. This is therefore the amount that the Swede has to pay each year to Brussels for membership of the European Union. But what do you get for the money? It is a question that has often been asked lately in different contexts. I think it is justified to put it here too. The EU's revenue finances expenditure on agricultural and cohesion policy, which has certainly been reduced but which, taken together, still accounts for a majority of total expenditure. In this context, there are the so-called ESI Funds, which provide capital for various projects aimed at promoting cohesion, as it is called in EU languages. However, the EU's audit bodies have criticised the funds, as they have been made, since their establishment, with material errors in terms of undue payments. For example, expenditure on the budget line for economic, social and territorial cohesion in 2016 was EUR 35.7 billion. The margin of error was 4.8 per cent. This means that EUR 1.7 billion, or SEK 17 billion, has been paid out to projects that have not even been eligible. Let me give you another example. This applies to the allocation for natural resources. The margin of error was 2.5 per cent or SEK 14 billion. Cost whatever it costs, but that's what it looks like. With regard to the financial contributions allocated correctly and correctly, almost 80% of those contributions go to 20% of the largest companies. It is often companies in eastern countries, and this often happens at the expense of Swedish farmers. I will move on to something called the EFSI. There, tax funds are channelled into interesting projects in the Member States. For example, energy efficient buildings are financed in Germany, installation of solar panels in Romania and modernisation of railways in Slovenia, not in Sweden. That is the kind of policy that is often highlighted as a good example of what we get for the money. But we do get other things too, such as fines when we do not do as we are told by the European Union. A responsible immigration policy, such as Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary, is being brought to justice by the European Court of Justice. It is an approach which, incidentally, all parties in this House except the Swedish Democrats support. We also have a democratic deficit in the form of politicians in Brussels which we have not chosen and which we cannot remove but which makes the decisions for us. More than half of all municipal decisions are affected by the EU. Finally, we have open borders and begging, two things made possible by the European Union and completed by sick leaves. Madam President, I would like In the aftermath of the international dissatisfaction with the European Union, which culminated last summer, many, including myself, hoped that the European Union would step up and do something constructive. What has been learned from Brexit? The answer is: absolutely nothing. Instead, the declaration to the Member States is that when the United Kingdom leaves the Union, the so-called rebates will be abolished, which will mean that large net contributors such as Sweden will have to pay an even fatter bill for the party. By 2020, our gross fee is estimated to have increased to SEK 44 billion per year, provided we have the discounts left. It is in pairs with the grant for the entire judiciary, and it is not far from the grant for the entire Swedish defence. This is 10 billion more than the total expenditure on guarantee pension for old-age pension, survivor's pension, housing allowance for pensioners, old-age support and the Pension Authority – together. Madam President, I would like Our starting point is clear. Our main task in the Swedish Parliament is to uphold the social contract, which we as politicians are obliged to do. With the policy of the Swedish Democrats, this area of expenditure would have been zeroed and abolished. The tax funds had been returned to our common welfare. It is a welfare that today does not deliver as it should. That is why we have delivered a separate opinion on this subject, explaining our vision.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-36	Madam President, I would like The report now under discussion concerns Sweden's fee to the European Union. Sweden is, and is becoming increasingly, closely associated with our European neighbours. Our economies are highly interwoven, and we influence and are influenced by each other's policies. Sweden is an open economy with large exports where free trade is an important part, and it is important for Sweden that the European market works well. For Sweden, it is also good if our neighbours have a well-functioning economy and well-being, because then we provide traction support for each other in the development. It is therefore of interest to us that we in the European Union work towards economic development that is characterised by inclusive growth and welfare. The EU is well served by strong welfare states. There are also good reasons why we in the European Union are helping to solve and deal with the challenges and changes that our countries are facing and that we can usefully resolve jointly, rather than individually. Furthermore, it is of interest that the EU pursues a prudent economic policy. On the one hand, the concentration should be on the implementation of commitments already agreed, and on the other hand, the EU should give priority to commitments relating to common security, migration, competitiveness, climate change, education and research. Madam President, I would like Today, the Swedish membership fee amounts to one per cent of Sweden's gross national income, bni, and that is the level at which we want to keep the levy. There is broad agreement on this. It is the Member States' contributions to the EU that mainly finance the EU's commitments and the EU's organisation. Moreover, as a result of the UK leaving the EU and their membership fee, there is no reduction in income to the EU. Consequently, expenditure and commitments should also be adjusted accordingly. For the Swedish part, we are also keen for the EU to focus its work on what brings added value to citizens. Above all, it is about dealing with the issues that we better resolve together than on our own in the Member States. Madam President, I would like There is a need for a Europe that is developing positively, where we meet and agree peacefully and democratically. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-45	Madam President, I would like Two years ago, in 2015, I stood here in the speaker's chair and demanded that Sweden should make demands on the other countries of Europe to accept refugees if they were to get EU support. At the time, the Left Party was alone in supporting that proposal, but today it is actually seven of the parliamentary parties who do so. I can only welcome that and say that we went first and that it was important. The fact that the Swedish parliament and government now have a tough rhetoric about the EU budget is something that I, as an EU critic, think is good. We see how the federalists in the EU are pulling the EU in the wrong direction, including by introducing a finance minister and trying to strengthen the EU's power even more. At the same time, we see that countries governed by right-wing governments and right-wing governments, such as Hungary, the Czech Republic and Poland, are doing everything possible to undermine the EU's joint agreements on the joint distribution of refugees. The last time, it was the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, who felt that solidarity was inefficient, something that we from the Swedish side could never accept. At the same time, we are seeing how Europe is heading in the wrong direction. The agreements with Turkey and Libya mean that refugees live a hard life and are exploited both in reality and in the political game. Even the slave trade is in progress in some cases. The fact that the EU has closed down the legal channels that existed to seek asylum has created this situation. The EU thus has a heavy responsibility to uphold human rights in the Mediterranean region and ensure that they are respected. In the coming years, the fight for the EU budget after 2020 will in all likelihood be tough. Sweden is and has been a net contributor to the EU ever since we joined the EU. This means that every year we pay more to Europe than we get back in the form of different subsidies. This should make Sweden's economic muscles strong in the negotiations. The British' decision to leave the EU will certainly contribute to the tougher negotiations. At the same time, it is clear that the European elite does not see it as an opportunity to cut in inefficient and costly EU subsidies and bureaucracy, but rather sees it as an opportunity to move even more power to Brussels. We in Sweden will never accept that. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-52	Madam President, I would like We will now debate the continuation of Swedish participation in NATO's Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan. The bill proposes that the Riksdag admits that the Government makes available a Swedish armed force for participation in NATO's Resolute Support Mission, RSM. The strength allowance shall consist of approximately 30 persons on site, but not more than 50. If the situation so requires, it shall be possible to provide, in addition to the force contribution itself, a temporary reinforcement and evacuation force of not more than 150 persons. The Swedish force will mainly be active in northern Afghanistan and will continue to contribute mainly with training and mentoring of senior staff. The purpose of the grant is to provide training, advice and support to Afghan security forces in order to be able to deal independently with security in the country. Madam President, I would like Everyone is aware that the security situation in Afghanistan has worsened. At the same time, it differs in the different parts of the country. The number of civilian deaths is highest in the central and southern parts of the country. There has also been an increase in attacks in Kabul on embassies, international organisations and also on mosques. All this is usually reported in Swedish media, while we rarely hear about what is positive – because there are definitely positive elements also in Afghanistan. Corruption is a huge obstacle to Afghanistan's development. The country ends up at the absolute bottom of the Transparency International index, in place 169 out of 176 countries. In recent times, however, high - ranking individuals, thought only a few years ago to be intractable, have been sentenced to long prison sentences for corruption — up to 20 years in prison. Those who are convicted must also pay back what they have stolen or embezzled. General Mohammad Moeen Faqir, former commander-in-chief of the disputed Helmand province, was sentenced earlier this year to nine years in prison and to repay nearly SEK 10 million he has embezzled. Another convicted is Abdul Ghafar Dawi, the owner of Dawi Oil, who was found guilty, among other things, of tampering with bids on fuel contracts and fraud against other oil companies. He and a close associate were sentenced to nine years and nine months in prison each. Furthermore, prison staff have been sentenced to imprisonment after being bribed to release sentenced persons. Bank officials have been convicted of faking collateral for loans and senior officers for theft of fuel. But there have also been setbacks. Among other things, Vice-President Rashid Abdul has been accused of having raped a political rival. He managed to disappear to Turkey before he was interrogated. According to one of the Attorney General's staff, 1 097 corruption cases have been tried in three corruption courts, and 468 people have been sentenced to prison. Repayments and fines totalling more than SEK 113 million have been imposed. Two superstars who bluffed with fuel for generators were sentenced to 18 and 20 years in prison, respectively, and fines of over $1 million. All of this is available in an article in The Washington Post in August. This is a start, but much remains to be done to reduce corruption. Madam President, I would like Afghanistan's economic dependence on Pakistan is decreasing, which is particularly positive for imports of goods into Afghanistan. The Iranian port of Chah Bahar on the Persian Gulf has been opened for Afghan trade. That trade route is shorter than the old one through Afghanistan. There is, however, a small piece of wood here. Instead, Afghanistan is relying on a new neighbour for imports from India and the rest of the world in particular. Madam President, I would like I also want to tell you a true story of sunshine. It's a story about why it's so important that we help the Afghans so that they themselves can stabilize their security position. On the outskirts of Mazar-e Sharif lives a young woman, Nasira. When Nasira was three years old, she had polio and as a result of polion a disability. She has always had a hard time at school and has not been respected because she is in a wheelchair. Nasira had trouble making friends and was teased. Her teacher condemned her as a hopeless case. Through Swedish aid money, in this case from the Swedish Afghanistan Committee, Nasira has been assisted by a physiotherapist and received a new functional wheelchair. Nasira also received an eight - month - long career as a seamstress. Through Sak she received a so-called microloan in order to buy a sewing machine, among other things. Today, Nasira supports her mother and sister with her sewing, and she paints the hands of women to be married. Without the relative calm in the province of Balkh, Nasira would never have succeeded in this. That is why it is important that we are there and support the Afghans so that they can manage their own security in the long term. Then I have some curiosity. In February 2018 in Pyeongchang, the first Afghans in history will participate in a winter Olympics. It is Sayed Alishah Farhang and Sajjad Husaini who will compete in big slalom. We must wish them every success. The Alliance parties have a reservation, in which we state that the government should return to the Riksdag with only targets for the operation and indicate how the effort should be evaluated against the goals set. The objectives set by the government in this proposal are not concrete enough. I therefore propose that reservation 2 be approved. As the first speaker on these two matters of sending troops abroad, I would like to thank all our soldiers and sailors who are abroad. They do an amazing job every day in dangerous areas. Take care of yourselves! Today, Mali 06 is awarded in Arvidsjaur. We want to thank Mali 06 for what they've done. Those of us who were in Mali this spring know what their situation is. Take care of yourselves out there! Merry Christmas and Happy New Year, all sun dates – even soldiers in Sweden!
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-70	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have a reservation that I support – reservation 1. We differ here in that we want to suspend and phase out the operation in Afghanistan. This does not mean that there should be a panic escape from Afghanistan. The operation can be settled in peace and quiet where some advisors remain, but in the long run it will be settled. It'll be a no now, but we mean in the long run. It takes time to settle after a no. Sweden participated for the first time in Afghanistan in 2002. At that point, the operation was essentially an intelligence unit. It developed into Swedish soldiers participating in battles with combat forces. Now it's 2017. So it has been many years. It's not easier today. The former speaker, Lena Asplund, said that we can see some glimpses of light. It is hopefully because it is time for the Afghans themselves to take over responsibility with their own protection forces, as they do in many parts. After so many years, they should be able to get to grips with this. They have done so in many areas. Now the operation is to be phased out. But there is no control over the country. The Taliban forces remain a real threat to the survival of the regime. Of course there's a connection. If everyone leaves Afghanistan, it will be easier for the Taliban to arrive. However, in some way the evaluations you others in this House are proposing must be carried out. We think your proposals are wise. We fully share the view that there should always be evaluations. But even with these evaluations, we have made our decision. We might ask ourselves how long this will take. It is a particular issue, and it will be addressed later. Already when we Swedish democrats entered the Riksdag, our representatives warned that the conditions for success for Swedish participation in Afghanistan were lacking. There was a risk of civil war. Without a clear success, one can ask what the ultimate goal is. There have been criticisms of the design of the operation during the journey. There are no clear targets. The Swedish National Audit Office has at one time made use of the wording that it believes that the goal of the Swedish operation has been to participate regardless of whether or not any concrete goal is achieved. We know that. It is unacceptable to have it that way. These requirements have been taken into account in evaluations. That's good. I want to be clear about the opinion of the Swedish Democrats, namely that it is time to finish the effort. That's why we say no. The fact that several Swedish governments have chosen to participate in the Afghanistan operation is a result of demonstrating loyalty to the needs of the United States, not necessarily because Swedish participation has made a significant difference at an overall level. In so doing, I would like to point out that the Swedish Armed Forces have made an exemplary effort in Afghanistan and in many other places. I've been in UN service myself. It's not always easy. In the position of soldier or officer, it is important, Madam President, that there are concrete objectives, that there is an evaluation and that there is support from Sweden in the efforts so that you feel appreciated. I shall not give examples where it may have been otherwise understood. Although the Swedish Armed Forces have carried out these evaluations, a further limit needs to be set. We think the border has been crossed. Now it is Afghanistan's duty to take care of its security and oppose the Taliban. The Swedish defence has received a smaller budget. Well, a little more has it become. Some parties are investing a lot more. But after all, there is a lack of money. Now, Madam President, a cuckoo's nest is being bought into an anti-aircraft system. It might be; we don't know yet. Each country needs its own defence of existence. Our money will primarily continue to build up the Swedish defence. We need all the means available to build a strong defence as quickly as possible. It is time to say no to a continued effort and instead to dismantle operations in peace and quiet in Afghanistan – neatly and neatly.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-83	Madam President, I would like Afghanistan is one of the poorest countries in the world, but that does not mean that it lacks resources – quite the contrary. It is more a matter of being able to take care of your own resources. It's a country characterised by long-standing conflicts and oppression, as well as by the regional context of many interests that have fingers in Afghanistan's inner life – and it's not just al-Qaeda and terrorist organisations of a similar kind. Economic growth has clearly slowed down. This is a clear effect of the withdrawal of the international security forces in 2014. The country has had a war economy, which is of course a concern in itself. Political instability has existed for a long time. It exists today, and it hinders development and both foreign and domestic investment. Capital leaves the country. The budget is therefore highly dependent on aid. That is another concern for Afghanistan – 60% of the Afghan budget is financed through aid. It is clear that this is not sustainable in a country with its own resources in the long term. Because society is not working, corruption is also part of what causes instability. Corruption permeates society, and there are no conditions for future development unless it is overcome. Madam President, I would like Sweden has been present in Afghanistan for a long time. The Swedish Afghanistan Committee, which was founded in 1980 in response to the Soviet Union's invasion, has made significant efforts in the country since then with Swedish aid. Today, 5 000 people are employed, 99% of whom are Afghans. It is, of course, an important resource. Sweden also has a long-term approach to Afghanistan's future. We've been involved in prevention. Not least, the Swedish Afghanistan Committee has trained a large proportion of Afghan youth and been responsible for care in many parts of the country. Now we are also trying to stabilise, put an end to the conflict and help rebuild. We have a long-term commitment until 2024 to our aid, and it is clear that it is part of the Swedish effort that matters. We have been in the international security forces under the mandate of the UN Security Council since 2002. That mandate ended as the beginning of the year 2014/ 15. At that time, our efforts were translated into a non-combatting training and counselling effort at the invitation of the Afghan Government. We are thus helping to consolidate the ability of the Afghan security forces to deal independently in the long term with the security of the country. That, Madam President, is what we are doing together with 39 other countries. A total of 13 500 people are active in this operation. It is clear that it is not easy to evaluate an operation where the Swedish participation is 50 people in a group of 13 500. That goes without saying. Nevertheless, it is important that we try to do this. That we do so is also part of what is contained in the reservation that we have highlighted in paragraph 2 and which I would like to support. This is to highlight the importance of our having clear national targets because the international objectives are common and it may be difficult to evaluate our efforts. But we need to move forward on our national targets. We have now agreed to be present until 31 December 2018, i.e. a year ahead. We will provide training and advice. We highlight Resolution 1325 as an important element. It is important, as we hope that the citizens of Afghanistan will be allowed to go to elections next year. It was supposed to happen but has not yet taken place. We now hope that this can be achieved and that we can once again be part of creating opportunities for women to participate in elections, as we have managed to do in the past. I think that is an important reason to continue for those who signal a withdrawal. We know that this creates increased uncertainty, and at this point uncertainty would hit women the hardest – especially women who are prepared to take democratic responsibility and stand up in future elections. It is therefore important that Sweden remains present and that we participate together with other countries in order to really try to create the conditions for the Afghan security forces to guarantee their own security. Madam President, I would like Like the previous speaker, I would like to thank all those sent from Sweden who are making efforts in Afghanistan but also in other countries. It's an important effort you're making, all of you. I would also like to extend that thanks to your families and relatives, because their support is an important prerequisite for people to take assignments that we ask for. Thanks to all of you and Merry Christmas and Happy New Year, everyone out there and relatives here in Sweden! With that, Madam President, I support the reservation in paragraph 2.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-96	Madam President, I would like Since the representatives of both the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats in the committee are calling for rejection of the bill, we must have a joint reservation on this. However, I would like to emphasise that our parties fundamentally differ in terms of their view of Sweden's engagement in Afghanistan. The policy of the Left Party for Afghanistan is based on solidarity with the Afghan people. We want Sweden to be a present and active player in the country. But this should be done through extensive assistance and political efforts for peace, democracy and women's rights – not through military presence. To participate for a year in an operation that has proved to be worse for a few years with large civilian victims is worse than crossing the river after water. We have previously called for the rejection of proposals on the same subject and still believe that a Swedish armed force should not be made available in the NATO training and advice mission. This effort has been justified and defended with a wide range of arguments. It has been said, among other things, that the Swedish soldiers should protect Afghan girls who want to go to school, that the military operation should contribute to democratisation, that it should defeat the Taliban militarily, that it should prevent acid attacks on women and that it should create security. We note that the security situation has not improved. On the contrary, the conflict has worsened and an increasing number of women and civilians are being attacked. Aid workers have been killed, and peace is still remote. In addition, the operation takes place in parallel with the U.S. Operation Free Sentinel, and both are led by the same American command, making Swedish participation even more problematic. In March, an evaluation of Sweden's overall engagement in Afghanistan came in the period 2002–2014 – how to now call military intervention The investigation shows that few goals have been achieved and that the Swedish force is not considered to have contributed to the desirable maintenance of safety. Nor has it helped to build up the capacity of Afghan security forces to the desired extent. We believe that this is a serious flaw. According to the investigation, the Swedish Armed Forces have, however, developed their own ability to cooperate with NATO. Given how many have fallen victim to NATO's warfare, I can think that the price for this has been far too high. While I am on the subject, I would like to highlight our request for a White Paper. It is said that this is not needed after this investigation, but I find it difficult to see that it was independent and credible, as it was led by one of the politicians who made the decision to send a Swedish military force to Afghanistan. As the investigation does not answer the question as to why the mission to create security in Afghanistan has failed, there is therefore still a need to set up an independent investigation to find out. A White Paper on the Swedish military presence in Afghanistan would be a way of transparently presenting and evaluating both the military operation and Sweden's support for police training, development aid and political and diplomatic work. In particular, it is important to evaluate how Sweden's various efforts have interacted with each other – what has been called civilian – military cooperation over the years. I therefore request the approval of reservation 3. Madam President, I would like In Afghanistan, a new generation of young women and men is growing up. Although more people are receiving training today, many of them do not have the means to do so. There is also a lack of opportunities for livelihood and for a life that is not limited by oppression and poverty. This picture is confirmed not least by all the unaccompanied children and young people who have fled the country and who, due to the lack of security in Afghanistan, should under no circumstances be returned. A future must first be created for young people and children in Afghanistan. Lack of faith in the future and frustration are Taliban best friends and facilitate their recruitment. Civil aid is only necessary for this reason to solve the root causes of the war in Afghanistan. The Left Party therefore welcomes the fact that Sweden has promised more than SEK 8 billion in civilian aid to Afghanistan by 2024. At the same time, these civilian efforts must be complemented by efforts to support the attempts at a peace and reconciliation process. Such a process must include a wide range of all the groups involved in Afghan society in order for a long-term peaceful solution to take shape. It is therefore important for civil society to have a more prominent role in future peace talks. It is particularly important that the women of Afghanistan are included in the peace process so that their influence and rights are not negotiated away. In June 2015, a plan was adopted in Afghanistan aimed at implementing UN Resolution 1325. It is of the utmost importance that this work should form the basis for the construction of a democratic Afghanistan in peace. The Left Party has previously lifted and re-emphasised the need for a Swedish action plan for Sweden's work on UN resolutions 1325 and 1820 in Afghanistan, which clarifies how Sweden can strengthen Afghanistan's women and ensure that they gain increased influence in the peace process. In this way, we are contributing to the successful implementation of these resolutions by Afghanistan. Of course, a process of peace and reconciliation will be complicated and take time. But there are no other options if we want to see Afghanistan in peace. There is nothing to say that Afghanistan would be condemned to war and conflict forever. Mr President, I would like to What we in the Left Party want is for Sweden to engage civilianly with aid and not with military efforts. We also want to see an independent study that in depth analyses Sweden's efforts from 2002 to 2014 and results in a so-called White Paper. We also want to see a commitment to peace built by civil society and thus have a greater chance of lasting.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-113	Mr President, I would like to When the Taliban government fell in 2001, only around 10 percent of Afghans had access to healthcare within an hour of home. Today, the share is estimated at just over 60%. The number of midwives has increased from 467 in the whole country in 2002 to around 3 000 today. The increase has contributed to the survival of many more women in pregnancy and childbirth. According to official statistics, child mortality in Afghanistan has fallen since 2001. Then every fourth child died before the age of five. Now the infant mortality rate is down to 16 percent; it is a clear improvement even though the figures are of course very high. Infant mortality has also fallen, from 165 to 77 deaths per 1,000 born. That is why I wonder how Yasmine Posio Nilsson can call for this proposal to be rejected. If we do not support the Afghan military so that we can maintain the security situation ourselves, what is the alternative? Is it chaos and collapse, or is it an Afghanistan that goes back to the Taliban and perhaps Daish as well? I think Yasmine owes the answer. You sat here and heard my story about Nasira. Should not women in Afghanistan also have the opportunity to make a living and to go out without having a man with them? It was not possible under the Taliban regime. Then the women were locked up in the homes. So I wonder: where is the Left Party's solidarity with the Afghan people?
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-117	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lena Asplund, for the question! The fact that many more children go to school and that there has been a lot of civil progress is good and important. But simply linking this to the military operation leads the idea wrong. In fact, it is the civil organisations that have achieved the great successes on the civilian side. The Swedish Afghanistan Committee is behind this, with education, midwives and health care. It's not the military that's doing this. The Swedish Afghanistan Committee, which ought to be a fairly large authority in this area, wants to see an end to the military invasion in Afghanistan. They feel that it makes their work more difficult and jeopardises it. Shouldn't we listen to them?
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-119	Mr President, I would like to I didn't get an answer to my question. I have been on the board of the Swedish Afghanistan Committee, so I am very well aware of the work Sak does in Afghanistan. But there are in fact provinces in Afghanistan where even the Sak can't operate, because of the great unrest. You mentioned in your speech, Yasmine Posio Nilsson, that the presence has impaired the security situation. I wonder where you got it. It must be completely out of the air. How are we supposed to know what the security situation would have been like in Afghanistan if we had not had a presence there at all? I think that we would have either maintained the Taliban regime because it looked like that in 2001, when ISAF began to stabilise the country somewhat when, or had had a total chaos and collapse of the state. How are these women and children helped by a country in total chaos and collapse? After all, you yourself write in your reservation: a left-wing policy for Afghanistan is based on solidarity with the Afghan people. ..................................................... I absolutely agree with that. For me it is, because my heart is there. I've been there a couple of times, and I know some Afghan people. I have met Afghan women parliamentarians and so on, and everyone wants a different life and peace. But we must now help the Afghans to stabilise themselves. The Afghan military did not work. It was chaos. I would like to make another point. Yasmine Posio Nilsson did not agree to reservation 1, so you did not propose to reject the bill.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-124	Mr President, I would like to Lena Asplund says that she thinks it would have been chaos if we had not been there and that we have no idea what it would be like there whether we continue to be there or not. But we can't compare with anything. There is no exact analogue country. However, the investigation that came in March says that the Swedish force is not considered to have contributed to ensuring that safety has been maintained to the desired extent. Nor has it sufficiently built up the capabilities of the Afghan security forces. Is it not time, then, to reconsider and listen to others'suggestions? Among other civil organisations, they say they do not want this type of action. At the same time, Operation Freedom's Sentinel, which is in fact the United States' own operation in addition to the NATO joint operation, has designed warring bands. Resolute Support Mission and Operation Freedom's Sentinel are led by the same commanding officer. Don't you see a problem with that, Lena Asplund? Our solidarity is with the Afghan people, and we in the Left Party are behind it. That is why we are constantly calling for aid to the country. That is also why we support the solutions that civil organisations tell us that they want to see in the country and not the solutions that warlords want to see. I have heard politicians say that we sometimes have to make unpopular decisions. Often it is mentioned in connection with decisions that will in no way affect them themselves. When the number of civilian victims is so high compared to the number of captured or killed military opponents, and when civil organisations themselves say that they do not want our response because it impairs their ability to carry out a sensible activity that really helps people, it is important that we politicians listen and re-evaluate the decisions.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-130	Mr President, I would like to I'm going to be brief when I ask my questions. First of all, I would like to hear whether the Left Party believes that security is important for women's participation and, if so, how the Left Party wants to build this security. I would also like to hear whether the Left Party understands that the Swedish presence of 50 people in a group of 13 500 can make a difference to how to give advice or how to train, or whether it only contributes to making developments in Afghanistan more difficult.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-133	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Kerst in L undgren for the questions. I think it's a little funny that you say it's only 50 people, because then we might as well not be there. Then I wonder: What difference can we make? I have to point out once again that the report that came out in March says that the Swedish force is not considered to have contributed to the maintenance of safety at the desired level. It has not sufficiently built up the capabilities of the Afghan security forces. Then they can't help the women you say you care about. It is clear that we want to do the same, and that is why we emphasise in the exercise that women should be involved in the work. Only in this way can the security of women really be strengthened and highlighted, as only then will their important issues be on the agenda.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-135	Mr President, I would like to If 50 Swedish soldiers should not go there because it contributes to harming Afghanistan, I wonder how the Left Party believes that women should dare to participate and make their voices heard in the elections that will take place in the coming year – both vote and stand in the elections – without security. If these 50 soldiers should leave Afghanistan, the other 13 500 should leave the country as well. Or is it the case that the Left Party's position is to leave it to other countries to take care of the security that you consider yourself too fine to want to participate in?
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-136	Mr President, I would like to I will go back to the investigation that shows that we are not succeeding on the ground. Instead, we could end the attempts that actually do not work and try another new way if the UN built up a completely different mandate. I have mentioned here before that the operation that is NATO-led is also led by American commanders who are in charge of Operation Freedom's Sentinel, who has received very poor criticism for their behaviour. We believe that it may somehow build up a sense of insecurity in the country. The military operation being conducted today is increasing the number of civilian victims, and this has been the case for a few years. Then we have to rethink and make new things and do them differently.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-138	Mr President, I would like to Several speakers have noted that Sweden has now been present in Afghanistan for a long time with both military and civilian personnel. In fact, it is 16 years since we began our presence, and we now have a continuing force with a number over 30. It is true, as Lena Asplund has mentioned, that many conditions for civilians in Afghanistan have improved during these years. There are more people who get access to health care, and more people get the opportunity to go to school and we have strengthened the Afghan security forces. There has been little fight against corruption, and relatively free elections have been held. At the same time, it is inevitable that the security situation in recent years has not improved but, on the contrary, has worsened. I believe that it is necessary, not only for Sweden but for all the other countries that are also active in Afghanistan, to do what is possible to improve efforts and shape them in a way that is more effective and that will enable Afghans to take greater responsibility for their own security. That is precisely why the Alliance has a reservation in this report about the fact that if we are to improve, there must be national Evaluatable targets against which we can compare our efforts. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the government has not performed fully here in relation to what has been required in previous parliamentary decisions regarding concrete Evaluatable Goals. For this reason, I would like to support reservation 2 in the report. I am a little surprised by the Swedish democrats' contributions here today. They're calling for a rejection of the bill. The meaning of this is that the Swedish presence in Afghanistan must be phased out almost in two weeks. Roger Richtoff says that this should be done in peace, but the positions taken together by the Left Party unfortunately do not allow for a peaceful resolution. It will be extremely premature, because the mandate expires on 31 December of this year. The Swedish Democrats have been arguing for a long time that refugees should be helped on the ground and should not be forced to long journeys to seek asylum in foreign countries. This argument may well have some sort of logic in itself, but it becomes completely incomprehensible when, at the same time, we are not prepared to contribute to better conditions in the countries from which refugees come. By rejecting the bill and saying that we should not be in Afghanistan in the future, we do not. On the contrary, it will lead to a deterioration of the conditions for people in Afghanistan and risk leading to further flows of refugees. The Left Party says that Sak, the Swedish Afghanistan Committee, demands an end to Sweden's military presence in Afghanistan. That's not correct. I have just reviewed the Committee's policy officers' comments on the military presence, and none of those points require the dissolution of the Resolute Support Mission. On the other hand, there are comments on how and to what extent different military operations are carried out. Furthermore, I was bouncing to hear that the effort that has been made would have weakened the security situation in Afghanistan, Mr President. I admit that the security situation in recent years has not improved, but it is my absolute conviction that the situation in Afghanistan would have been far worse than it is now if we had not had ISAF and RSM. Even though we cannot offer the perfect security, politics is often about choosing what is the least bad, and I believe that we in this House have been doing this for a long time. I think it is important to thank all men and women who are engaged internationally, in Afghanistan and other countries. It is important that this thank you not only to veterans and military personnel, but also to those civilian officials who are largely serving on government missions in Afghanistan, among others. I would like to conclude, Mr President, by thanking them for their sacrifice, heroism and effort.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-147	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are discussing the report Continued Swedish participation in NATO's Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan. As many here have been involved, the Alliance and the Christian Democrats welcome the continuation of the effort. Afghanistan is one of the world's poorest countries and a country that has been plagued by war and strife for many years. The Taliban, in particular, have caused terrible damage. Sweden has a long-standing relationship with Afghanistan – we have had that since the 1930s – and the Swedish Afghanistan Committee has made an important contribution in the country since the 1980s. Afghanistan is also one of the largest recipient countries of Swedish aid, and in 2014 the Riksdag decided to continue for five more years with a total of 4.8 billion. Since 2002, we have been assisting within the framework of ISAF and later within the Resolute Support Mission. Very many Swedish men and women, over 9 000, have been down and made contributions. As has been said here, it has been a difficult effort, but Sweden has contributed to more people being able to get medical care and go to school. In fact, I myself have a special memory from when I was privileged to visit our troops at the Nordic Light base in 2011. Then we had about 500 people in place. We visited a village where Sweden was involved and drilled a well and helped. There was also a school for girls who were not allowed to go to school at all, and I remember what it was like to see the joy in their eyes. Sweden has thus contributed in many different ways. As many have said, we are not satisfied with the situation today – it is going in the wrong direction – but Sweden has clearly been involved and has contributed to the fact that it has also gone in the right direction. In order to get somewhere, it is absolutely essential that safety be improved. It was said earlier in the debate that the Swedish Afghanistan Committee would be against military presence. In fact, it is stated in a special document that one is not opposed to military presence in Afghanistan on principle. There are comments, but that is a completely different matter. As the previous speaker pointed out, we in the Alliance have a reservation calling for the objectives of the operation to be monitored better and more clearly. It is very important that that reservation is supported. Finally, I would also like to join in our thanks to everyone from Sweden who has now been out in Afghanistan and other countries and to those who have come home. It is veterans who have made magnificent efforts. I would like to thank them all, as well as their relatives, and wish them a Merry Christmas.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-155	Mr President, I would like to We are here today to debate and decide on continued participation in NATO's Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan. I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal and rejection of the reservations. When we consider today a continued contribution to the training and counselling effort in Afghanistan, there are many reasons to be deeply concerned about the reality of the country today. Sweden started with its contribution already in 2002, then on a small scale with a intelligence unit. Over the years we have since gradually increased to 500, with the possibility of reinforcement in the event of unforeseen events with up to 900 soldiers. Several of us in this House were at that time involved in taking these decisions. In 2010 we here in Sweden reached a broad agreement between the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party and the then bourgeois government that the continued direction should be changed to be supportive. In 2011 I sat on behalf of the Social Democrats and negotiated with the then Minister of Aid Gunilla Carlsson and the bourgeois government and the Green Party, and in August of the same year we presented a long-term aid commitment to Afghanistan. The idea was that we should go from fighting to supporting and degressing volumes on the military side. The operation would be given civilian direction, and we would focus on strengthening the Afghans' own capabilities and capabilities. Under the said agreement, which would enter into force in the area of aid in 2012, we would at the same time be prepared to increase our aid. I remember at the press conference we talked about increasing it by about 20%. The aid we already provided at that time amounted to 520 million a year. There is no doubt that Afghanistan is our main aid destination, and even then it was definitely one of them. We cannot talk about our commitment to Afghanistan without mentioning the impressive efforts of the Swedish Afghanistan Committee over the years. I particularly remember an occasion when the President of Afghanistan was here in Stockholm and visited the Riksdag. He spoke to us members in the second chamber and said, half jokingly and half in earnest, that he wanted to make the then chairman of the Swedish Afghanistan Committee Deputy Minister for Education in Afghanistan. So extensive was the Committee's work that I believe that 25% of the country's schools were supported or run. For the most part of the time, it managed to operate largely throughout the country – including in Taliban-controlled areas, the Afghanistan Committee was successful. As mentioned earlier, the work of the Afghanistan Committee in the country goes much further than the efforts we have made on the military side. Someone mentioned that it was formed in 1980, which is quite true. At the political level too, the relationship between our countries is good and strong. We have embassies in each other's countries for a long time, and our countries have a continuous dialogue. The contacts have gained another dimension in recent years through the large numbers of unaccompanied refugee children who have come to Sweden. All of this is linked – the military, the political, the humanitarian and the refugees. I am a little concerned when I hear the interventions of the Swedish Democrats, because this is connected. The security situation in Afghanistan, combined with very low living standards and widespread corruption, makes many want to leave the country. Afghanistan is in place 171 out of 188 on a welfare index, according to the UNDP, which also tells us that 40% of the country's population wants to leave the country. Without security, no development. But the opposite also applies – without development, no security. These are connected. Therefore, it is important that we are able to be persevering and clear in our direction. The basis for today's decision is in many parts bleak reading. The armed conflict has continued to worsen. The humanitarian situation has continued to deteriorate. Bnp per capita decreases. Corruption permeates society as a whole. Political conflicts are blocking powerful policies in the country. Respect for human rights is very inadequate. Only the first half of this year 5 243 civilian victims have been harvested, 610 of which are women and children. This is terrible reading. I want to come back to the fact that it is really about the overall picture. When the SD calls for the rejection of this commitment, it should reflect on the consequences of our not being involved in countries such as Afghanistan. In places where people are not in a position to live because of the security situation and poor humanitarian conditions, this has other consequences. That should be borne in mind when you look at it so black or white and think that we should not take this responsibility in Afghanistan. I would like to reflect a little on the discussion between Yasmine Posio Nilsson and Kerstin Lundgren on how we reflect on our efforts. It is important that we ourselves and together with others, and of course together with our Afghan partners, reflect on how we have ended up here. We cannot be satisfied with the result we see in Afghanistan after so much involvement in the country. We want to make it better. That is why we are prepared to take the risk of sending Swedish troops to Afghanistan. That is also why we are sending extensive humanitarian aid to the country, and also in this area people are taking risks. Soft targets are becoming more common. Of all the people whose lives have been harvested in Afghanistan, there are certainly many who have been involved in humanitarian work in the country. It is therefore important that we are able to be strong and clear in our commitment to Afghanistan. It is important that we are able to stand firm, to be long-term and not to fail. Nor should we let ourselves down when it comes to what we have gone into. Our commitment is long-term. We will be a support for a very long period of time ahead. We must have that endurance. Together, we must also reflect on how we can do this better. The fact that the situation in so many areas has deteriorated or remains unacceptably poor cannot continue. There are flashes of light– colleagues in here have mentioned some of them, such as health care and more girls in school. Unfortunately, however, the overall features are not positive at the moment, as many of the international humanitarian organisations and the UN testify. We have now had a commitment for more than 15 years. Several billions have been invested through security efforts and through aid. It's cost a lot of lives. As we look at the results, we see some flashes of light, but we also feel despair that we have not succeeded better together. We should be able to do better together. We got an investigation that we ordered from Tone Tingsgård that gives some clues about how we can improve our engagement. But we should continue to be able to reflect and see how we can do it better together. It is important that we continue, with unabated commitment and conviction, to provide support to Afghanistan, both for capacity building and for humanitarian purposes. The people of Afghanistan deserve a better fate. Against this background, I would like to endorse the proposal. I would also like to thank all those who serve Sweden in various operations abroad, including in Afghanistan, as well as the civilians and those who are locally employed in Sweden.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-177	Mr President, I would like to Kent Härstedt was not here when I made my speech, so I do not think he heard when I told him that it is starting to move a little bit when it comes to corruption in Afghanistan. This year – in the latter part of the year – there have been more than 1,000 trials, where nearly 500 people have been sentenced to prison for up to 23 years. Some 113 million have been recovered because the convicted have been forced to pay back what they have embezzled in various ways. I would like to ask Kent Härstedt a question. We have a reservation where we mention that we think we should set national targets for the Swedish efforts. We said the same thing when it came to Mali, and there the Parliament agreed. We also have targets for Iraq. It is therefore a little strange that the majority do not agree that we are setting targets so that we can evaluate the operation in Afghanistan too, given that Afghanistan is a commitment that we have had for a very long time– we are entering our 16th year in Afghanistan. I therefore find it sad that we did not get a consensus on setting the national targets that we should have in all our foreign efforts. I would like Kent Härstedt to develop his thinking here.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-182	Mr President, I would like to It is very possible that there are flashes of light in terms of corruption, but all international organisations and evaluators regard Afghanistan as one of the world's most corrupt countries. It hasn't changed this year. I can tell you that. But it's good to see some sparkles of light. When it comes to objectives, it is very easy to say but not so straightforward to implement. There is no lack of objectives. Every week and every day, the military defines the efforts to be made on a daily basis. In the humanitarian field, objectives are set for the efforts we are going to make. This is being evaluated, as I know very well. I have chaired a couple of humanitarian organisations, so I know how careful it is with all such efforts. When you talk to our military commanders, as I have done on the ground, it is very clear what the objectives are for the operation. It is therefore not the case that there are no objectives. National targets for what we want to implement in one country are not quite straightforward, because how do you distinguish what Sweden is doing from what others are doing? If a development becomes negative, is it despite what we are doing, because of what we are doing or because we have done something wrong? I've got a pretty good idea of how to work with evaluations – among other things, I've gone to DAC in Paris – and just using goals is a blunt agent.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-188	Mr President, I would like to For me, it becomes even more strange when I look at Tone Tingsgård's investigation into Afghanistan. Had we had more concrete and clear objectives, the investigation would probably have arrived at another result. We say that a prerequisite for an evaluation of good quality is the formulation of concrete follow-up objectives. It is therefore even more strange in my view that the majority do not agree to this in the case of Afghanistan, while in the case of other operations abroad. Neither had the Alliance government set concrete targets when we deployed forces, and that is to be taken on board. But there are things you can do better. That's why we think this is important now. I didn't get an answer to my question. I was given more thought than answers. Kent Härstedt said he's got a good track. Why, then, could you not agree to our proposal? Or is it just because it comes from us that it doesn't get so good? I think it would have been good if we had agreed on the whole proposal, because I think it is important that we decide on proposals put together. This isn't about any small things. We send our Swedish soldiers to dangerous areas of the world. Then it is important that the whole Parliament stands behind, and we do. But this is just such a small part, so there would have been so little will for the majority to say: Yes, we do this.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-194	Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned, I am the one who has been involved in negotiating the long-term aid commitment with the Moderates and Gunilla Carlsson. We set political objectives through our proposals. We set targets for our humanitarian engagement in the country. The money is not distributed by Sida without clear objectives. It is much more streamlined today, so there are clear objectives with every effort being made. It's the same on the military side. There are objectives in every part – political, humanitarian and military. And here is the question of the objectives of our commitment to debate today. I almost think that there is inflation in debates on objectives.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-197	Mr President, I would like to I have a question. The whole time that we have been in Afghanistan, criticism has been levelled at the effort. To some extent, I share the view that it is not easy to set targets in all respects. I also have practical experience of this. The Swedish National Audit Office used the wording that it is almost possible to believe that the aim of the Swedish operation has been to participate, regardless of whether you achieve something concrete for Afghanistan or not. My first question is: Does Kent Härstedt share the criticism of the Swedish National Audit Office? The question was asked here earlier whether we should proceed quickly. Now there are 14 days left. But why is a bill now being presented until 31 December next year? Then we will be here in the debate again. Is it the case that you automatically get an extension every year? Why set such a tight deadline if you are not prepared to take a no here and wind up? We should move that time, no matter what we think of it. My second question then is: should you move that time, or do you expect an automatic extension of the bet?
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-202	Mr President, I would like to On the last issue, I can say that there is broad support and very strong support for engagement in Afghanistan. There is a conviction in us that this will last for a long time. In order to echo what I said in my speech, I think we need to be prepared for this to be a very long effort. It is not possible to just interrupt it, pack it up and go home, but if you have entered into this, you must be prepared to endure until the task has been solved and as long as there is political support for it among the representatives of the people of Sweden. I think we'll have to be prepared to have that direction once we've entered the stake. In the broad agreement on humanitarian aid in Afghanistan, we look very far ahead. This is one of the poorest countries in the world. I would like to ask you a question, Roger Richtoff: Why do you not see the link between refugee flows to Sweden and engagement in Afghanistan? You want to end the engagement in Afghanistan, while you find it unacceptable that there should be flows of refugees to Sweden, something that is quite logical given both the humanitarian situation and the security situation in the country.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-205	Mr President, I would like to The Finnish Immigration Service believes that people can be sent back to Afghanistan. Has the honourable Member missed it? We're not the ones who made this up. It is the Migration Agency that rejects people to Afghanistan. Now we are not going to talk about immigration policy here, but it is a continued influx to Sweden. Our signal policy and our high remuneration – all of this affects the refugee flows to Sweden. What we want to focus on is to help those who live in refugee camps, where we have all been watching. We want to gather for those people who do not survive unless they get help. We have nothing against supporting the people of Afghanistan in other ways. We have 50 men there, and it is claimed that this is long-term. How long? We don't know that. However, I assume, Mr President, that the decision in Parliament will always be that we should extend this effort for a year, because it sets as tight a deadline as 14 days. It's actually a pretty big disregard for Parliament's decisions. What will you do if there is a decision today to phase out the operation? You don't want that. Long-term planning requires planning which will allow this work to be interrupted with reasonable effort. We cannot take responsibility for the flows of refugees throughout the world, and we must set a shorter deadline. If you have no clear objectives, as the Swedish National Audit Office says, you must create the goals and have a timetable for this. We share the view that it may then be changed. We do not want to remove humanitarian aid to Afghanistan and stop helping this people, but we want to do that.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-212	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I do not believe that Roger Richtoff understands the link between security and development cooperation. Security is needed to carry out humanitarian work. Although the Afghanistan Committee has historically been skilled at being in large parts of Afghanistan, it has not been able to operate in the most violent parts of the country in recent times. There is strong and broad support in the Swedish Parliament for and a strong consensus that we should continue our commitment. Many of the parties sitting in here have been present throughout the trip and have supported this commitment. We take responsibility for that too. We are not prepared to withdraw irresponsibly. We also listen to our partners in Afghanistan and other international partners about our engagement in Afghanistan. The engagement in Afghanistan has also been a learning journey for Sweden. My firm opinion is that we went in too late at first. On a larger scale, we need to reflect on how we have acted in Afghanistan, but there is no doubt that Afghanistan needs a great deal of support, both in terms of security and development, well into the future. The dialogue we hold with representatives of the bourgeois parties on objectives and evaluations is important. I believe that this conversation will continue, because it is important that we evaluate and become better at what we do. But we should be in Afghanistan in the long term and stand by our word that we should support them to safety and security.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-217	Mr President, I would like to We are here in connection with the bill for continued Swedish participation in Afghanistan. Since the overthrow of the Taliban regime at the end of 2001, Sweden has participated in a comprehensive international engagement in Afghanistan. The main aim has been to promote peace, strengthen security and assist with the reconstruction of the country. Our commitment has included military, security-building efforts. We also have a long tradition of diplomatic and political bilateral cooperation with the Afghan leadership. We have also been active for a long time, as many here have mentioned, in the country of development cooperation in order to combat poverty and promote stability and democracy. The international commitment in Afghanistan of 2002 is one of the largest in modern times. Sweden has been a small but still important player in this. As far as our own country is concerned, there has been a great deal of commitment and effort. From 2002 until today, nearly 10 000 women and men have contributed to peace-building efforts. Mr President, I would like to Nearly four decades of war have left a deep mark in Afghanistan. We have heard many testimonies, and several members of the committee have also been there to see it. The security situation is serious, and there is armed conflict in many parts of the country. There are major shortcomings in respect for human rights. The armed conflict intensified when the Taliban returned in 2003 and spread over large parts of the country. The problems of the influence of warlords and of corruption, nepotism and lack of governance are well known and difficult to access. It goes without saying that such a difficult and complex situation as in Afghanistan does not turn around in a flash. Long-term and strategic work is needed. There have nevertheless been calls for Sweden to leave Afghanistan quickly. It is believed that we cannot afford and that the results have not been sufficient. We must, of course, highlight the shortcomings in the work that has been done, and the great evaluation that was presented earlier this year is an important contribution to seeing what we can do better in the future. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has also made clear in broad agreement the importance of regular follow-up of ongoing efforts. We have also highlighted the importance of what we call realistic mandates with clear goals and targets and that the Swedish added value in relation to other countries' efforts is given a prominent role in the analysis when entering into efforts. Should we leave Afghanistan in a situation where the conflict is getting worse in scale and intensity and security is the main obstacle to its development? Should we leave the country when we still see suicide attacks and the Afghan security forces are suffering massive losses? I think that is a problem with security policy. As we in the committee write in the report, there have only been over 5 000 civilian victims in the first half of 2017. If no country assists when it's really difficult, what happens then? In the serious security situation, it is our assessment and conviction that Sweden will continue to contribute to the training and counselling operation RSM in support of the Afghan security forces. In a situation where the Afghan Government is actually losing ground to the Taliban and IS, international support is important. We also know that it is being asked by the Afghan Government. It is also important that we see the contribution to the RSM as one of several parts of the broad Swedish commitment to assist Afghanistan in achieving long-term stability in the country. Sweden has extensive development cooperation with a focus on peace building, democratic state building, increased gender equality and strengthened capacity and role for civil society in the field of human rights. I'm in favour of the bill.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-231	Mr President, I would like to I intend to present the government proposal for Swedish participation in NATO's Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan. Previously, Secretary of State Salestrand, Cabinet Secretary Söder and the Swedish Armed Forces have informed, presented and discussed the proposal in the composite committee. There has therefore been an opportunity to obtain basic information on the matter. In recent years, the security situation in Afghanistan has continuously deteriorated. The difficult security situation continues to require military presence and support in the form of training and advice to the Afghan security forces in line with the non-combatant mandate of the RSM. The Afghan Government has asked for continued support. In response to the Afghan Government's request and on the basis of the assessments made regarding soil conditions, it is therefore proposed to maintain the contribution to the RSM in 2018. When I attended the NATO Ministerial Meeting in November, this picture was confirmed. Other contributing countries to the RSM indicated that they maintain or increase their contributions to fill the staffing framework requested by the Operation Commander in order to fully implement their mission. It is important that we all contribute to this objective in order to achieve a better safety situation. Nevertheless, it is important that we continue to work for a civilian-led effort in the future. The time for this is not yet ripe, and conditions on the ground must determine when we can begin to move to this phase. Although the challenges facing the country are many and difficult, the Afghan Government must take its responsibility to move the country in the right direction. Afghanistan's neighbours must also play an active and constructive role in the process. At the same time, the support of Sweden and the international community is a prerequisite for Afghanistan to make progress on the road to peace and democracy. We need to work broadly and in the long term in Afghanistan, and we do so – with political action, aid efforts and military contributions. Sweden's support for state and peace building in Afghanistan is long-term and inclusive. Afghanistan is the largest recipient of Swedish development aid. Sweden as the only country has made a long-term commitment to 2024 with an indicative volume of SEK 8 – 8.5 billion. In the bill now being presented, the Government proposes that the Riksdag allow Sweden's continued participation in the RSM in 2018 with an armed force of up to 50 people on site in Afghanistan. The force shall also be temporarily increased by a maximum of 150 persons in case the grant needs to be evacuated. Just a week ago, I met the soldiers and officers who came home from their operation in Afghanistan. They testified to the value of the effort they had made. In addition to being a small part of the overall goal of an independent and well-functioning Afghan security force, this has also given important experience and competence to the Armed Forces, not least in terms of interoperability with NATO. These experiences will now be used by the Swedish Armed Forces to build national defence capabilities.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-242	Mr President, I would like to The Secretary of Defense wasn't here when I took a line on Kent Härstedt. We in the Alliance have a reservation in which we think that one should look at setting national targets and how to follow it up. We got this through with the Mali bill. In the report on Iraq that we are to debate after this, the whole committee writes that it is the committee's view that the same principles should also apply to other Swedish efforts, including the training effort in Iraq. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Defence: what distinguishes the Afghanistan operation from Mali and Iraq, because we cannot set the same objectives? As I said to Kent Härstedt earlier, I find this extremely strange, because we are going into our 16th year in Afghanistan. That's a long time, and as the Secretary of Defense said, we'll probably be there for a long time. That is why I would like to hear whether the Minister for Defence might have a better answer than Kent Härstedt to why we cannot have the same set of objectives for all our foreign efforts.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-245	Mr President, I would like to I did not attend here from the beginning of the debate because I spoke to 1,200 people at the headquarters conference at a theatre here in Stockholm. I thought it was important to speak in front of the entire staff group. It is an important unit in the Swedish Armed Forces. The objective of the operation, which I know has been discussed between the parties, is set out on p. 8 in the bill: The overall goal of Sweden's strength contribution to the RSM training and counselling effort is to help consolidate the Afghan security forces' ability to manage the country's security independently in the long term. Sweden's objective is to actively promote the implementation of Resolution 1325 as part of the RSM Operation Plan. Sweden shall also ensure that all personnel included in the Swedish grant are trained and have knowledge in the practical application of Resolution 1325. 中 Sweden's goal with participation in the global coalition's military training effort is to contribute to building the capacity of our national war units and staff. The overall objective of Sweden's strength contribution to the RSM training and counselling effort is to contribute to consolidating the Afghan security forces' ability to manage the country's security independently in the long term. ..................................................... I think that these are clear and good objectives. I do not think this leaves anything else to be desired. I think this is a clear and concrete approach. I think it is good that this is set out in the bill, and I know that it has been properly presented in committees and in different contexts and that it has been discussed. This is now on Parliament's table, and I hope that Parliament will support it. I'd be surprised if I didn't.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-254	Mr President, I would like to It was not a criticism of the Minister for Defence but just an information – that I had asked Kent Härstedt about it before. I think it is very good that the Secretary of Defense is speaking before our soldiers, officers and sailors. But I didn't really get the answer anyway. We want international efforts to be evaluated and analysed on an ongoing basis. We have got this through for both the Mali bill and the Iraq bill, which comes later. The question remains open: what distinguishes Afghanistan from Mali and Iraq?
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-256	Mr President, I would like to I believe it is widely known that there has been a comprehensive screening of the Afghanistan operation. Tone Tingsgård has led this work. It was widely presented and discussed here in the Riksdag. An analysis has been carried out in which the whole operation has been properly and thoroughly analysed. Evaluations have been carried out, and I do not think that should be forgotten. I think the objectives set out in the document are clear.
i-3QZU6ZPMRejXhk1j8yZ3Uq	Mr President, I would like to Since 2002, Sweden has participated in military operations in Afghanistan, first through the International Security Force ISAF and since 2015 in the NATO training and advisory operation RSM. We have therefore been involved in military operations in Afghanistan for 16 years. We can be proud of our Swedish soldiers, who, in an exemplary way, are committed to Afghanistan's future. Excellent work has been done on the basis of given conditions, and you have also paid the highest price you can by taking your own losses. But in addition to the price of own losses, it has also been a costly story for Sweden. The operation in Afghanistan has cost more than SEK 9 billion between the thumb and the index finger during these years. At the same time, many years of political mismanagement of our own defence force, which prioritised our own territorial defence for the benefit of international efforts in distant countries, has meant that today we need all the means to build our own territorial defence, capable of facing threats here in our neighbourhood. As far as Afghanistan is concerned, Mr President, we believe that although the Swedish army has carried out an exemplary effort, a further limit must be set for the Swedish commitment there. For 16 years we have had military intervention at a high cost. We believe that the border has been crossed for years. Before the agreement was reached between the former alliance government and the Social Democrats about the Swedish operation within the framework of ISAF, it seemed that the Social Democrats had similar thoughts. In its follow-up motion to the alliance government's bill, they wrote: However, we would like to point out that the aim of the Swedish efforts and ISAF's activities in Afghanistan should be that the Afghan authorities should be able to be responsible for the security of the population as quickly as possible without an international military presence. When this is deemed to be fulfilled, international forces may be withdrawn. ..................................................... I would therefore like to ask the Social Democrats and the Government: Is there any further limit to when the Swedish operation ends? Or should we continue to extend this effort year after year? Does the cost of the operation seem defensible in view of developments in the country? One might think that after these 16 years in the framework of the RSM, the training efforts that Sweden has contributed should enable the Afghans themselves to be responsible for the training of their own security forces. Otherwise, it seems to be a pointless effort – if we are to educate and educate but that they themselves do not take over the training capacity. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to support reservation 1.
i-CSmfjYteA3bUAdZFTVboiS	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your question, Björn Söder! You asked me if there is a more distant point for our engagement in Afghanistan. I assume that this concerns our commitment as a whole: both humanitarian and military. We see our commitment as a whole – political, humanitarian and military. We have entered into a commitment in Afghanistan where we have promised to be a long-term partner. At such a stage, when we engage in this way, the nature of our engagement can shift over time. We have had a mandate from the Swedish Parliament to have 500 soldiers in place during certain periods, with the possibility of up to 900. We have had a humanitarian commitment that has been considerably less, but today this is our absolutely largest aid country. We have also had political developments in the relationship between our countries. We have opened embassies, and we have a continuous political exchange, which we have had during various governments over the years. The answer to your question is therefore: No, there is no defined end point for our engagement in Afghanistan. We have promised to be a long-term partner. Today, we will decide to extend the mandate we are discussing for one year. On the humanitarian side, we have a much longer-term plan, until 2024, but politically we are committed to being a partner far into the future. We will assist Afghanistan in the journey from difficult circumstances to a much safer level.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-269	Mr President, I would like to With regard to humanitarian action, I do not think we are divided. The Swedish Democrats are also because Sweden has proper humanitarian resources and because Sweden provides proper aid to Afghanistan. But you have to be able to separate this. You cannot only see the whole picture, as Kent Härstedt does, in the way that you do not accept or realise that on one side, with the military, you do not get as far as you might want. The Swedish National Audit Office has said that there are no clear objectives and so on. We have an investigation that says that the Swedish operation has not contributed to changing the security situation in a positive sense. Then you have to realise that the military effort may not have been as good as you would have liked. Turning now to an educational effort, that raises a question from me. They train this year after year, and Kent Härstedt says that there is no more time limit. Then we could just as well extend the stake for 10 or 100 years now on bounce. After all, the government assumes that the Riksdag will only pass through the proposal. The question then has to be asked: Should not the training effort lead our Swedish military to train Afghan security forces who, in turn, can maintain their own training system in order to train their security forces? Or should we be there all the time and continue to educate and educate? After all these years and all this money Sweden has ploughed down on the military operation – if we separate it from the humanitarian – it has not contributed in a very positive sense. It's been established. Given that we have limited financial resources and need to make priorities, we may have to realise that, in terms of this money and these efforts, we should give a different priority. Then the Swedish Democrats suggest that we instead prioritise the establishment of the Swedish territorial defence.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-274	Mr President, I would like to Björn Söder says that it must be possible to separate political, humanitarian and military efforts. I do not share this view. On the contrary, I would like to say that there are very good reasons for keeping them together. It is important to see this as a whole in which political reforms in the country against corruption, for human rights, for equality and other things should go hand in hand with humanitarian efforts in which we try to support the building of different sections of civil society through health care, school and education in general. This presupposes security. If there is no security, there are no conditions for the other things. You don't have to keep this apart at all, you have to keep it together. That is our firm opinion, and I believe that there is strong support for this broad approach. As I said, there is no end point. I believe that in all our international engagements we must be humbled by the complexity of many of the places where we are engaged via our Swedish troops and where we are engaged in other ways militarily. This also applies where we are involved politically in mediation or in conflict prevention. You have to be humble. It can almost be attributed to Sweden's democratic naivety or ignorance that one does not understand how complex and intertwined circumstances are in many of these places. But maybe it will.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-277	Mr President, I would like to If an effort turns out to be ineffective or at least not yield the desired result, it must be possible to reconsider. You cannot continue sending troops abroad and continue to fund it when it turns out that it does not contribute. We think that Sweden has made a contribution in Afghanistan. Those who have been there have, with the given conditions, made a good contribution. On the whole, however, it has not produced any results, as the investigation has established. Then you have to realise that it is perhaps time to give priority to other things and let other actors take over. Kent Härstedt says it's naive. But it is naive to think that Sweden will solve Afghanistan's problems. It is the same naive attitude that has characterized Sweden's attitude in recent decades – yes, since Olof Palme's time when one stepped up on high horses, went out into the world and would tell other countries how to behave and how to handle their internal affairs. It is the same naive attitude to believe that Sweden will solve the problems of the whole world. It would have been amazing if it had been like that. It would have been fantastic if Sweden could solve all the world's problems so that we could have a fantastic world where all people live well. But that is not the case, and we have a small, limited resource where we must prioritise. We Swedish democrats think it is wrong to continue the military effort in Afghanistan despite the lack of results. Instead, Sweden should focus on equipping our own defence here at home – and of course continue with the humanitarian efforts we make in Afghanistan. But let others take over their safety, and above all: Let the Afghans themselves take over their own safety through the training efforts they have previously received from the Swedish side!
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-282	Mr President, I would like to The commitment that Sweden has in Afghanistan is long-term. In addition, it began long before the wars that have marked Afghanistan in recent decades began. It is a commitment that is ultimately about supporting the Afghan population and the development of Afghanistan as a country. Thus, for decades, the country has been characterised by wars and conflicts. As a result, the international community has contributed various military efforts in recent years. Sweden has been there for a long, very long time, with humanitarian aid but now also for quite a long time with military support. We do both, and it is important that we do both. In recent years, we have increased humanitarian aid further and reduced military aid. But it is a long-term military commitment we have. This does not mean that we can make decisions and say that the stake is now valid for 5, 10 or 15 years. The long-term ambition is the ambition, and then the situation must as time passes decide how our military action is shaped. It is therefore important that we in Parliament have the opportunity to receive proposals from the government, evaluate them and debate them and determine the next period with the mandate that governs the Swedish military operation in Afghanistan. It is a mandate that is based on international law today on an invitation from the Afghan Government, and that is something that is welcomed by the UN Security Council. What is being done today and will continue to be done is to advise the Afghan security forces. The aim is to enable them to develop so that they can take responsibility for the security of Afghanistan even more than they do today. They face major challenges. They have faced a situation in which the overall international effort has fallen sharply. Unfortunately, this has led to increased violence and increased conflicts in the country. Now we see how the overall international effort is again increasing slightly, even if it is not at all to the sizes that we have seen before. Sweden's contribution is unchanged in terms of number. Yet, it is important and has a role to play. In the work we do, one of the most important things is that we also highlight the role of women in this work. It is in the bill that has now come from the government and in other proposals to focus on the implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1325 on the role of women in peace and security work. This means that we train our own Swedish staff in 1325, and it has also led NATO to include the 1325 work in its training programmes. In the long term, Sweden has definitely had an impact on how women's role in the conflict is recognised. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to ask for the report's approval of the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-289	Mr President, I would like to The reason I asked for a reply at this late stage of the debate is that in the report on p. 9 I have drawn attention to a wording that is of some importance. It is under the heading of the Committee's position, in which the committee states the following: The committee thus notes that the government's formulation of national objectives for the efforts has been improved but that there is scope for further development work with a view to making the objectives follow-up as well. When you read this wording in the report under the position of the Committee on Budgets, it may seem a little strange that a motion tabled by the undersigned for precisely this purpose is not approved. It is not for nothing that the committee is calling for precisely follow-up objectives. With all due respect for the defence minister's list of objectives set out in the bill, which is, of course, about improving the capabilities of the Afghan security forces, implementing Resolution 1325, etc., I agree that these are objectives, but they are not follow-up objectives, which is what the committee is looking for.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-291	Mr President, I would like to I drew attention to the same wording in the text of the report and was also struck by the idea that perhaps the motion should have been approved in this report as well. In the next debate that we are about to come to and which is about the operation in Iraq, we have a broad consensus across the blocs to approve a similar motion. We do not have other ambitions about how the objectives of this operation are to be evaluated or to be able to be evaluated than we have with regard to the Iraq operation. Unfortunately, then, we have not been entirely consistent, as can be seen, in how we have handled the exercise. However, I think that we are consistent in how we view the importance of evaluation and the importance of continuing to develop the objectives. Substantial progress has been made in the way in which the objectives are formulated, and it is, as the committee points out in both these reports, that there are still opportunities to develop these objectives. Then there are other decisions – it is important to remember that – that have been taken here in the Riksdag that is comprehensive about how we should have goals and evaluation of all our international efforts. It is an important basis for evaluating the Afghanistan operation, the Iraq operation and other efforts. As a matter of fact, I think we are quite broad in agreement. Perhaps a more correct approach would have been to approve the motion – I admit it.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-297	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Kenneth G. Forslund for his sincerity on this position. When the chairman of the composite committee says that perhaps it would have been more consistent to approve the motion by the undersigned, I can only say that I feel satisfied and grateful for that message.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-298	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for that recognition from Allan Widman.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-299	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's support for Iraq in the fight against the terrorist cult IS has been greatly appreciated. The training efforts that our country has contributed have meant, on the one hand, an increased opportunity for humanitarian aid to civilians in the country and, on the other hand, an increased opportunity for self-defence where terrorists have struck. The Swedish Democrats are fundamentally in favour of this kind of work and believe that the Swedes who have served in the country deserve a great deal of thanks for their efforts. For a number of reasons, the intervention has mainly been directed to the area around the capital of the KRG region Erbil and the Kurdish region rather than to the rest of Iraq. The KRG region has identified itself with relatively good democratic and economic development and as one of the main and most effective forces against IS. The Kurds have also appreciated the Swedish contribution. When I visited Erbil in May, this was a clear message: Our soldiers have made and made a difference. Last week, Iraq's Prime Minister Haider al-al-Abadi declared that the war against IS is over after forces have taken control of the border area with Syria. IS is completely defeated in Iraq, declared. But it's not that simple. I'm sure everyone understands that. IS is still in Iraq, although the Prime Minister formally declared the war ended. What we've seen is how IS has been pushed back. But we have also seen how IS cells continue to strike in several areas. That is why we believe that there are still reasons to contribute education to the Peshmerga government in Iraq next year. But, and this is a big one, given what has happened in just the last few months, perhaps it is time to start thinking about what will happen after next year. In recent times we have seen the start of what can be described as a new civil war in Iraq. Despite diplomatic mediation efforts by the KRG region, the Iraqi Government has chosen to occupy former KRG-controlled areas. In these attacks, which have consisted largely of Iran-supported Shiamis, American tanks and equipment have been used to combat IS. It is completely unreasonable for Sweden to help support a government that uses international support to hit its own population. For this reason, we believe that the Swedish military contribution through the training effort in Iraq should be directed to the KRG region provided that the support is used as intended and that the KRG continues to try to resolve the new crisis with the Iraqi Government with diplomacy. The aid shall be intended to combat IS and to insure self-defence. We do not believe that the Swedish military training efforts should go to troops directly or indirectly controlled by the Iraqi government in Baghdad. Furthermore, we should now consider a withdrawal under organised forms. The Iraqi Government has, as I said, declared the war against IS to be concluded and Sweden may be at risk of being drawn into a civil war in which, following the invitation of the government, we train the opposite. I suspect that the invitation of the Iraqi Government will not be valid for very long under such conditions. We should also, and this applies to all these efforts, ask ourselves how long it is justified to remain.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-308	When IS invaded northern Iraq and the Nineves plain in 2014, the Kurdish forces and the national Iraqi army fled. The Christian and Yazid people were left to their fate, with horribly similar consequences to genocide. The UN Human Rights Council also stated in a resolution in September 2014 that IS abuses can constitute crimes against humanity and war crimes. The events of 2014 clearly show that the Christian and Yazid people, although they have received important support from the Kurdish Peshmerga forces during the conflict, have no guarantee of support from outside forces. As the policy in Iraq is strongly ethnically emphasised, it is important that all sections of the population have the opportunity to be protected by military forces. Therefore, as long as it remains, the coalition also needs to support the construction of Christians and, at the rate of their formation, Yazidian self-defence groups. Christian and Yazidians are among the weakest minorities in the country, and their ability to defend themselves is a prerequisite for the creation of the autonomous province promised by the Iraqi Government. Mr President, I would like to The UN expert on minority issues has described the development of the area as devastating and irreversible. The war has created a very serious humanitarian situation in some places, and currently there are 11 million people in need of humanitarian aid, while Ocha's compilation shows that aid organisations demand a total of approximately SEK 3 billion to deal with the situation. Compare this with the fact that the new arrivals will cost the Swedish taxpayers more than SEK 60 billion, according to data from Statskontoret. The Swedish Democrats believe that the government should use Sweden's limited resources where they do the most good and greatly increase support for humanitarian efforts in the immediate region of the crisis. This was also exactly what the Kurdish representatives called for during my visit. The Minister for Foreign Relations, Falah Mustafa Bakir, was clear about this after a question about what we in Sweden can assist with. He said, just as we Swedish democrats have been saying for years, that it is better that we help the refugees down there than that they should get to Europe and finally Sweden as it costs so much more to help them in Sweden with our standard of living. We can help so many more down there, was his message. But I can say, Mr President, that the committee chooses to reject our proposal to increase humanitarian intervention in conflict areas. I am, of course, sorry about that. But it is not just a question of increasing humanitarian efforts. In order for the training effort to be able to support the forces effectively, we believe that it should be broadened by the Government investigating needs and opportunities for material support. It is important in this context to stress that it is not war material for combat but other specialized material support. Such support could include communication and healthcare equipment, mobile Internet connections and computers. The visit to Erbil in May revealed precisely the need for material support. When we were in the field and took note of how the Swedish soldiers trained Kurdish peshmerga units in healthcare, among other things, revealed the lack of peshmerga on proper medical equipment. Although they trained to put pressure bandages on Western equipment, since they are unlikely to have access to this in the field, they also had to practice with rags and sticks, which will probably be what they will have access to. Similarly, many of these young soldiers had been allowed to buy their own uniforms and boots because of a lack of resources. I had hoped that more people in the committee would have been able to see – with their own eyes and ears – the need for material support. Unfortunately, however, the committee has chosen to reject our proposal on this too. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to talk about the terrorist organisation, the Islamic State, which has now been expelled from the region. Despite the fact that most of it is laid in ruins, many people want to move back to their homes and try to build a life again. However, houses, churches, hospitals, schools, roads, electricity and most of the infrastructure need to be rebuilt. In addition, they fight Syrians, Assyrians, Chaldeans and others who live in the area to maintain their identities. Most still speak Aramaic – the language spoken in the Assyrian Empire – but as the Christian group becomes smaller, there is also a risk that their language, culture and identity will be threatened. The government should support the minorities who live in the Nineves plain to retain their identities and contribute to the reconstruction after the terrible ravages of Islamists. Support should also be given to those self-defence forces that provide protection and security for the population. It is of the utmost importance that reconstruction of the area is now taking place in order to prevent new conflicts. Mr President, I would like to I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-323	Mr President, I would like to We will take a stand on continued participation in the military training operation in Iraq. It is about a year since we gathered here and took a position on the increase to the current level of 70 people. And today it is an extension. I will be brief because we are three representatives of the Social Democrats to speak, and the Minister for Defence is here. The situation in Iraq is complex and characterised by several intertwined crises. Dependence on aid is high in the country, as a result of developments in the last year when Daish has been driven away successfully from large parts of the region. The way in which they raped both individuals and communities has led to a high level of humanitarian distress. In this situation, Sweden wants to contribute to a positive development in the country and has therefore decided to enter into a long-term aid commitment at a very high level. As we all know, the military efforts to reclaim Daish areas increased in 2016 and 2017. This has led to good results. But for the minority groups mentioned earlier, Daish's ravages have been terrible. The attacks on Yazidians, Christians, Chaldeans and many other minority groups, including Muslim groups, have been terrible. They must not be forgotten. And these groups very much need support and help. I was in Iraq on 1 May 2003. Then the war in Iraq ended officially. I thought about that when I heard Björn Söder ask the government if there is a final point for our engagement in Iraq, as in the debate earlier on whether there is a final point for our military engagement in Afghanistan. I really believe that we must be humbled by the complexity and difficulty of assisting in such complex contexts. The question itself, and the idea behind it, of considering putting an end to commitment without taking account of the reality, not only demonstrates naivety; it also shows that one is not sympathetic to the people who have been affected by all these terrible abuses. It is not enough simply to send aid to people whose entire existence is in ruins because of Daish's ravages. It takes security. We cannot, in this debate, disassemble the different concepts, again, and believe that it is possible to define the end points when you do not know how it will develop. I came to think of 1 May 2003 when I was standing in the market square in Baghdad and George Bush declared the war officially closed. Who knew, then, all that would come and all the terrible events that have taken place thereafter? It was precisely about a lack of security and a lack of much else for that matter too – a lack of functioning institutions, a lack of a functioning legal society and a lack of humanitarian aid. So it takes humility and a capacity for recognition for the people who live in these societies and a prudence when trying to put the end points for engagement, because you don't know at all how the development is going to be in the future. It is important that we remember the people who have been victims of these terrible abuses. Many of them still live on the run, in refugee camps in the Middle East. I've been to Lebanon a couple of times. Many of those who fled Iraq and Syria have gone there. But they are also in Turkey. At first, the situation was quite decent. However, since there has been a long and prolonged conflict, the situation has often become terrible for the refugees. And in some places, not least in Lebanon, a refugee industry has developed where you can make a lot of money from the refugees. For us it is important to understand and feel humility before people fleeing from these terrible circumstances. I think the small contribution we have made has been important. We should be persistent and humble in view of the fact that the situation can change again. We cannot say at all whether this is the end point, decommissioning or whether we need to increase again. With this, I would like to call for approval of the proposal and rejection of the reservations.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-332	Mr President, I would like to My question should perhaps be addressed to the Minister for Defence, but since Kent Härstedt is well acquainted with the policy of his government, I would like to put it to him. It is the same question that I asked in my speech about what plans you have in the future. We are now in danger of finding ourselves in a situation in which we are involved in training two sides that may perhaps resist each other in a future armed conflict, given the situation in Iraq and the relationship between the Kurds and the Iraqis. Is it reasonable for Sweden to train two sides that may be fighting each other? And what are the Swedish government's plans in the future, given how the situation can escalate?
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-335	Mr President, I would like to Now I'm not really in the government, but the guy from the government will be here in a while. But I thank you for the question anyway. As I said in my speech, one must be humble in the face of the situation. Today, the situation is quite different from when we had the discussion in the composite committee a year ago. So I think you should be a little careful about being very firm and very clear about exactly which fork you should get to. We are in close dialogue with our partners and with the governments of the region, with which we have a good exchange. We also have a dialogue with the UN and other troops. I therefore believe that both our government and our defence forces will be able to resolve these issues well. I don't think you should make decisions in advance here either. If those problems arise, then you have to take a stand on them.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-339	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I do not think it is a question of whether the problems come, but of when they come. They will show up sooner or later in view of the problematic state formation that Iraq is. After all, the government must have made a few setbacks depending on how the situation unfolds. Then we from the Swedish Democrats believe that as long as the invitation from the Iraqi Government remains, it is better that we concentrate on training the Kurdish Peshmerga units instead of, as it is now, being open to the Iraqi security forces as well. You might end up in a situation where these two stand against each other. The fact that we have contributed to both sides is probably not a good idea either. Since the Kurds may have a greater concern than Iraq has in terms of their own survival, we think it is better to invest in supporting the Kurds. The Kurds and Kurdistan in the KRG region are an exemplary example of how stability can be built in the region. The resources should primarily be invested there. I'm still a little curious. I can ask the Minister for Defence a question later, but I had hoped that Kent Härstedt would have been able to explain a little bit about how the government views the situation from the point of view of how it develops.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-343	Mr President, I would like to I don't think the answer ends up as far from what I said. You have to feel a sense of humility in the face of the situation. Our commitment and our agreements with our partners are, of course, valid. But changing the situation dramatically makes you feel a humility and take a stand on it when it happens. As I said, things have changed dramatically in a year. I pulled out the timeline even further to show what happened in 2003 and everything that has happened since. It certainly gives us reason to be humble, but also flexible and firm in our long-term commitment. You were talking about the end points and stuff. I don't think you should have that, because then you don't have an insight into how complex and long-term this is.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-346	Mr President, I would like to The Alliance and the Moderates want to see continued Swedish participation in the military training operation in Iraq. I therefore call for the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to be approved. This means that Sweden will also participate in the military training operation conducted by the global coalition against ISIL that is ongoing in Iraq in 2018. The Swedish Armed Forces are proposed to consist of a maximum of 220 persons available until 31 December 2018. However, the situation in Iraq remains very unstable. That is also why the committee proposes that the Riksdag address an announcement to the Government on reporting back. There is so much uncertainty that can affect the effort, and this means that we see an extra need for regular reporting from the government to the Riksdag. The committee also wants the Riksdag to announce to the Government that the national objectives of the operation should be follow-up. We know the story in Iraq. It has been a very cruel reality that has exposed people to death and suffering of a rare kind. After several years of terrorist attacks in Iraq, the Islamic State, Da i sh, made in 2014 a series of rapid and extensive conquests of territory and resources in Iraq. From January to June 2014, Da in sh cities occupied al- Falluja, Mosul, Tikrit, Tal Afar and several other cities. Mass executions and mass exodus followed. At the end of June 2014, Da i sh proclaimed his caliphate, allegedly leading all Muslims. Daish's progress and activity have been marked by a senseless cruelty. Now that the caliphate is said to be defeated, responsibility must also be required for all the bestial abuse that has been going on. At the end of June 2014, Iraq asked the UN for help. In September 2014, the United States began the formation of a global coalition against Daish. Sweden joined soon afterwards, in September. In June 2015, this House decided that Sweden would participate in the military training operation now under way in Iraq at the invitation of Iraq. 69 countries contribute to this effort, and the entire coalition's efforts include training and training of defence forces in Iraq and Syria. Mr President, I would like to Much progress has been made since we last debated this issue in this House. Last summer, Iraqi government forces withdrew the initiative. Daish was driven out of the city of Al-Fallujah. In October of the same year, Iraqi government forces, together with allies, launched an offensive to reclaim Mosul. After nine months of fighting, Iraqi troops, together with allies, took control of Mosul and the symbolic al-Nuri-Nuri mosque. At the end of November this year, the Iraqi Prime Minister announced that Daish had been removed from Iraq from a military perspective. On the same day, the President of Iran announced that Daish was defeated. Thus the caliphate had failed. The groupings of Daish that remain no longer have control over any cities. They are no longer a territorial force to be reckoned with. Despite this, however, the threat from Daish will remain in the form of the use of other methods. To say today that the problem is solved is far from the truth. Mr President, I would like to After Daish lost control of northern Iraq, the KRG – the Kurdish region of northern Iraq – decided to hold a referendum on independence. The government of Baghdad claimed that the vote was contrary to the country's constitution. The UN Security Council called on Kurdish self-government to suspend the referendum. Neighbouring countries were also very negative to it. But it was carried out. After the referendum, Iraqi government forces withdrew the so-called disputed areas under Kurdish control. This has meant that Kurdistan has been isolated from the outside world, and the President resigned on 1 November. On 20 November, the referendum was declared illegal by the Iraqi Supreme Court. When Daish, the common enemy, is defeated, the tensions and conflicts within Iraq have once again surfaced. That is what makes this effort both complex and unpredictable. In previous speeches here it was described that there is a risk that not only Swedish forces but other forces in the coalition might end up in a situation where one might be forced to choose sides. That is why it is extremely important for the government to follow this very closely and come back to Parliament and report back. There are also some changes in the proposi tion. The government proposes an extension of the task, so that it includes not only training but also protection and guarding. It is also proposed that the Swedish forces should be able to operate in more places, at all the bases of the coalition. It is of course extremely important here that this should be preceded by a thorough analysis of safety. We from the Riksdag are very concerned about this. It would have been good if the government had been able to describe the need for training for the Iraqi forces to develop over time. There is a possibility that the entire operation may turn into a new phase, the so-called fourth phase, in 2018. The question is what the needs will then be like and how this affects the operation. This is why the committee wants the government to return to Parliament with a report. Mr President, I would like to There is an incredible need for continued support for Iraq. There is a need for reconstruction and support in everything that has been destroyed during this time. Not least people and communities, but also infrastructure and institutions need to be restored. It is good that Sweden is supporting Iraq, in terms of both aid and civilian reconstruction, and that we continue to pursue what we have embarked on, namely to contribute to the fight against international terrorism. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-362	Mr President, I would like to I will present the Government's proposal for Swedish participation in the coalition's educational effort in Iraq. State Secretary Salestrand, Cabinet Secretary Söder and the Swedish Armed Forces have previously been on the composite committee and presented and discussed the bill. The Prime Minister of Iraq declared last weekend Daish defeated in Iraq. It is a military victory, but the fight is far from over. Daish is an organization that stands for barbarity and inhumanity. The international coalition, to which Sweden contributes, has continued to play an important role in the long-term fight against Daish. Iraqi defence forces will remain in need of training to maintain security in the country, ensure that Daish does not regain territorial control and resist asymmetric threats from Daish. It is therefore important that Sweden continues to stand together in this joint effort. The government has proposed a continued Swedish contribution to the coalition. The Government proposes that the Swedish contribution be given an increased mandate in terms of both geographical location and the type of tasks that can be carried out. With Prime Minister Al-Abadi's statement last weekend, it becomes even more important to be flexible in order to remain a relevant and credible partner in the coalition. The Government therefore proposes that the Swedish contribution, in addition to education, should be able to contribute with abilities for protection and supervision of the coalition's educational sites. This, together with the Swedish contribution being able to operate on all bases of the coalition, ensures that Sweden will remain a credible, responsive and active part of the coalition. Sweden's commitment to Iraq is broad and long-term. Our Iraq policy follows three main tracks. The first is political and aims to support long-term and sustainable solutions through an inclusive political process. The UN has a particular central role to play in supporting this work. We therefore support UNamis and the UNDP's efforts for national reconciliation through both political and financial means. The second track in our support for Iraq is aid. Sweden is a major humanitarian donor to Iraq and is one of the largest donors of unallocated support to the core budgets of UN humanitarian organisations. The flexible nuclear support allows humanitarian actors to act quickly and effectively to respond to humanitarian needs in crises such as that in Iraq. Sweden also provides significant targeted support through Sida. This aid amounted to SEK 188 million in 2017. During the year, we also launched a new five-year strategy for Iraq with a focus on peace-building, state-building and gender equality, covering up to SEK 1 billion. The third track is the military, which aims to assist the Iraqi defence forces so that they can defeat and resist and combat Daish in the long term. International law and human rights are an integral part of our operation as well as Security Council Resolution 1325. It is important that there is a broader approach than the strictly military approach to dealing with the political root causes of the conflict. The international community has a responsibility to assist Iraq in this. The territory withdrawn must now be stabilised. Sweden also contributes here, including through our support to UNDP's stabilisation fund, which so far amounts to SEK 90 million. In the short term, this means the reconstruction of infrastructure and the provision of basic public services, not least in order to enable the return of internally displaced persons. In the long term, inclusive political and economic reforms are needed to enable national reconciliation and prevent the emergence of new terrorist groups or Daish from re-establishing. Sweden has been a driving force in the establishment of the EU civilian operation EUAM Iraq, EU Advisory Mission in support of Security Sector Reform in Iraq, whose aim is to support the civilian aspects of security sector reform in Iraq. We know this is necessary, and here Sweden will play a role. We will contribute six people to this effort. Since Mosul fell in July this year, the Iraqi offensive against Daish accelerated, and now the Iraqi Prime Minister, as I mentioned earlier, has declared Daish military defeat. Our mission, however, is not ready. In order to create the conditions for a lasting victory against Daish, more than just military means are required. As I have previously explained, Sweden is also an important contributor to this. Without development and inclusion, Iraq will remain poorly equipped to withstand extremism, such as Daish. We must be clear that these are difficult missions, the area is dangerous and the situation is complex with many different types of security threats, which have regional ramifications and implications. It is therefore important that in Parliament, when sending men and women on this kind of mission, one is clear with one's unequivocal support, that one stands up for what one has done and what is necessary. There is an extremely important thing to say: We get an important experience capital for the Swedish Armed Forces when we participate in various types of international operations. Although the focus is on national defence, the expertise created in practice from international operations has a direct positive effect on Swedish defence capabilities. That is my firm opinion. Sweden builds security together with others, and Sweden's participation in OIR is an example of this.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-379	Mr President, I would like to I was going to ask the Minister for Defence the same question I asked Kent Härstedt earlier. I would like answers on how the government is considering how Iraq has taken former Kurdish-controlled areas in view of the developments that we have seen in the region in recent months. We are now in danger of training two sides that may be opposed to each other in an armed conflict. There must be some thought in the government about how to act in case a scenario becomes a reality where it all escalates into open armed conflict.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-382	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, we do not take a position between different parts of this situation, but see ourselves as part of a coalition in which we carry out the tasks assigned to us within the framework of the agreements made in the coalition. Secondly, in my main speech, I said that we are working on several tracks. The first is a political track, the second is a humanitarian track and the third is the military track. But in practice there is also a diplomatic trail. Both the KRG and the Iraqi side have clearly stated that they will resolve any internal conflicts through dialogue. Peshmerga is also part of the overall security situation, also from the perspective of the Iraqi Government. On the basis of the tracks I have described, as well as the diplomatic role that I have highlighted here, the idea is that we should be able to manage the tasks within the framework of the coalition in a good way. We do not take sides in this.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-386	Mr President, I would like to I would like a brief answer from the Minister for Defence to the question: Is it reasonable for Sweden to train two sides that are at risk of opposing each other in an armed conflict?
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-387	Mr President, I would like to I have just explained how complex this can be. We're working on these different tracks. I mentioned three in my main speech. Then there is a diplomatic dimension. I have also explained the view of both the KRG and the Iraqi side: that any problems should be solved internally through dialogue. That's how we have to deal with it. I do not think it is particularly edifying or constructive to take a unilateral position in this context. We are part of an international coalition, and we are dealing with various tasks within this framework.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-388	Mr President, I would like to Recently there were reports that Daish's territorial control over Iraq is over. The Iraqi Government now claims to have full control over the border with Syria, and all Daish's strongholds should have been taken back. The fact that the terror cult Daish is no longer in control of any significant cities in Iraq is excellent. Unfortunately, however, Iraq's problems are far from being resolved. Daish's sympathizers and other Salafist groups are still present and active in both Iraq and Syria. The Syrian conflict continues and contributes to great uncertainty in neighbouring countries. At home there is a multi-tud of political challenges for the Iraqi government to deal with. At the top of the list should be to establish a better functioning relationship with the Kurdish minority in the north. Terror attacks and all other serious security problems are still common. In short, the security situation is still very sensitive. It is in this light that Sweden and other countries' contributions to Iraqi security should be seen. The bill proposes that Sweden continue to stand with a force of 70 men to improve the security situation in Iraq. The Swedish soldiers will help train Iraq's own security forces to build up their ability to manage their own security in the longer term. For a long time, Sweden has had troops in place in Iraq. The House now has to decide on an extension of this. However, some things have changed since we last made decisions. Not least, tensions between the Iraqi central government and the Kurds in the north have increased, which means that we need to monitor the situation on the ground more closely. In the event of a situation in which our troops need to leave the country in order to ensure their safety, an additional evacuation force of up to 150 people will be added to quickly get all our personnel and equipment out. Sweden is a country that wants and can take international responsibility. That is what we are doing with our development policy and our foreign policy. We also do so by participating in this type of international effort. By forming part of the broad coalition of countries supporting the Iraqi Government, we are helping to build security together with others, just as we are doing in many other places around the world. Sweden's contribution to this type of effort is important. Swedish soldiers have a high level of competence, both within the military aspects as well as within, for example, gender issues and human rights. If we can help to spread that knowledge and thereby increase Iraq's stability and ability to manage its own security, then that is very much the case. The influx of refugees in recent years clearly shows that the conflicts of the Middle East cannot be regarded as a problem that does not concern us. On the contrary, Sweden is also highly affected by the security situation in Iraq, for example. It is therefore in the interests of both the Swedish and the Iraqi people that the country's security apparatus be strengthened, so that it can move away from the long-standing conflicts and into a period of freedom, security and prosperity. With that, Mr President, I support the proposal in the report.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-392	Mr President, I would like to The situation in Iraq, as has been demonstrated by the previous speeches, is very tricky – unstable, we say. It is an Iraq that is also in a very unstable region where there are many actors with their own interests. This means that stabilisation in Iraq itself also means stabilisation in the region as a whole. Sweden has participated with military personnel in training and advising the Peshmergan as part of the Iraqi security forces. I think it is important to emphasise this. It's Iraq's security forces we're training. We've been both in Baghdad and Erbil. We have done this at the invitation of the Iraqi Government, and that is the mandate of international law, the basis for our presence. We are also doing this as part of the international coalition to fight Daish. Here, too, I would like to stress the importance of our being both involved in stabilising and helping to rebuild. This is true in Iraq, as in other countries where we participate militarily. Here, as has also been mentioned before, we have a reconstruction effort. 1 billion will be invested during the period 2017 – 2022, and this is an important part of our responsibility. We usually talk about the responsibility to protect, and that is what it is all about in all three parts of that context. However, the bill that we now have to deal with and to which we request approval amends some of the prerequisites for the Swedish contribution, which has previously been fully focused on the training of Iraqi defence forces in northern Iraq. It is now also possible to include protection and surveillance at the coalition's training and grouping sites. That, of course, changes the picture a little. There is a risk that the effort will be fragmented in several places, and that is not a large group we have. This changes the situation. We also see, of course, the security challenges, both in Iraq and in the immediate region. The lack of clarity about the coalition's efforts must be taken very seriously. This also applies to the participation of other countries. We have heard that Germany has a shorter mandate than Sweden now enters into for this effort, and it is clear that this type of change may also play a role for our Swedish presence, just as for the coalition as a whole. The fact that the operation is phased out is also important. Now that Daish has been defeated, the mission is scheduled to move from phase three to phase four. It should be about support and stabilisation. It should move from large-scale unit training to training in order to maintain law and order and counter asymmetric threats. The precise design of this operation shall be carried out in liaison with the Iraqi authorities. Precisely when this will happen, there is still no clarity about it, but I assume that what has happened over the past week and the Prime Minister's statement will have an impact in this part. The Swedish Force Grant amounts to a maximum of 70 people in place for 2018, unless something happens that means that we have to go in with a reinforcement. Here, too, I would like to emphasise what has been said before: it is important that we do not become part of any internal conflict in Iraq and that we seem to be stabilising with our presence. This applies not least to the protection of 1325 and the protection of human rights. We'll be an eye and an ear in place to follow this. We see that it is the rights of minorities that have been trampled on, and it has helped to build up the conflict in many respects. I would like to emphasise here that there have been horrendous abuses during the Daish ravages in Iraq against Yazidians, Christians, Kurds, but also Shia Muslims, who should not be forgotten in this context. There are many wrongs that have been committed and which in themselves are a basis for future conflicts if they are not taken care of. Uncertainty requires that we from the Swedish side be careful with the future. We, on the part of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, have landed in a mission to the government to return. It's welcome. Under paragraph 2, the entire composite committee has agreed to ask the government to return to the Foreign Affairs Committee to inform and clarify whether the conditions have changed as a result of the uncertainties. On this point, I should like to touch briefly on another issue. I have listened to the Swedish Democrats and read their reservation. They're implying that we'd only be in northern Iraq. The question is, on what invitation? It's from the Iraqi government. Would we take the mandate of international law from the Kurdistan Government? What is the current state of the Kurdistan government, given the situation with a President who has resigned and elections that have not been held? We see that the Peshmergan is also internally divided. There are different pictures from different groups. There's a power struggle going on. It would be sending out Swedish soldiers in a very uncertain situation. It would also lack a mandate under international law, if the Swedish Democrats did not have a special agreement with the Iraqi Government. In other words, I am calling for that reservation to be rejected. Finally, I would like to touch on the wording of objectives here too. It is good that on this point we have been able to agree to urge the government to move forward and make the objectives follow-up and to develop the objectives. I welcome the fact that the whole committee has supported the demands of the Alliance in this part too. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-403	Madam President, I would like We have an invitation from the Iraqi Government to participate in the operation. How long it will last, we do not know what the situation is like. Now the Prime Minister claims that IS is defeated. At the same time, we are seeing the situation that is developing between the Kurds and the Iraqi Government. So far, there is a mandate we have to work on. I believe that we should reserve the right to choose where we want to place our soldiers. We've been to Erbil before. We extended the geographical mandate quite recently. We believe from the Swedish Democrats that we should now focus on Kurdistan and to help the Kurds in the first place as long as the invitation remains. I believe, as I said, that it will end quite soon. Then Kerstin Lundgren says that the development in Kurdistan is worrying. Yes, it is. During my visit last spring, I visited the Kurdish Parliament in Erbil. I listened to both the government side and the opposition side. Everyone there was convinced that the minor conflicts in Kurdistan, or KRG, would be resolved politically. They did not want to risk the situation they had in the 1990s with a bloody civil war. That was everyone's firm conviction. With help from the outside world, Iraqi Kurdistan can act as a stable region in a rather troubled environment and set an example. Therefore, we should also focus on helping the Kurds at this stage.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-409	Madam President, I would like I hear that Björn Söder and the Swedish Democrats obviously believe in what they hear from the KRG. But what does he hear from the Iraqi government? The mandate is given by the Iraqi Government. Does Björn Söder think that the Iraqi government gives a mandate to just be and support the Peshmergan and take a stand? That is what the Swedish Democrats are saying. They do not want to be a party and in that way take a stand. But they want to make it clear that only the Peshmergan and the KRG are to be supported and not the Iraqi Government. The starting point is that the Swedish Democrats want us not to participate in something about the Iraqi Government. I do not understand at all what mandate the Swedish democrats are looking at. From whom are we going to get the mission to send Swedish soldiers to KRG to continue to do what, to educate? The fight against Daish is over. Now it is to support the KRG in the fight against the Iraqi Government. That is how you have to perceive the mark of the Swedish Democrats.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-412	Madam President, I would like With the attitude that Kerstin Lundgren has, I do not understand why she wants Sweden to remain down in Iraq at all. There is a mandate. We have received an invitation from the Iraqi Government to be there to train the Iraqi security forces, including the Peshmerga units. Before we expanded the geographical area, we had the location in northern Iraq in Erbil. That's no wonder. That we now choose to continue in Erbil and above all focus on the peshmerga units for the purpose that the invitation admits is not something strange. It is more strange that we cannot suddenly say that we are only focusing on Erbil when we have been able to do so in the past, but now the whole of Iraq and also the other Iraqi security forces. We must be able to choose where we want to place our soldiers on the basis of the mandate we have been given. In that mandate there is that we can choose to place our soldiers in Erbil, as we did earlier, and we can choose to focus on training the peshmerga units. I would like to ask Kerstin Lundgren a question. That's the same question I put to the Secretary of Defense. Is it reasonable for Sweden to contribute to training two sides that will soon be able to stand in an armed conflict against each other?
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-417	Madam President, I would like I just heard there were two sides that would stand against each other. One side obviously wanted to support the Swedish democrats. Our position is the same as that of the government. We are taking part in strengthening the security forces and security in Iraq as a whole. When we see that we are going to phase four, which is about building law and order and resisting asymmetrical threats, it will be planned in conjunction with the Iraqi authorities. It can't happen in just a few things. There must be consensus throughout the global effort. Sweden is part of a major effort. Sweden does not make its own unique contribution. That's the point of departure. We are also here part of a greater effort. This means that we must act together and hopefully move into phase four in the coming year.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-420	Madam President, I would like As mentioned earlier, Iraq is a country whose modern history has been paved by dictatorship, conflict and unrest. Saddam Hussein's tyranny, the war with Iran, the invasion of Kuwait with the subsequent first Gulf War left its mark on the country during the 1980s and 1990s. After the attacks in the United States on 11 September 2001 and after alleged weapons of mass destruction were found in Iraq, American troops invaded the country in 2003, completely in violation of international law. After the US-led invasion, a brutal occupation of Iraq took place. Bombs involving civilian deaths, systematic torture, murder, and rape became almost daily. The now infamous images from the Abu Ghraib prison, which show American soldiers demeaning and torturing Iraqi inmates, are a reminder of the cruelty of occupation. Iraq is still a country characterised by the occupation of the United States, although it is now formally completed. The institutions are weak, and confidence in the government is weak. Torture is still widespread and the possibility of working in trade unions is extremely limited. Violence is still widespread and affects Iraqi society as a whole. Christian and LGBTQ people are two groups that have been hard hit by violence and attacks in recent years. The current bloody civil war in Syria and Daish's previous presence in the country have also contributed to the problems in Iraq. Madam President, I would like In a letter from Iraq's then Foreign Minister to the UN Secretary-General on 25 June 2014, Iraq called for assistance in combating Daish, including through training support and material support for the Iraqi defence. On 15 August of the same year, the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 2170. This operation is supported by international law with the request of the recognised government of Iraq. International aid is always a necessary condition for the Left Party to support this type of effort. The Left Party supports the Government's proposal for a Swedish armed force to participate in the military training operation by the end of December 2018, in particular to ensure that all minorities in Iraq are treated with the respect of international law specified in human rights. The Swedish contribution is not so great numerically, but the important thing is what you succeed with and that you actually contribute to strengthening security in Iraq. The international coalition against Daish has thus been aimed at combating Daish and stabilising Iraq. Now that Iraq's Prime Minister, Haider al-al-Abadi, has declared the war against Daish in Iraq over, we in the Left believe that it is important to ensure that Iraq changes from the fight against Daish to a lasting peace in an Iraq where respect for human rights is self-evident and where the military does not turn against the country's minorities. We therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-427	Madam President, I would like I'll be very brief. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Not least the example of Afghanistan has taught us all in this House that military victory and real security are two completely different things. There also seems to be broad agreement that there are underlying tensions in Iraq and its immediate vicinity, which, in the event of a military victory over Daish, are in danger of becoming more transparent. There are two announcements from the committee. The first concerns what is mentioned in every international effort, namely that the objectives set by the government for our military operations must be pursued only. I am pleased that the committee agrees on this point. More remarkable is that in his speech, Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist chose not to comment on this point at all. I assume that the government will listen to the Riksdag, especially when it agrees. Paragraph 2 deals with regular reports to the Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs. It will take place in March, June and September next year. This underlines the seriousness with which the composite committee views the situation in Iraq and how volatile it is. In his speeches on Afghanistan and the operation in Iraq, the Minister for Defence has stressed that Sweden learns interoperability through participation. It owns its accuracy. This teaches our military units on site in Afghanistan and Iraq. However, I think it is well worth emphasising that our main motivation in terms of participation in peace-promoting activities is to ensure that conflicts and uncertainties do not spread and that our fellow human beings have a humanitarian responsibility.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-431	Madam President, I would like What we are discussing here is the continued Swedish participation in the military training operation in Iraq. First of all, let me say that I welcome the fact that the committee has supported the Alliance's request for announcement on reporting back, i.e. that the government should report back on 31 March, 30 June and 30 September 2018 on the design of the operation, and that it should only follow objectives. It's important. It is about a Swedish armed force, consisting of a maximum of 70 people, being available on site in Iraq until 31 December. It is at the invitation of the Iraqi Government that we are there to help in the fight against the terror cult Daish/ IS. The background is that in June 2014, in a letter to the UN, the Iraqi Government asked for help in combating the terror cult. Education support and material support were requested for the Iraqi defence. In September of the same year, the United States announced the formation of a coalition against the terrorist organisation IS, and shortly thereafter Sweden joined the coalition. So we are there to prevent and counter terrorist acts committed by IS/ Daish. Over the past year, I am pleased to say, there have been great successes. The terrorist cult has gradually been pushed away from Iraq. It's good and pleasant. But I would also like to remind you that, in the shadow of the coalition's military victories over the Islamic State, a tragedy of historical proportions is about to occur. The indigenous people who have inhabited what we are today calling Iraq for thousands of years are about to disappear forever from the region. I am thinking of the fact that since 2003 the number of Chaldeans, Syrians and Assyrians, that is, Christians, has fallen from 1.5 million to around 200 000. Their ancient buildings on the plain of Nineves have been completely or partially destroyed. The fact that the people of the Nineves plain were left to their fate by both the Kurdish p eshmerga n and the Iraqi forces at the advance of the Islamic State in 2014 has created among Christians a distrust of Erbil and Baghdad. Although the pace of reconstruction would increase, many hesitate to return before a long-term security solution is in place. The local population's staffing of police and military personnel in the area is therefore a crucial part of ensuring refugees and internally displaced persons the right to return. According to a decision of the Government of Iraq 2014, the Nineves Plain is to be transformed into a province. This means that the area will no longer be governed within the framework of the present province of Nineve. The Iraqi central government has had to focus on the survival of the state, and a functioning political solution for the Nineves plain has therefore not yet been realised. The Christian Democrats believe that Sweden could act proactively and initiate a dialogue with Baghdad in order to light up and save the continued existence of an extremely vulnerable minority group in Iraq. In addition to providing administrative support for the construction of a functioning province on the plain of Nineves, we believe that Sweden, within the framework of the coalition's stabilisation support in the future, should also offer the Iraqi Government to train residents of the Nineves plain for service within the framework of Iraqi security forces and Iraqi police. Finally, I would like to express my thanks to the soldiers and personnel from Sweden who are present in Iraq for the magnificent work they have done and are doing. I would also like to express my thanks to their relatives who are at home in Sweden. I wish them a Merry Christmas.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-440	Madam President, I would like The Swedish operation in Iraq is part of an international effort to combat the terror cult Daish. Sweden is one of 69 countries participating in the international effort. The Iraqi Government has welcomed the international effort in a letter to the UN Security Council, and the UN Security Council calls on the international community to contribute in every way possible to the fight against Daish. The Swedish effort is focused on training peshmerga soldiers but is now being expanded, with this decision, to the possibility of also working with protection and surveillance in the international effort. This demonstrates the importance of taking regular and regular decisions on the design of the operation. It is about having the opportunity to make changes over time. It is not possible to say that we should take a decision that will apply for two, three, five or ten years, but it is about constantly monitoring the situation and changing the work done and the effort that Sweden is making based on how the situation changes. In the report of the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, there is broad agreement on continuing to develop the objectives of the Swedish efforts. We have worked for a number of years to develop them. The Government has taken significant steps to clarify and develop the objectives. There are also general objectives for all operations in which Sweden participates, both military and civil. This is an ongoing improvement effort. And on the basis of the motion of the four bourgeois parties, we broadly agree in committee to continue that work. We have also decided in broad agreement that there should be regular reporting back to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, also on the basis of the bourgeois motion that exists. One can say in a way that it is not really necessary, because there is always an opportunity for a committee and for Parliament to ask for information. And it is not that we have not received any reports before. However, the current situation in Iraq and the uncertainty that we all feel about further developments make it particularly urgent to receive regular reporting. The decision that we propose that the Riksdag take today should be seen as a special emphasis on this with reports. Madam President, I would like I would like to add my voice to Mikael Oscarsson's thanks to the staff. I would like to extend it to a thank you also to the staff involved in the operation in Afghanistan that we debated earlier. These are important tasks that Swedish women and men do and sometimes ultimately risk their lives in. This applies to both military and civilian operations. It is important to remember this and to show our appreciation for the staff involved in a very good way. They make very professional and committed efforts. I would like to support the proposal contained in the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence with regard to the continuing effort in Iraq. Madam President, I would like I would like to thank all those in the two committees, who have worked together on this, for their good cooperation and vigorous exchanges of views. Finally, I wish all of us a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-448	Madam President, I would like I visited Erbil and the Swedish contribution in May. We were out watching how they trained the Kurdish peshmerga units in medical care. It was reported that many of the Kurdish soldiers died of pre-bleeding. They didn't have the skills to put pressure bandages. They also did not have equipment to be able to put pressure bandages. In the past, we have heard representatives of the Social Democrats and the Minister for Defence say that one looks at the whole – political support, humanitarian aid and military support. In a motion in connection with the bill, we have asked that the needs and possibilities for material support, such as medical equipment, be investigated. The text of the report responds to this motion with talk about how much Sweden contributes in humanitarian aid to Iraq. The material support we are asking for is not mentioned at all. I would like to put a question to Kenneth G. Forslund, who is the chairman and representative of the Committee on the Government's side: what is one's view on examining the need for and possibilities for material support, for example in the form of medical equipment? That is what is very much in demand.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-451	Madam President, I would like Björn Söder had the opportunity to visit the Swedish operation. It is an opportunity that several other members of Parliament have also been given and taken. This is important in order to provide feedback to Parliament and to the work we are doing in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in the Committee on Defence and in the composite committee. It is about getting knowledge about what the prerequisites for the implementation of the actions are. The discussion on support for Peshmerga materiel that Björn Söder has raised has at least previously been very focused on the fact that we would provide support in the form of military materiel, i.e. arms. It is something that has been rejected in the past. On the other hand, there is another thing about this type of aid, which may well be said to be more humanitarian. The question is whether this cannot be accommodated within the humanitarian aid we provide. I do not see an obvious contradiction or conflict. We tend to be careful to keep humanitarian and military operations separate. At the same time, we must coordinate them. Of course, in this case one can consider how this would be possible. It is actually Björn Söder who will ask the questions in this change of line. But for a purely knowledge-taking purpose, I still ask Björn Söder: Has Björn Söder identified anything that prevents us from contributing first-aid kits in humanitarian aid, for example?
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-455	Madam President, I would like No, I don't think so. Perhaps humanitarian aid could include it as well. But then the committee might have been able to express it more clearly in the text. Allan Widman was on the previous report on how the committee had dealt with the follow-up of objectives and the like. In the same way, perhaps this text could have made it clear how it looked at this. Since this effort came about, we in the Swedish Democrats have been clear that we want material support while increasing humanitarian aid. But it must not refer to weapons of war. Unlike the Liberals, who have made it clear that they want armaments subsidies, we have been very clear that this should not have to do with armaments. As I said in my speech, it is about medical equipment. But it is also about such basic things as uniforms and boots. It may not count as humanitarian aid, but it is not armaments either. We know since we were there that soldiers even get to buy their own uniforms and boots because there are no resources. It is also an example of material support that we could provide. I think that the majority of the committee could have been a little clearer in the text of the report when it comes to a positive view of this. Now you just reject the exercise right up and down. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to wish the President and other Members of this House a very happy Christmas and a happy New Year!
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-460	Madam President, I would like Handing out uniforms and boots, I think, will be difficult to record as anything other than military equipment. I therefore do not believe that we have the opportunity to move forward, although I share Björn Söder's view that the need is absolutely there. With regard to humanitarian aid and the possibility of providing medical supplies, for example, I think it is reasonable for us to find out in the follow-up work whether it is possible to do so within the framework of the humanitarian aid that we are giving to Iraq.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-462	Ladies and gentlemen! This far into the parliamentary term, you know what I, as President, think is most important. The most important part of my Presidency is to give you Members the best possible conditions to shape and get your policies out. Together with the group leaders and the administration, we turn on forms of debate, review working methods, streamline and try to modernise. During the parliamentary term, we have, among other things, removed the uprisings at votes and changed the forms of the Prime Minister's Question Time, and we have also changed the forms of ordinary Question Time. I hope you have noted that there are more Members than before at Question Time and that there are more Members than before who also have the opportunity to ask their question. We have made the current debates real. New for this year is that we have re-examined the debates on the areas of expenditure. We have simply put the planning in a completely different way. This means that, even before the summer recess, each committee had a preliminary debate day to start from in its own planning. As a result of this approach, we have been able to spread spending debates better in several days and have not had to debate major policy areas in late evenings. There have been plenty of late sittings in this House before. But today, on 15 December, all matters have been discussed and decided without a single expenditure debate ending later than 9.30 p.m. It's unique. Why are we all making these changes? Of course, it is in order to put you Members at the centre and give you the opportunity to debate in the best way and also in a slightly more reasonable time. We try to make the Riksdag an even more political arena with small but smart adjustments. This is now the last time the House in this composition is separated for a Christmas break. There will be intense days in spring and summer. What is now before us is the very nerve of our activities as politicians: the election movement and meetings with voters. Then comes the election day – the manifestation of our democracy. We in Parliament will also celebrate democracy extra much. In 2018, Parliament's celebration begins on the fact that it has been a hundred years since the breakthrough of democracy in Sweden. I hope and believe that you all want to take an active part in that celebration. Ladies and gentlemen! There is one person in this House today to whom I would like to address a few specific words. Åsa Romson has during her time in the Riksdag been a member of the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture. Where else? That she was on that particular committee, I would have almost dared to guess without looking at my papers! She has also been Chairman of the EU Board, and of course we know Åsa Romson also as spokesperson for the Environmental Party, as Minister for Climate and Environment and as Deputy Prime Minister. Climate and environmental issues naturally go as a green thread through Åsa Romson's political commitment and person. Nature often highlights Åsa Romson politically, but that's also where she likes to be: on a bicycle or on long-distance skates, for example. The global perspective is a matter of course for a climate-related politician like Åsa. She has been locally active as a group leader for her party in Stockholm. Abandoning her time as a Tockholm politician, she was a driving force for environmental issues and congestion charges. Sp mugging may seem large between the S tockholm issues and the Paris Agreement, which she negotiated and signed on behalf of Sweden – but it is the same drive and knowledge that lies behind the two. Åsa Romson is a skilled and determined negotiator. She played an important role in the climate negotiations in Paris when she mediated on climate adaptation issues, which was a key role in the negotiations and a key piece of the puzzle of an agreement that was so ambitious and good. Åsa Romson worked not only through contacts, a winning way and commitment; she was also a politician who not only trusted the officials' knowledge during international climate negotiations. M steam times she could as much or even more. And it must be admitted that not many of us have defended in environmental law. It is easy to talk about Åsa Romson as a fearless and targeted politician who has never hesitated to take the debate. I have mentioned the commitment, but I would also like to highlight a couple of qualities that many people think characterize Åsa. It is warmth and concern for others – probably so important in the world of politics. Åsa Romson has now left Parliament, but she has not left the environmental issues. As an environmental law and policy expert at the IVL Swedish Environmental Institute, she will research and develop the work with sustainable cities. I find it hard to imagine a better recruitment for that mission. I would like to thank you for your efforts as a Member of Parliament, Åsa, and wish you every success in your new assignment.
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-478	I would also like to say a few words about three Members who have resigned from the mission but who are unable to be here today. I would, of course, like to draw attention to their work in Parliament. WiwiWiwi-Anne Johansson has been a Member of Parliament since 2006. She has also been a member of the Environment and Agriculture Committee. WiwiWiwi-Anne has also been a member of the Social Security Committee. With a background as a journalist, she has, of course, pushed questions about the media and culture but also the environment and climate as well as increased equality and improved conditions for single and sick leave. She has been the spokesperson of her party first in environmental policy and then in social security matters. We have here in Parliament seen Wiwi-Wiwi-Anne as a strong person who stands up for what she believes in, but there is also a pragmatic one to move forward in politics. Thank you, WiwiWiwi-Anne, for your time in Parliament! Stig Henriksson has been a Member of Parliament and a member of the Defence Committee since 2014. There he has held the banner of alliance freedom high and has been the spokesperson of his party's defence policy. He has also worked in the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. Stig is often described as both a quiet and outspoken person but also as humorous and sometimes subtle in both discussions and debates. Perhaps it was these qualities that laid the foundation for his many years of experience as councillor in his own majority in Fagersta. Stig has left the Riksdag, but also he does not leave his commitment as he continues with the defence issues in the Defence Committee, among other things. Thank you, Stig, for your time in Parliament! I would also like to say a few words to Daniel Sestrajcic, Member of Parliament after the 2014 elections and Member of the Tax Committee. Not surprisingly, Daniel has been the spokesperson of his party on tax policy issues. Daniel Sestrajcic has pushed to combat tax evasion and tax evasion. Issues such as culture and international justice are also close to Daniel's heart. With his strong commitment – passionate is a word that describes Daniel – he has been politically active in the youth union and at home in Malmö. There he will continue to be active and push for justice and equality both in Sweden and internationally. Thank you, Daniel, for your time in Parliament! Thank you, all four of you, for your efforts in the service of Parliament and democracy!
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-487	Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, of course, I would also like to thank all of you for the wonderful work you have done in Parliament this autumn. I would also like to thank the Vice-Presidents, the group leaders and the members of the Riksdag Board for their very good cooperation and, of course, also the Director of Parliament and the administration for their excellent cooperation during the year. I wish you all a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year!
i-99c4198a5873ce1a-489	Mr President, I would like to In the usual way, I would like to add my voice to all the thanks that the President has expressed here and to express our thanks to Members of this House. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish Mr President and his family a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. I'll see you in a couple of weeks!
