i-c25160306fa365e2-0	Mr President, I would like to The fight for justice, rights and change has always begun in streets, squares and workplaces. Only when the voices for justice and change have become many and high do they penetrate into this Parliament – it has been historic, and so it is now. Up in the gallery here today, and in the country, there are the voices that have been able to penetrate this Parliament. These voices have been so strong that today we are finally going to debate the issue of the condition of unaccompanied minors. I want to thank you – every single one of you – who fights every day. I want to thank Young in Sweden for showing how powerlessness can become power when people stand up for each other. Your courage to face the hatred and split with love and solidarity is something for all adults to learn from. Your desire to build the country with us makes me proud. You take responsibility for each other and for our common future when politics has failed. Now is the time for us in here to take political responsibility, and I hope that today you will receive the answers that you deserve. I would also like to thank Mr We cannot stand it, which has brought together a strong movement of adults who work with unaccompanied minors on a daily basis and who last night handed over almost 60 000 signatures for an amnesty, which is an impressive number. I am grateful and proud also of the enormous work that is being done by you every day in the country to make young unaccompanied ones able to go to school, function and continue to live. At the same time, I am very ashamed of the silence of the majority in here. I would also like to thank the President for opening the doors to these votes and for the debate that we are going to have today. It is indeed high time for this. I hope that today we will take the first steps to allow young people to stay, breathe out and start building the future with us. I was pleased to see that the Green Party says in a debate article that they also want to take such steps. We're here. We're ready. The question for the day is, where are the rest of you? It's up to you to prove it!
i-c25160306fa365e2-9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by thanking the Left Party for the initiative for today's debate. As a newly appointed Minister, this initiative gives me an excellent opportunity to clarify the government's policy. The right to seek asylum is fundamental. Anyone seeking asylum in our country will be given legal redress. Anyone in need of protection can stay in Sweden, but anyone who is refused their application must of course return. There is broad support for regulated immigration in the Swedish Parliament. This is Sweden's position. I want to go back to 2015. That year and that autumn, I think we all remember. Europe and Sweden were then put to the test. In just one week in November, more than 10 000 refugees arrived in Sweden. Sweden took responsibility. 163 000 refugees went to Sweden, 35 000 of whom were unaccompanied children and young people. More people came than ever in 2015. Many took responsibility. The state took responsibility; the municipalities took responsibility; civil society took responsibility. The state, associations, business and individuals took responsibility. On that occasion, I was the chairman of the municipal council of the Scanian municipality of Kristianstad, with 83 000 inhabitants, and I was really put to the test. I had to experience and lead a job in connection with the reception of refugees who became extraordinary. Among employees and surroundings, I met a great deal of commitment and a high level of professionalism. Out in the municipalities, a functioning organisation and structure were quickly built to cope with reception. This applies not least to the reception of all unaccompanied minors, with accommodation and conversations. Young people would enter a school system that would work. Senior teachers were called in, and nonprofit forces made enormous efforts. But I and many people with me remember that week in November, when we ended up in a situation where we stopped – when we in Skåne could see people coming from Denmark and then we could no longer receive them in a dignified way. We also realised that Sweden alone cannot take on this responsibility. It is important that all the municipalities of the country take joint and several responsibility, for which we have a regulatory framework today, but it is equally important that we now get the states of Europe and the Member States of the European Union to assume their joint and several responsibilities in the distribution and reception of all the people who come to Europe. I am very aware of the difficult situation in Afghanistan. I am also aware that, because of the exceptionally high level of reception, we have a situation of prolonged waiting for the individual. The Finnish Immigration Service has a high workload and long processing times. This was the first question that came to me as a new minister. My first conversation was with the Director General of the Finnish Immigration Service, Mikael Ribbenvik. I received a clear promise that all unaccompanied minors who have arrived in 2015 and 2016 will have their application examined before the end of the year. This is important. That is where we need to come – we need to reduce the processing times. My mission is to protect the right of asylum. Afghans who have applied and who apply for asylum in Sweden and who are deemed to need international protection are granted a residence permit in Sweden. It is the need for protection and security in the country that determines whether you can stay. This applies to those who come from Afghanistan, just as it applies to all those who come from other countries. It is the Finnish Immigration Service and ultimately the Migration Courts which, after an individual examination in each individual case, decide on objective grounds whether there is a need for protection. Sweden has one of the world's most legally secure systems, with a responsible authority examining the application and making a decision, which can also be appealed in court. This decision – or this assessment – is a matter that I or the government cannot and must not resolve. Nor, I believe, is it desirable for such a decision to be taken by politics, Parliament or any responsible political authority. We in Sweden have agreed that it should be the profession and not politics that examines all applications. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude with the words of Stefan Löfven, who yesterday, in this room, presented the government declaration and from this speaker's chair expressed that the right of asylum should be safeguarded, that Sweden should have regulated immigration, that the government's work for improved return continues and that the processing times should be shortened.
i-c25160306fa365e2-24	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! This debate is therefore about the situation of unaccompanied minors who have applied for asylum in Sweden. The Moderates advocate a migration policy that helps people in need, which is long-term and sustainable. As everyone knows, 2015 was an exceptional year in our migration policy. Although the number of people who have applied for asylum in Sweden since then has fallen sharply, the long processing times, unfortunately, mean that many people are waiting for a decision on asylum. As many as 13 000 unaccompanied persons are currently enrolled in the reception system of the Finnish Immigration Service. The average processing time for cases relating to this group is now up to one year and eight months, and the appeal is often subject to additional waiting periods. There is nothing positive about any human being, young or old, having to wait this long for a message of asylum. Of course, it creates great frustration in people: What will happen to me? How much longer will it take, and what if I do not have the necessary grounds for asylum? The efficiency of decision-making must be increased. Here one can be inspired, for example, by our eastern neighbour Finland. But of course it should also be said that the challenge is very great in the light of the very many people who have come to Sweden in a short time. Another explanation for the waiting time is that policy has not been able to make decisions on time. On the contrary, several of the most prominent reforms in this area have been decided very late. Decisions on border controls and reinforced migration legislation, medical age assessment, new reimbursement model for municipalities – all of this has been presented at the last moment and when the problems have already grown very large. The conditions for authorities and municipalities to succeed in solving their tasks have not always been the best. They have sometimes even been directly bad. Nevertheless, my picture is that the reception has worked – and works – relatively well in many places in Sweden, not least thanks to important contributions from individuals and civil society. It is, of course, a sign of strength for Sweden as a country. Our task in this House is to be the decision-makers, to make the laws that apply in this area. At the same time, it is easy to be captured by various human fates. I can feel great sympathy for the fact that many people who have come to our country and applied for asylum were not met with what they had hoped for. Of course, you always have a great responsibility to find out which rules apply in the country you are looking for. But for far too long, a picture of Swedish migration policy was spread that was too one-sided, and this, combined with a regulatory framework that on very many points differed from that of other EU countries, created expectations but also problems. A clear example is the lack of medical age assessments. It is quite clear that it has been possible to obtain a residence permit in Sweden as a minor despite the fact that you have actually been an adult. This means that trust in the system has got a thorn. Now it is important that we learn from the mistakes that have been made. Sweden needs a debate on migration policy that highlights the many opportunities that exist for people to move across national borders, but also the difficulties that sometimes exist and the conflicts that the area contains. Laws and rules must be enforced. Looking now at the current situation, we can see that for those who apply for asylum in Sweden today, the right to an individual examination of whether there are grounds for asylum applies. The trial is carried out by the Finnish Immigration Service and you have the right to appeal to a court with the assistance of a legal representative. The trial is based on the security situation in the home country and on circumstances relating to the individual. Those who are deemed to have asylum grounds are granted protection and may stay in Sweden. In Sweden alone last year, 71 000 persons were granted asylum permits, and they who have received a residence permit must be given a good opportunity to enter society and the world of work as soon as possible. If, on the other hand, after a legal process, you have received a final statement that you are deemed to have no reason for asylum, you should return to your home country. That statement applies equally to all and is the basis of our regulated migration policy. I have a great deal of sympathy for the difficult situation that many people who are denied a residence permit in Sweden find themselves in. It applies to people from Afghanistan, but it also applies to people from other countries. In addition, many have had to wait a very long time for decisions. However, this does not mean that I think we should abandon the order we have in Sweden with individual trials for asylum reasons within the framework of a legally secure process. It is the relevant authorities, ultimately the Migration Agency, and the Court of Justice that have to decide whether there are grounds for asylum in each individual case. This has not always been the case. I would like to remind you that this change was decided on in very broad political agreement more than 15 years ago. But to allow policies to stack different different solutions on each other will, by extension, be steps towards a less legally secure and more disorderly asylum process. It is not a road that Sweden should take. On the contrary, Mr President, migration policy needs rules that are long-term for the reason that this area is too important to continue to be defined by great twitchiness here and there. That is exactly what has created many of the problems we are seeing today. Anyone seeking asylum in Sweden, but also municipalities, authorities and civil society, should know what applies. You should be able to trust Sweden.
i-c25160306fa365e2-39	Mr President, I would like to Responsibility and the rule of law are two words that I believe will be recurring in today's debate. We have already heard them mentioned several times. We note that the three major parties in this House, at least the three major parties, take responsibility and understand what legal certainty means. Rules shall be followed, decisions shall be respected and assessments shall be made by experts. Politicians should not interfere in what circumstances should be taken into account for the moment and for various reasons, perhaps because someone has pointed to or experienced a particular problem, while others pass. We politicians are setting the framework and laying down the starting points that should apply. That should also be the case. The debate that has been surrounding the situation of the unaccompanied people has often referred to the current situation, that people have been in the country for a long time and have been attracted here, we are hearing now, with promises that they would be allowed to stay here, according to the regulations we had before, and that we should therefore allow them to stay. But that is not the case. Our asylum legislation is solid. We have certainly had wordings on other protection needs, which are currently being paused for very good reasons, reasons that have only been questioned by, in my opinion, naive, somewhat extreme voices that desire more than we can handle. For most people it has always been a matter of course that individual trials should apply. That should be self-evident even today. We know that even before we got the temporary law, people came here for reasons that were not regulated in our legislation. We cannot have a system where we go past the laws, let those who propagate for other systems attract people here and then say that now they are already here and must be allowed to stay. In practice, that is what is happening. Mr President, I would like to It will be a long debate, and I have several opportunities to come back to this, so I will take this opportunity to talk about responsibilities in another area too. I apologize for leaving the subject for a moment. Yesterday, as we all know, this Parliamentary Session was opened. I think we were all here listening to the government statement. I listened a little extra when I heard mention of Aurora, which is in operation right now. It's our biggest defense exercise in a very long time. I myself will step in to serve a little during this exercise. The basics for me as a lottery within the Swedish Armed Forces and within the military trainings I have attended are the handling of security classified information. It is extremely essential that such information is handled with care. That goes without saying. At the same time, during the summer, there has been a scandal in which, for a time almost every day, it has been shown that government staff, government staff and ministers have ignored this self-evidentness. Security-rated data have been provided to non-security-tested foreign personnel. It has been stressed that this will happen even though several warnings have been given that it violates Swedish legislation. During the summer there was, for a short time in any case, a consensus among all opposition parties that this is of course not acceptable. Anyone who has information that any of this dimension should take place should, of course, act. The motion of censure was promised against three ministers, the three ministers who, in that situation, were either responsible for the relevant authority or had received the information earlier and did not act and did not pass it on. Two ministers have been allowed to leave the government, but the Prime Minister said that it was on their own wishes and that it was they who had chosen it. After that, this has developed. More and more information has come to light, and it has become increasingly clear that the information has been very close to the Prime Minister himself. However, the Prime Minister has not shown any signs of the seriousness of this. He has talked about an accident, but he has not talked about the breakdown within his own government and the Government Office, that is to say that information is not passed on and his own role as leader in it. Mr President, I would like to Therefore, at the end of this debate, I will ask for a motion of censure on the Prime Minister.
i-c25160306fa365e2-51	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking the Left Party for calling for this current debate on the situation of unaccompanied minors. It is high time that we in this House openly discussed how we can resolve the situation of the many young people who came to Sweden as minors in 2015 but who have reached the age of 18 during the unreasonably long waiting for a reply on their asylum applications and are therefore now in danger of being rejected. I also hope that we will address issues relating to how we reduce vulnerability, homelessness and mental ill-health in this group and how we ensure that they can continue their schooling and not be unduly swept away from the environment and school where they live their lives. In recent years, many unaccompanied children and young people have come to Sweden. It is children and young people who in many cases have made their way to Sweden on trips that we would call dangerous and unsafe even for adult men and women. Many of them carry traumas and difficult experiences, both from time on the run and from their homelands. Taking good care of these young people is not only the right thing to do, but also a future investment that will build Sweden stronger. The security situation in Afghanistan is very serious and the situation has deteriorated significantly since the international peacekeeping forces left the country. In several provinces armed conflict is taking place. That makes the situation extremely dangerous. Even in Kabul, the situation has deteriorated. Car bombs, suicide bombers, rocket shootings, and complex attacks bring down thousands of civilian victims. I visited Kabul myself last spring to learn more about the security situation and the situation of those returning. It was worse than I thought. Afghanistan is one of the world's most dangerous countries, and there is little opportunity for you to create some kind of normal life for those who return without networks. The Green Party wants those who came as unaccompanied minors in 2015 to stay in Sweden. We've worked hard to make it a reality. Unfortunately, the solutions that we have implemented in recent years have been eroded when reality has changed rapidly. That is why we want to make changes that will allow this group to stay, as the idea was already in 2015. When the government decided in November 2015 to introduce a temporary more restrictive legislation, the Green Party negotiated a special child exemption which would allow all children and families with children to continue to receive permanent residence permits instead of temporary residence permits if they applied for asylum before 25 November 2015. As we saw it, this exception was particularly important for the very unaccompanied minors who lacked proper reception and who risked not having their temporary residence permits renewed at the age of 18 but were judged to be adults. The Finnish Immigration Service carried out a change of practice in the summer that eroded the children's exception. This means that unaccompanied minors between the ages of 16 and 18 who do not have an arranged reception in their home country should only be allowed to stay temporarily until they have reached the age of 18 and be expelled as adults, instead of being granted a permanent residence permit that we had decided under the legislation of the Riksdag. In order to remedy this situation again, we worked intensively to negotiate a new law that would allow these young people the possibility of a longer residence permit so that they can complete high school in peace and quiet and then have the possibility of a permanent residence permit through work. The so-called High School Act, which we managed to get support for in this House this spring, will have a major impact on some of these young people – but less than we expected and hoped for. Because of the long wait for notice, many people are at risk of turning 18 before they get their first asylum decisions, even though the Migration Agency has promised that everyone will have their decisions before the end of the year. As a result, there is a considerable risk of rejection, and they are not covered by the Upper Secondary Education Act. Thus, in both our attempts to prevent the situation we are now facing, reality has changed faster than we have been able to legislate. This is very unfortunate. The political intention has been clear. This is a group we wanted to protect and provide security for. We did not want to see thousands of young asylum seekers rejected, and we did not want to see them get it this autumn just because they have been waiting for years to get their decisions. These young people, who live here and have lived here for years, are in danger of becoming homeless and undocumented. It is difficult and takes time to reject people to Afghanistan. Few expulsions are carried out in practice, so these young people will remain in Sweden for many years, in great vulnerability and without the right to housing, work or schooling. It's not decent. The Green Party wants these young people, who can become an important part of building a future Sweden, to have a new chance. As we see it, new legislation is likely to be required, and it is urgent. I know that there is a great deal of commitment and will in several parties in this House. I therefore call on all parties to clarify how they stand in this debate, and I hope for constructiveness and the focus of the solution.
i-c25160306fa365e2-68	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the situation of unaccompanied minors in Sweden. So far this year, seven people in this group have taken their own lives. At least a hundred more young people have tried to do so. They have taken pills, tried to hang themselves, jumped from bridges and windows, poured combustible liquid over themselves and stepped out in front of trains and cars. They've cut themselves in the face, in the groin, in the arms. I understand that this list may sound macabre, but from my point of view it is not possible to start anywhere else when we talk about this group. Each of these young people has felt so desperate that they have seen no other way out. Many more feel intense anxiety and anxiety about the future. They have sleeping problems and difficulty concentrating, and they have lost hope. We in the Center Party really want to try to resolve this situation. We have presented a number of proposals in recent years. Some we've already got through, others not. At the same time, I know that all of you sitting in here--I mean really everyone--have the ability to feel empathy, even those of you who do not fully agree with the kind of solutions that I want to see. I know that, like me, you are deeply affected by the plight of these people. The fact that we have different positions on what needs to be done is not about this. It's not about one being evil and the other being good. I know that you are also doing your thinking on the basis of what you think is the best way forward. Nor can we politicians be guided solely by empathy and compassion. We must be able to listen to the individual stories and let them touch us, but at the same time weigh this against all the others. It is infinitely difficult, if not impossible, to build social systems that will never ever hit anyone in a negative way. Sometimes our political balances mean that we make a decision even though it will be difficult for some, because it is nevertheless the best possible option for the vast majority. This isn't easy-- it's never easy-- and we know it in here. I have great respect for the fact that we sometimes strike this balance from different points of view and that we come to different conclusions. For the Center Party, the fate of individuals weighs heavily, but that is not the only thing we care about. What happened in autumn 2015, when many people applied for asylum in Sweden at the same time, was completely untenable. We still live with many of the consequences. As the world looks today, the Center Party believes that Sweden should have regulated immigration and that we should have a strong right to asylum. This means that there must be systems that determine who has the right to be here and who does not. We want to continue to have a depoliticised asylum process where asylum reasons are assessed by the Finnish Immigration Service and courts. This system should of course be as legally secure as possible, but the truth is that there will always be shortcomings and grey areas. People will fall between the chairs. There are many steps in the process that have to go wrong, and there are many things that can go wrong. In the end, it's all about some people deciding whether it's possible to trust another person's story, often about something that happened a long time ago, and where it might be about the person being forced to return. Moreover, in a pressured situation, there is an increased risk of something going wrong. Long processing times, poor access to the right information, many newly recruited administrators, lack of interpreters who speak the right language, good men who lack experience, legal counsel without up-to-date knowledge, stressed enrollment processes and a general distrust that spreads from all sides. In such a situation, there need to be valves in the system. We are now in a position where many of those who came on their own in 2015 get their decisions after an extremely long wait. Of those who are still under 18, the absolute majority are allowed to stay, at least temporarily, but of those who have turned 18 or who have been registered at age, a clear minority is allowed to stay, especially among the Afghans. Others – those who are not allowed to stay – will leave Sweden. Soon we will have many thousands of young men who have lost the right to housing and assistance but who are still here in the country, some because they are hiding and doing everything they can not to be expelled, others because the capacity to expel so many so quickly is lacking. So far this year, the border police have managed to expel approximately 50 people to Afghanistan. At the same time, the Afghan Government is flagrant that it will try in various ways to delay expulsions because it feels that it lacks the capacity to receive these people. If it continues at this rate, it will take many years to expel everyone. Even if we were to deploy all available resources, there are many who will never allow themselves to be expelled and who will remain, because that is what it looks like around the world. In the meantime, there is a great risk that drug abuse will increase in this group, that gang crime will have a strong breeding ground and that poverty will be great. This will lead to enormous costs for society, both in human suffering, not least for victims, and in clean costs for everything from health care to justice. It also risks reducing trust – perhaps the greatest cost of all. The people in this country who have built networks and who have supported in various ways are already on the verge of what they can do.
i-c25160306fa365e2-82	Mr President, I would like to Around the country, in squares and classrooms, young people have been on a sit - down strike for more than a month. Their goal is to stop the expulsions to Afghanistan – one of the world's most dangerous countries. Like myself, Minister of Migration Heléne Fritzon has been present at the Citizens' Square and met the strikers, but we obviously see very differently the role of politics in society. Since joining Heléne Fritzon as Minister of Migration, she has been hiding behind the Migration Agency and has said that the authority takes independent decisions that she as Minister cannot influence. We heard this again today. But I think we can do something political. It is the political role to make the laws on which the Migration Agency is based. The same Parliament that closed borders and restricted the right of asylum just over two years ago can now act to restore it, and what is required is will. It is high time the Minister for Migration stopped hiding and began to take responsibility for the situation created by the government's own policy. We are hearing here today that the Green Party – the second government party – is leading the way in this matter for the government. The unaccompanied persons who are now protesting sought asylum in a Sweden where laws were different from those in force when their asylum grounds were examined. Laws have been amended retroactively, and important grounds of protection have been removed. Waiting times are so long that many have turned 18 while waiting for news, while others have had their age written up on honestly hair-traveling legal uncertainty grounds. I will talk more about legal uncertainty in the next speech. At the same time, we all know that the fighters in Afghanistan do not carry out a medical age assessment before harvesting their victims. We know that there is no state that can protect women, Hazzars, LGBTQ people or other vulnerable people. Afghanistan is estimated to be the second most dangerous country in the world after Syria, according to the annual ranking from the Institute for Economics and Peace. The security situation is constantly deteriorating, and there is no indication that developments will reverse. In 2016, 11 500 civilians died or were injured during the fighting, according to the UN. The situation is described as moving and unpredictable. It cannot be said that an area that is considered to be safe today will also be so tomorrow. Several parties here in the Riksdag have raised demands to suspend the expulsions to Afghanistan. Of course, one might think that in its legal position, the Migration Agency should come to the conclusion that expulsions to Afghanistan should be stopped, but that was not the case. As politicians, we are responsible for seeing reality as it is and finding solutions to the challenges that are emerging around us. If we see that a large group of people suffer very badly from the laws passed in here, it is our duty to change them. The Left Party has a series of proposals that Minister for Migration Heléne Fritzon and the House can deal with here and now. We can introduce an amnesty for unaccompanied minors who have been here in Sweden for more than a year or some other time limit. We can tear down the readmission agreement with Afghanistan. The country's Minister for Refugees has appealed to Sweden not to expel people there because they are unable to receive them. We can withdraw the temporary law that divides families, creates insecurity and makes it difficult for unaccompanied children to obtain asylum in Sweden. There are further ways. The Center Party has put forward proposals that those who are arbitrarily enrolled in their age or age 18 should be re-examined. Save the Children has proposed to exempt Afghanistan from the IDP principle on the grounds of the difficult and unpredictable security situation. We in the Left Party are open to any suggestions that may allow young people to stay, breathe out and help build the country. Mr President, I would like to The point is, there's something you can do if you want. The government and Minister for Migration Heléne Fritzon have a lot of power in their hands. We in this Parliament have a lot of power in our hands. The question is what it is worth if it is not used to make life better for young people who are now waiting in uncertainty and fear. Today, all of Parliament's parties are faced with the question: What do you do with your power when you see young people getting hurt? How do you respond to the young people who are so afraid of expulsion that they no longer want to live? What do you do with your power when those who meet young people every day – sociologists, teachers, good men, foster home families – are barely able to cope with their important work because they are forced to face the consequences of legal uncertainty and unreasonable decisions. How do you respond to the adults who try to comfort the terrified young at night, those who get to drive them to the emergency room when they have cut themselves into their anxiety, those who are forced to tell the other young people at the accommodation that one of their friends has seen no other way out than to take their own life? What do you do when both the Migration Agency's own quality monitoring and the report from We cannot bear to show such serious legal uncertainty? For me and the Left Party, the answer is clear: it takes political action for young people to stay, and it is now required. What are you doing?
i-c25160306fa365e2-96	Mr President, I would like to In recent years, many unaccompanied young people have come to Sweden. In 2015, more than 35 000 came, mainly from Afghanistan and its neighbours. In the past, most unaccompanied persons have been allowed to stay in Sweden. Now the situation has changed, it is different now and more are being rejected. The regulatory framework has become tighter. Sweden, like several other EU countries, has also concluded agreements with Afghanistan that allow for expulsions. In addition, medical age assessments show that many unaccompanied minors are older than they have indicated to Swedish authorities. Mr President, I would like to Sweden will conduct a humane refugee policy. At the same time, we know that not all people can stay in Sweden. These are heavy and difficult decisions that affect many people, not only the individual, but also people around them. We must protect the right of asylum. This means that we will give a residence permit and a future in Sweden to those who have protection reasons. We will enable a life in Sweden for those who have protection reasons. People who do not have protection reasons will have to leave our country. Many times there are very strong links between people seeking asylum, not least the unaccompanied ones, and people who are around them in their vicinity, people who are very committed, who help very much and who care very much. Those who work with unaccompanied young people need to be strengthened in their role. It's about being a professional support for the kid here and now, no matter where the kid will have his future. The Liberals believe that Sweden should conduct a humane and legally secure asylum policy. This also means that people who have been notified of rejection will have to leave Sweden. But Sweden also has a responsibility to ensure that the time a person is in Sweden, until this person is to leave Sweden, should be meaningful and characterized by dignity. Many people are now witnessing – we see clear examples of this – how the mental health of many asylum seekers, not least unaccompanied minors, is very poor. In this respect, social support needs to be improved in various ways. We Liberals believe that at the same time there should be greater opportunities for shorter and more vocational education and training that is also available in other countries for people who will not be able to stay in Sweden. If you have been here for several years and then have to leave Sweden, you should be able to bring something that can be viable in your home country or where you will be in the future. I think that is an important responsibility that we have in Sweden. We have pursued a policy that has meant that many people come here. Many people are not allowed to stay, but we have to fill the time that people are here so that it becomes meaningful and so that we avoid the very big problems of mental illness and other things that follow. Mr President, I would like to The processing times for asylum notifications are too long. This waiting is destructive, and it is of course particularly difficult for many young people. The government, with its unclear and ambivalent policy, has contributed to this long wait. The Prime Minister stood here yesterday in the Chamber preaching shorter processing times. But we know that these are just empty words. The government has pushed through inadequate legislation. The Finnish Immigration Service also notes that the government's legislative changes have led to an increased mess in case management. The government does not contribute to shortening the processing times. Instead, decisions are made that increase waiting times and create confusion as to what applies. This also greatly affects unaccompanied young people. As an example, the government has enforced legislation that is legally insecure, which provides for a residence permit for upper secondary school studies. A number of referrals criticised this, particularly because it forces principals and teachers to become part of the asylum process. The government has introduced a number of changes that impair the asylum process and integration in Sweden. Too short a residence permit also creates more bureaucracy. In addition, the government of families with children from Syria makes it difficult to reunite in Sweden. Then you try to patch and fix this mess, so that it gets even messier. A clear example of this was given with the Green Party's article today, which wants another piece of legislation to correct problems in another legislation, which in turn would correct problems in a previous legislation, which in turn created an increased mess from the outset. This mess and legal uncertainty in the asylum process, which the Social Democrats and the Green Party have created in Swedish migration policy, will take a very long time to remedy. And today's debate is also proof of how bad this is.
i-c25160306fa365e2-106	Mr President, I would like to There is no doubt that the situation in Afghanistan is serious. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the Migration Agency closely monitors the development of the security situation in the country. The Christian Democrats' migration policy starting point is to protect the right of asylum and that Sweden has a moral responsibility to help fellow people in need. We from the Christian Democrats believe that any assessment should be in accordance with the UN Refugee Convention and tested individually. It is through our legal system that decisions should be made. The Christian Democrats have always stood up for a humane and generous refugee policy that offers refuge for people fleeing oppression. At the same time, we advocate an orderly and responsible integration and migration policy. Unfortunately, anyone who has no reason for asylum or other need for protection must return. The Finnish Immigration Service complies with Swedish law as decided by the Riksdag, and the majority of unaccompanied children from Afghanistan have protection needs. It is also reflected in the fact that 83% of the unaccompanied children from Afghanistan have been granted a residence permit. Mr President, I would like to The migration crisis became a difficult challenge for the EU and Sweden in 2015. The great influx of refugees was exhausting for our society. From Sweden receiving 388 unaccompanied minors in 2004, in 2014 7 049 received 35 369 in 2015 it was of course a huge challenge for our society. There was simply no longer the resources of officials, interpreters, social secretaries, teachers, housing and so on. Mr President, I would like to At the same time, solidarity, humanity and the right of asylum must be safeguarded. If the other EU countries had received as many asylum seekers per capita as our country did in 2015, the Union could have jointly welcomed 8 million asylum seekers in one year. No children or minors shall be deported to Afghanistan, or for that matter to any other country, unless there is an orderly reception there. The situation in the home Member State must always be taken into account, and individual examination must always be carried out. The Finnish Immigration Service's latest situation analysis of Afghanistan is based on data from its own evaluations but also on the analyses of various UN agencies. The situation analysis shows that the security situation in the country has deteriorated but that there are significant regional differences. As I understand it, two out of 34 regions are in warlike conditions, but this is not the case throughout the country. The Finnish Immigration Service has the task of complying with various conventions and has the task of making individual assessments in a legally secure manner. Mr President, I would like to I was in Parliament in 2001 when we in the Social Security Committee in November received an announcement for a new court order and legal process for asylum seekers. The aim was to gain more transparency in the decisions by placing the proceedings in court. There would also be the possibility of an appeal and an oral hearing. It became a two-party system that would improve the decision-making process. Country information would also be more transparent. It was on which country information the Migration Board would make its decisions. The idea was also that asylum cases would be dealt with more quickly. For unaccompanied minors, the objective was to take a decision within three months. We from the Christian Democrats and several refugee-friendly parties had fought for this for quite a long time. We were very pleased to bring about this legal order. An evaluation from 2009 showed that in principle all parties were in favour of the new regime. It was also all parties and representatives of asylum seekers. But with the many cases that existed in 2015, it was of course extremely difficult to reach the set targets for quick decisions. In addition, decisions should be legally secure, so this with speed versus legal certainty is also an important balance. Mr President, I would like to I don't think we should change the system for making decisions. I don't think it should be on us politicians. This is the order of humane refugee policy that we have been pushing through for a long time. It will take a lot for us to change the order that we now have. With this, I hope that these cases will be dealt with more quickly. I think we can all agree on that.
i-c25160306fa365e2-120	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for your valuable contribution to the debate. I would like to begin by addressing the Left Party. I'm really not hiding. I've been a councillor for 25 years, and I don't think I've been judging myself that I'm hiding as a politician. I may be a new minister, but I have a political background where I know what hiding means. On the other hand, I respect Parliament's decisions, and that is not hiding. I fully respect the risk day's decision on the asylum procedure in Sweden. I also respect the fact that the Left Party has a completely different view. After all, the Left Party wants free immigration and amnesty, and it is, of course, free to speak and think. In this debate, I represent the whole government. The government's view is that there is no need today for further legislation in this area. In this context, I would like to reply to the Moderates, that I do not believe that any government could foresee what happened in 2015. Each government, no matter what it had been in 2015, would have had to take the necessary legislative decisions. I think it is good that the government made an agreement with the bourgeois parties. It has carried forward on many issues. It was important and crucial to have a temporary law. The provisions on medical age assessments were part of this. They were important for the process to work. However, I do not see that today we could facilitate the asylum process by introducing another law. If you want to make a change, I want to make it clear that it is legislation that applies, and then it is Parliament that has to make decisions. It took seven months for the government to produce the basis for the temporary law. I have now received a promise from the Director General that all matters relating to unaccompanied minors who came here in 2015 and 2016 will be examined before the end of the year. It's a little less than four months away. I can see that these trials can also be dealt with in a good way. There are many figures in the debate. Let me say, however, that in all the matters dealt with by the Migration Board this year concerning unaccompanied minors, the outcome is positive. Decisions on residence permits have been taken in 83% of cases involving unaccompanied minors from Afghanistan. For all countries, the figure is 82%. My focus is clear. It is about continuing with the work to reduce the processing times. The Finnish Immigration Service has an enormous workload. At the reception there are 88 000 people waiting for decisions today. Although some 28 000 asylum seekers are down this year, there is still work going on to examine applications from 88 000 people. It is important to know in order to create an understanding that there is a high workload at the Migration Agency.
i-c25160306fa365e2-128	Mr President, I would like to We have now heard representatives from the various parties. Most of us realize that many people who have applied for asylum in Sweden find themselves in a difficult situation with too long waiting periods. These are difficult questions that do not always have good answers. Of course, this is particularly problematic for minors. For them, we as a nation have a particularly great responsibility, and we also take a particularly great responsibility through, for example, specific forms of housing. We also place very high demands on an orderly reception at the time of return. Then there are also differences in the debate. One of these differences is whether or not the policy should decide on a particular amnesty. This is the Left Party's proposal, and the Left Party has also initiated this debate – thank you very much. Perhaps that is also what one government party advocates. I would like to repeat what I started by saying. We will protect the order that we have in Sweden with individual assessments where it is the competence of authorities and courts that determines, not politics' whimsicalness. We changed systems in broad political agreement, and it is important that we are long-term in this. Ultimately, this is a question of legal certainty. Authorities and courts are far better placed to determine the security situation in a far away country than we MPs are. We should not have a system where it is different from the asylum reasons that are crucial. It would not be long-term and not humane. Instead, we should stick to the order that we have. There are, of course, things that can and must be improved, not least the long duration of proceedings. They do not bring anything positive with them. On the contrary, priority must be given to shortening them. Whether you are granted asylum or if you are going to return to your home country, you must soon be informed of the future. As I also said at the outset, we must be long-term. This area is too important to be characterised by twitchiness and uncertainty. I do not believe that it is possible for Sweden, as a small individual country, to return to the migration policy that applied before 2015. Without us, we need a regulatory framework that continues to be in line with what applies in the outside world, not least in our Nordic neighbours. Overall, I believe that we as a nation also have much to gain with more cooperation with our Nordic neighbours. It would be welcome if the government were to present a comprehensive statement on how it views the future of these issues after the expiry of the temporary law. Shadow society was mentioned here earlier. This is something that makes me and many others very concerned. We run the risk of facing a situation of perhaps 60 000, 70 000 or even more people living in Sweden, even though they have been told that they do not have asylum grounds but will return. The policy must be clear here. If you have asylum reasons, you should get a residence permit and quickly enter studies or work. If you miss it, you should return home. The Moderates have put forward a number of proposals in this regard. I do not feel that the government takes the return work seriously enough. Unfortunately, the figures speak for themselves. Among other things, we have proposed a stricter limitation period. There is also a generous return allowance that can be used to build a good life in your home country. You are also welcome back as, for example, labour immigrants if you find work. However, the principle must be clear. There should be a difference between 'yes' and 'no' in the asylum process, not only because shadow societies where people are suffering is bad, but also because our resources must go to the people who are most in need of them.
i-c25160306fa365e2-137	Mr President, I would like to I would not be myself if I did not comment briefly at least on the small shift between the Government and Moderates Forssell as to what could be predicted and what could not be predicted. We heard from the Government that probably no government could have foreseen what would happen in autumn 2015. We heard from Johan Forssell that action was taken far too late. I'm inclined to agree with Johan Forssell. I am also convinced that the moderate-led government saw very well what was about to happen but still did not act. I am pleased that the Moderates now seem to be taking this seriously again and again talking about predicting what is going to happen and that one can have a policy that runs in one direction or another. From Christina Höj Larsen of the Left Party, who is the initiator of this debate, we heard a speech that could in many ways be interpreted as meaning that the objective of our asylum policy should in principle be that everyone should be allowed to stay. Coming here is the way to get help. My starting point and that of the Swedish Democrats is that the aim of a refugee and asylum policy is to help and to help as many as possible as effectively as possible. I said in my last speech that the three major parties are at least standing up for rules and decisions to be followed and respected, and now we have seen some more parties on the right hand side who are doing so. But we have also heard from the other parties that the reason for the temporary law and restrictions is above all that Sweden is not able to handle the situation. That is certainly true. The legislation and the system we have had in the past has put an unreasonable burden on Sweden, and we have had a reception that is not worthy of anyone. It was also this that was my starting point when, very many years ago, I first began to look critically at the immigration policy that Sweden is pursuing. But the more I have immersed myself in the matter and looked at it, I have come to the conclusion that the policy we are pursuing is not worthy of anyone who wants to help in full earnest and wants to reach out to the most needy. It creates a system in which those who get help are those who turn to smugglers, criminals, and who get here in dangerous ways and risk their lives and leave their family in the hope of perhaps reaching a place where they may be given help. The Swedish democrats already spoke before the crisis in 2015, which everyone is now talking about, that the asylum system that we have for refugee aid must not only us but the whole of the Western world actually fundamentally review. It is not built for a time when new flows of refugees are being created. We must ensure and ensure that we get a system where people are protected, a sanctuary, as early as possible. And then we need to look at who needs resettlement, who needs a permanent new home and how we can equip the others for their return and rebuild their country once that opportunity is hopefully given one day. I am pleased that the Liberals are also talking today about equipping people to build and operate in the country to which they will one day return. In this, I hope that we will eventually land through this discussion. That is the way we must strive– not to get as many as possible to take dangerous roads here and stay here, but how to help as many as possible.
i-c25160306fa365e2-145	Mr President, I would like to It has been very interesting to follow what has been said so far during this debate. Many have pointed out that it is important to stick to the order that we have and to ensure that we comply with the decisions made by the Riksdag. This is important and interesting. We have an administrative and procedural order for how to handle migration matters, of which the Riksdag has decided and which is no longer so new. As far as I can see, it is not something that is being called into question here today, but we are all satisfied with it. We want legal certainty, individual trials, and we want the decisions taken to have been preceded by a proper process in which people's reasons have been judged. What we are seeing now, however, is that people are hit very hard by the length of processing times. The decisions that we have actually taken in this House have been overturned because of both long processing times and a new practice in the authority that runs counter to what we have jointly decided. The clearest example of what I am addressing is the fact that, as early as 2015, when we adopted the temporary law, we said that children and families with children would be excluded if they came before 2015. However, it has not been implemented for unaccompanied minors since a new decision was taken by the Migration Board, which contradicted this. The long processing times also mean that those who came here as minors and to a large extent would have been allowed to stay if their applications had been granted when they were minors now run the risk of being rejected. One might ask what we should do then and what our responsibility in this House is when we are faced with a situation where the people who would have to stay with the legislation that we have decided on do not get it even though it was the idea from the beginning. And it happens because of Sweden's bureaucracy and because of our inability to handle matters quickly and give people a legally secure and effective trial as it was intended. I believe that our responsibility is to act. Not only should we argue in favour of maintaining the status quo, but we should do something to ensure that what we wanted from the outset with the legislation also comes about. When we see that legislation has unreasonable consequences or affects individuals hard, we need to analyse it and see if there is anything we can do to change the situation. This is particularly true when we know that it is about young people who have lived here for a long time and when we know that it is about people who are at risk of mental illness or actually thinking about suicides and the like. We have already seen this on a number of occasions. Then we need to think about what we can do. There are, of course, things that we can do that at the same time respect the new order of procedure and procedure and that ensure that we continue to have an individual examination. But we need to find solutions that will give the group that came as an unaccompanied entity in 2015 an opportunity to stay. Several parties have given some answers. I know that there are committed people in all parties, not least the Center Party and the Left Party. However, it is still a little unclear how other parties feel about trying to find solutions that ensure that people are not affected in the way we now see. I hope to have further clarifications during the debate.
i-c25160306fa365e2-154	Mr President, I would like to We in the Center Party have put forward several proposals that would improve the situation of the unaccompanied, but also for society as a whole. We have tried in our proposals to find a good balance between humanity and some form of order. We have been clear from the past that we want to reintroduce particularly distressing circumstances as a basis for protection. We voted against the temporary law, which limited this possibility. We also believe that children and young people under the age of 18 should have permanent residence permits. At the same time, such a division, which provides better conditions for minors, increases incentives to lie about their age. We are fully aware of this and therefore believe that age assessments are necessary, including the medical part. No, it is not entirely legal, but it is still necessary from our point of view. Minors should have more support than adults, but greater support also means higher costs. We must ensure, as far as possible, that those resources go where they are intended. Of course, there are individuals who do not really know exactly how old they are or who have had the wrong age stated without their own purpose. Personally, I can understand to some extent if you take a chance. At the same time, however, it is important that we are clear that those who deliberately lie about their age should not benefit from it. Nor, of course, should it be possible for those who have committed crimes to escape more easily by lying about their age or identity, and it is good that tightening up has been done here. Even by age assessment, however, we have thousands of people who were minors when they arrived and when they applied for protection here, but who have turned 18 during the long trial period. Most often this leads to a rejection of their application. They are not included in the 83% migration minister's figures that have been approved. In order to reduce insecurity and increase predictability, we in the Center Party believe that it is the age one had when submitting the application that should apply when making decisions. Letting minors live here with their concerns for several years and then, just when they are 18 years old, expel them to a country where they have absolutely no network and where many have not been, is simply not right. The Center Party also believes that those who can support themselves and who comply with laws and regulations should have the opportunity to stay in Sweden. We have a shortage of labour, even in many professions that require shorter or no training at all. Many of the young people who came in 2015 have already learned Swedish, and several have offers for jobs or work. But it is all complicated by difficult rules, and in the end work permits are granted only to those who have a valid ID document. For Afghans, it means a passport, something many lack. Here the government has promised improvements, but we have not yet seen them, and it is urgent now. We also want to increase the possibility of staying through scholarships and the like, and we believe that the relocations that take place when people turn 18 during the asylum process need to stop. Would everyone be allowed to stay if only the proposals of the Center Party were implemented? No, but it would mean more opportunities for more people. Would the proposals mean that many more people would go to Sweden? No – partly because the world and the road to Sweden look completely different today than in 2015, partly because the proposals would primarily be directed towards a defined group, which consists of a number of individuals who have fallen between the chairs that we have been moving around here since they came here.
i-c25160306fa365e2-159	Mr President, I would like to It is strange to hear Heléne Fritzon say that it is to respect Parliament's decision not to do anything. Then you can really wonder what we're doing all day. It is very common for us to change the legislation when we see that it does not work. These could be labour market policy, tax policy and a number of other areas. It is our responsibility to make laws. Sometimes we see that things don't turn out the way we want them to. In this case, when so many people get hurt, I think it's obvious that things didn't turn out the way we want them to. That it would be wrong and disrespectful to the Riksdag is completely incomprehensible. Then we could never make any new laws. The Left Party wants us to have laws that work well and legally, so that you don't need amnesties. It is not at all a question of questioning regulated immigration. Rather, it is that we see reality as it is for so many of you who are sitting up in the gallery today. We hear a lot of people here talking almost blue in the face about the rule of law. I would strongly recommend that everyone in this House read a report that came two days ago. It is we who cannot stand to have gathered and compiled examples of the enormous legal uncertainty that has struck this particular group. I would like to give a telling example. It's about age assessment. A sibling couple arrives in Sweden in 2015. They state exact birthdays at the asylum application. One was born in 1998, the other in 2000. They leave school documents, medical certificates, photos of themselves growing up, and more. After the Finnish Immigration Service's investigation, they were born in 1997 and 1998 respectively and have an age difference of seven months. If so, it's a miracle. They're both denied. This report is full of it. If we all agree that we should have a system of legal certainty and we see that it is not, it is our responsibility to do something about it. It is to respect the population, everyone who sits here and the Swedish Parliament. Then we come to the question of the 85%. It is also a very interesting question that we can look at. What does this mean about 85 percent of the children staying? It just means that children are not expelled until they are counted as adults. The 85% figure, which the Minister for Migration very often points out, does not include those who have turned 18 while they have waited and waited and waited. Children who are written up at the age of any administrator who only looks at them or has hardly seen them are also not counted in that 85%. When we look at the real figures, it's 39%. There's a huge difference. It is because of our responsibility to all those who are in the migration process, because of our responsibility for every single person, that we must now do something. I think the answer is an amnesty. In fact, a Social Democratic government has done so before. That wouldn't be weird at all. There are quite a few of us who want to help. Then there are those who can pretend that the world is different and that 20 000 people will just disappear. It won't be like that. Our responsibility is to take hold of reality and see it as it is. I want us to start taking steps for that today.
i-c25160306fa365e2-165	Mr President, I would like to I'm listening to the immigration minister. Of course, not much shadow should fall over Heléne Fritzon, because she is new in this role. Of course, it is true that no one could foresee what happened in autumn 2015 in the sense of the very large scale. The European Union's legal acts were put out of practice and we had the great consequences we had. Of course, no one could foresee this. But the truth is that the long processing times that we have in Sweden are not only a consequence of the fact that a lot of people came in 2015. They are also a consequence of decisions that the Riksdag has taken and that the Government has pushed through. These decisions have created a huge mess in the reception system and asylum process in Sweden. I would like to point out that it is not the Liberals who have contributed to the fact that Sweden has a temporary residence permit of 13 months. That is not what the agreement on integration came into being either. It was the Social Democrats and the Green Party that pushed through that in Sweden there should be residence permits that are only half as long as the establishment for integration. This has created a more chaotic situation. The Minister for Migration says: This year, only 28 000 people will be seeking asylum; now, therefore, the processing times will be shortened. Yes, for them! At the same time, however, all the very short temporary residence permits are to be renewed. This means that there is a whole new bureaucracy and a mess at the Migration Agency, which also has a number of other important tasks to deal with throughout the reception system, including in terms of labour migration and a lot of other things. That's where the system corks again, too. Mr President, I would like to The very short temporary residence permits that the government pushed through thus lead to increased bureaucracy. They lead to longer processing times and less integration. Waiting times will be longer while we know that many will not be allowed to stay in Sweden. This leads to the question: how do we, as a country, deal with our responsibilities? How do we deal with that time, which may be a number of years, for the people waiting here? Liberals believe that it should be possible to find opportunities for shorter education, vocational training – for example with a lot of English, aimed at the healthcare sector and other – which can provide some kind of certificate that can be available in other countries. If you will have to leave Sweden, you will get something with you from here. But the government doesn't say it wants to. Instead, the government enforces legislation that will force everyone into high school, which is not a vocational school form in that way. In practice, it is about the introduction of upper secondary schools. The government thus makes it impossible for people to get a quick road and the opportunity to build a future outside Sweden. First of all, you create a big mess in the system. Secondly, despite the fact that there are other options, people's time is less wisely spent here. Thirdly, when you realise these problems, you want new legislation to correct those systems. And when that legislation does not work, you come here and want additional legislation to correct it. Mr President, I would like to It is not surprising that it gets very messy for those who will try to keep up with the turns when it comes to how Sweden will get a functioning migration policy. I believe that this will ultimately lead us, after the next elections, to hopefully get another majority in this House who will be able to sort this out so that we can get some order in Swedish asylum policy.
i-c25160306fa365e2-176	Mr President, I would like to The humanitarian crisis in the world means that the reception of asylum seekers in Sweden is and has been under very severe pressure. Many municipalities have judged that they have not been able to live up to what is necessary to guarantee the rights of those arriving. Especially serious is the situation of the children who have come here. The Christian Democrats have previously exercised the idea of setting up a National Crisis Social Emergency Response Centre with special responsibility for unaccompanied children and young people and that it should be set up under the State Department Board. Crisis social emergency services should be available as a resource for municipalities that need relief in their work with unaccompanied minors. The National Crisis Social Services should also have the power to set up reception homes, recruit family homes, good men and specially appointed guardians, and be able to take care of family homes and act as support for municipalities. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats have supported most of the migration agreement of October 2015. It's important. Unfortunately, however, with the temporary law, the government has removed the possibility of granting a residence permit on the grounds of particularly distressing circumstances for adults and particularly distressing circumstances for children. This means that the basis for residence permits no longer exists for some of the most vulnerable people who are now here. We have experienced and think it is good that we have been given the law that allows students at upper secondary level to get longer residence permits and then to be able to look for work. It is a good way for unaccompanied people to stay in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Yesterday I accepted the organization We cannot bear to have done this petition. I have enormous respect for the whole of civil society, for teachers, social secretaries and others who have been strongly committed to the unaccompanied. I believe that this commitment is important, both as support for asylum seekers and as a major support for integration. I think everyone agrees that waiting times must be shortened, especially for children and young people. We can't have it the way it is now. You have time to integrate, become a part of society, get to know classmates and so on. We all understand that it is extremely difficult to tear up from the situation where people have started to establish themselves in Sweden. At the same time, we must have a legal certainty process, so that decisions are not taken so quickly that they do not turn out well. It is simply an important balance. I believe, however, that what the Left Party representative is doing when she is standing here examining the decisions of the Migration Courts and the Migration Board is a dangerous way forward. That's what we weren't supposed to do. With regard to what lies behind the various decisions, it is difficult to respond here in the debate to an exact question that is raised. There are also some questions about the Green Party's input here. Is it a joint input from the government that we're going to take on board? The Green Party is part of the government base. It is therefore important to know whether it is an input by the government to somehow invite the Alliance to agreements.
i-c25160306fa365e2-184	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by addressing the Left Party and Christina Höja Larsen, who obviously want to misinterpret my answer. I want to be very clear and repeat that the government obviously follows decisions made by the Riksdag. That's it. I have also said that the government does not consider the answer to be new supplementary legislation. The reasons why this would not be a successful path have been set out here in the speaker's chair. I have the greatest confidence in the order that Parliament has decided on. It is an authority, in this case the Migration Agency, that has to test both the need for protection and the security situation in the country. I have also said that I am very concerned that we have long processing times. Of course, just as the Liberals and Fredrik Malm present, it is a major concern that the processing times are extensive. I have tried to illustrate that although the number coming to us looks to be lower this year, around 28 000, we have 88 000 people in the reception, 74 000 of whom are waiting for decisions. It is a huge burden on the Migration Agency. The challenges are multiple. They also consist of other legislative areas governing conditions, such as housing, school and education. There are a large number of challenges in the reception. I would like to conclude by saying that I have great respect for all those who, in different ways, are committed to asylum seekers and now to Afghan young people. But I also expect the same respect for the order that we have decided on, namely that the authorities are doing everything they can to deal with the situation that has arisen.
i-c25160306fa365e2-190	Mr President, I would like to Migration policy is difficult – believe nothing else. There are no simple answers that solve all problems and make everyone happy, even if it sometimes sounds like that. The introduction of a special amnesty for those who have been waiting for 12 months may sound like a proposal that solves all the problems. But what happens to the person who has waited 11 months and 15 days? Undeniably, this would create a great deal of new difficult bordering problems in migration policy. It is important to stress, however, that the person, he or she, who actually has asylum reasons, receives a residence permit in Sweden – whether you are under 18 years of age, if you are 18 years of age or if you are over 18 years of age. Last year alone, 71 000 people were granted a residence permit through asylum. The question of age is, in practice, about the possibility of expelling persons who are deemed to have no grounds for asylum. You can think a lot about what's legal and what's not. I can say one thing that I would like to say is not legally certain: to stand and decide on individual asylum matters in the Parliament's pulpit. We've left that order. We did so in broad political agreement, because this order was not good. The matter shall be decided by the authorities and courts which shall take independent decisions after careful examination of the security situation in the different countries. On the other hand, processing times are a problem. As I began by saying, this must be given the highest priority. Whether you have asylum reasons or if you miss them, especially if you are a minor, you need to know as soon as possible what the future holds. I assume and hope that the government will give this issue the highest priority in the future. I would like to thank my fellow debaters, and I would like to thank you – all you hearers who have come here today and listened to the debate.
i-c25160306fa365e2-195	Mr President, I would like to When are you a child, and how long are you a child? How long do we enjoy the extra measures we have to protect children who, as children, do not have the same opportunities to take responsibility for their own lives? In my world, it's pretty simple. It is about the 18th anniversary that we have set as a limit to when you treat individuals as children and when you realize that they as adults should be able to take responsibility for themselves. It is also where, just as Johan Forssell was just at, we have the dividing line when it comes to expulsions. When it comes to children, it should be arranged, with a reception that is prepared and works. That is also the case today. There have been reports of individual cases where a person feels very bad, which of course is extremely tragic. But there are also countless examples of how the expulsions actually work and where there are families or relatives who receive. That is the order we have today. In my world, perhaps we should look more at the choice of resolving a situation where people who have no asylum reasons and are currently children are not granted a longer residence permit than is reasonable. What is relevant in the discussion is what we do to ensure that help is given to those who need it, to ensure that we do not contribute to the exploitation of people by criminals and to ensure that we do not contribute to a system that increases suffering in the world. We are obviously not going to solve this here and now. I don't think we're going to solve it in the next few months either. But I hope that as many people as possible will continue to focus on these values in the discussion.
i-c25160306fa365e2-200	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking all those who have taken part in the debate. Thank you to the Left Party for the initiative and to the Minister for Migration for the interventions! I think it is important that we have started discussing this, and it will probably continue. These are not problems that will pass until we find a solution that will allow young people to stay. This is something that the Green Party is pushing. Our Congress decided on this last spring. It is about the fact that we have been trying to resolve the situation since 2015 but that it has not succeeded because of the things I have mentioned before. It is long processing times and new practice decisions from the Migration Agency that make what was meant by the legislation not a reality. This is what we are doing. The government has no such proposal at the moment, but it is something that we are working for. However, in recent years it has been the whole intention of the government to decide on this legislation that this particular group should be allowed to stay. They would not be granted temporary residence permits, but permanent residence permits. They would be included in the secondary legislation and would be given the security that it would provide if they could know that they were allowed to remain, go to school and then have the possibility of permanent residence permits. The big problem is the long processing times – considerably longer than we could have anticipated. This affects individuals extremely hard. You can say that you should not do anything but just stick to the present system. That is the only argument I have heard against doing anything. You can also think that you should try to do something to change the situation. I really believe in that later. That is our responsibility: to see whether legislation affects individuals in a way that was not the idea and, if so, to change it.
i-c25160306fa365e2-204	Mr President, I would like to The issue of the situation of the unaccompanied is not easy. I would say that this is one of the most difficult issues that I, as a migration policy spokesperson, have dealt with during this term of office. The balance that needs to be struck is difficult. They're really hard. But the fact that it is difficult must not paralyze us. I have explained in a previous speech some of the Center Party's proposals: that relocations should cease, that legal certainty should be strengthened, that the age of the application should apply when decisions are made, that the person who can support himself should stay, that we should introduce more scholarships and much more. We politicians must take our responsibility and make the necessary decisions. We should not do it on the basis of a fantasy about what it would be like if everything worked out and if everything were simple, but on the basis of the actual situation that we are facing. But for something to happen, we must have a majority here in Parliament. Right now there is no such thing – not for any of these proposals. We in the Center Party are prepared to take responsibility, and we are prepared to discuss various proposals and solutions. But right now the Green Party and the Social Democrats in the government are required to take the next step. Otherwise, there's nothing we can do. Thank you for letting me speak here today.
i-c25160306fa365e2-209	Mr President, I would like to I want to go where Johanna Jönsson just left off. No, at the moment there is no majority to change anything. But I would also like to say what I started by saying very, very first, that all the change and all the struggle for justice has always started out in the streets, in the squares, in the workplaces and in schools. And so does it now. All of you sitting up here in the gallery today are proof of that. The fact that we have the debate here now is proof of that. I understand if many of you sitting here right now may feel hopeless and wonder: Why don't they say that someone should do something? I understand that. But I also tell you that we have changed things many times before. What it takes is for us to have more votes for change and more votes for you. We've done that before. A Social Democratic government has carried out an amnesty before. We can do it again. What is required is that we take each other's hands in a pact that cannot be broken. It'll take time, but it'll work. I am happy and proud to hear the Green Party say very good things. I'm glad to hear a little careful trevare the other way. We who want something else do not stay there. We keep fighting for each other. It's gone before, and it's gonna go again, but we need each other.
i-c25160306fa365e2-212	Mr President, I would like to Let me say a few words about the discussion concerning an amnesty. We previously had a migration policy in Sweden where political governance was much greater in individual cases as well. We left that order, and it was not the parties that wanted a restrictive asylum policy that wanted to change that order, but they wanted to keep it. They thought it was quite comfortable. It was we who wanted legal certainty that wanted to change the order, not least the Green Party that pushed this almost hardest of all. It was a very important change we had in the early 2000s – 2003, I think it was – that meant that we got a new court and process order. This means that the focus is on the individual examination, and the appeal is made in court – in migration courts and the Migration Court of Appeal. I believe that the Left Party wants to change this order. I think it would be unfortunate, because the opposite of the individual examination, the opposite of the right of asylum in that sense – the whole essence of the right of asylum, i.e. the individual examination – are collective decisions. Everyone can stay, says the Left Party. No one can stay, says the Swedish Democrats in practice. It eliminates individual rights in a way that is very difficult to justify. I also think, Mr President, that we should bear in mind that there are also other groups that want to come to Sweden. The waiting times for an association conversation for people in war Syria, in Aleppo, are now over a year. It is therefore over a year's waiting time in order to be able to get out to embassies in neighbouring countries. Is it reasonable that they should wait for one year while people who have a final decision to refuse their asylum applications in Sweden should be given an amnesty? I don't think it's a fair order.
i-c25160306fa365e2-216	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats, as I have said before, defend the right of asylum and that each application should be examined individually. According to law, the authorities are independent in exercising authority under the laws. With a general amnesty for Afghan asylum seekers, it can create false hopes and mean that more people are sending their children on dangerous roads towards Europe. I don't know if that's good. Will even more be separated from their parents voluntarily or, as sometimes, under duress? How many more will put their fate in the hands of traffickers in the hope of a better life? If we broaden the debate, we can ask ourselves: what are we doing for all the girls who are in Afghanistan and who have no chance of coming to a safer world? We are working on development issues, but many of the girls would certainly also like to come to Sweden. What do we do for them? We from the Christian Democrats are working for more legal ways into the EU. We want to see more quota refugees come but that it should be done in a regulated and orderly manner. Finally, I would like to emphasise, Mr President, that we are protecting generous immigration, not only for moral responsibility but also for the fact that it is an asset for our country that people come here. In this legal process, we will definitely always have a child's perspective in focus. Children are the most vulnerable and the most vulnerable. Let us continue to keep the discussion on the situation of children up to date. That is why I thank the Left Party for this debate. It's important. I think it is a pity that it was kidnapped for other things like the Swedish Democrats did. This is a debate that continues to live.
i-c25160306fa365e2-222	Mr President, I would like to Asylum trials always involve difficult decisions. That's how it's always been, and that's how it always will be. All decisions that affect people in anxiety, anxiety, flight, and the desire for a better life are difficult decisions. I feel the commitment to the debate, and I will take it with me. The debate also convinces me that we have the only reasonable order that one can have in an asylum procedure. The division of roles between politics and the profession is important. The government's work continues. As early as this evening, I will be going to Brussels to attend my first ministerial meeting. An important issue that is of great importance to the issue we are discussing here today is the joint responsibility of the 28 Member States. Another important issue and an important message is that we increase the number of resettlement places. This will amount to 5,000 seats in 2018. These are two important elements that, if we succeed in these negotiations, move Sweden's positions forward and also have a bearing on how Europe will be equipped in the future. I would like to thank the co-debaters and parties for an important and committed debate. My work and that of the government will continue with a full focus on protecting the right of asylum, be assured of that.
i-c25160306fa365e2-233	Mr President, I would like to I'll be brief. I have already explained the main argument behind this, but to sum up, we can conclude that we have a situation at present where either of two different scenarios has taken place in recent years. In the first scenario, we have a flow of information within the government and the Government Office where issues of the utmost importance are not properly communicated, where it is generally considered acceptable to deviate from the current legislation and where the Prime Minister not only fails to steer this up but also seems not to be particularly concerned about the situation. In the second scenario, the Prime Minister himself has had information about deviations from the legislation in force and has denied this when questions have been asked about it. Above all, he has not acted and informed the other parties such as the Riksdag and persons who should have been aware of this. Nor has he stopped the disclosure of this information despite the fact that most of the opportunities have existed. No matter which scenario is correct, it is both inexplicable and inexcusable. On this basis and in accordance with Chapter 13 thereof. Section 4, the form of government I hereby request on behalf of the entire Swedish Democrats' parliamentary group that the Riksdag declare that Prime Minister Stefan Löfven no longer enjoys the confidence of the Riksdag.
i-c25160306fa365e2-237	During the summer, revelations have relieved each other of the conscious violations of laws and leakages of security-classified information that have occurred in connection with the Swedish Transport Agency's procurement of IT services. Already at the end of July, it became clear that at least three ministers bore a special responsibility and from the whole opposition a loss of confidence was declared against them. On behalf of the Swedish Democrats, we also announced at the time that in the event that the Prime Minister did not realize the seriousness of their actions, we would regard his confidence as exhausted. The fourth year of the term of office has now begun and yesterday Prime Minister Stefan Löfven (S) presented his government declaration for this parliamentary meeting. This also means that the deadline given by the Swedish Democrats to the Prime Minister to show understanding and take responsibility for the security scandal has expired. It is now clear that national security is being violated not only by the then current ministers, but also by officials and politicians on several levels. A number of people have left their assignments, but on each such occasion the Prime Minister has announced that it was their own decision. Our requested insight has not proved itself. In the meantime, the flow of information has also turned out to be closer to the Prime Minister himself. In addition, a number of crucial questions have been raised regarding, for example, the activities of the Security Council established by the Prime Minister, or rather the lack thereof. Overall, it is clear to us that either of two scenarios has taken place in recent years. Scenario one means that the flow of information within the government and the Government Office on issues of utmost importance works, to say the least, and that the Prime Minister not only failed to steer this up but also takes it with rest. Scenario two means that the Prime Minister prefers to blame others and denies knowledge of such issues and lack of action as a result. No matter which scenario is correct, it is as inexplicable as it is inexcusable. It is our opinion that the Prime Minister does not take his responsibility seriously and the Swedish Democrats are demanding in accordance with Chapter 13. §4 The form of government that the Riksdag should declare that Prime Minister Stefan Löfven (S) does not enjoy the trust of the Riksdag.
