i-47238fe83665ab36-5	Madam President, I would like Marie Granlund has asked me whether I intend to work for the municipalities to have a greater opportunity to curb rocket shooting. It follows from the Order Act that fireworks may not be used without permission by the Police Authority if the use involves a risk of injury to persons or property. There is also a possibility for municipalities to limit the use of fireworks through local regulations to prevent harm to people or property. It is punishable to use fireworks without permission or in violation of a local regulation. Anyone who uses fireworks in a way that may cause injury to a person or property may also be guilty of other types of crime. There is therefore the possibility of limiting and intervening in the current legislation when the use of fireworks poses a risk of harm to others, and I assume that the police and local authorities are acting with the legal means available to curb the problem. I therefore do not intend to take any further action at this stage. However, the government takes this issue very seriously, and I will follow it in the future.
i-47238fe83665ab36-8	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I am pleased that the Government says that the issue will indeed be followed. The past New Year's celebration was very messy in many different places; I would say it was probably worse than ever. In Borås, Gävle, Södertälje, Gothenburg and my hometown Malmö, rockets were used in a completely wrong way – against people, against buses, against blue light personnel, against houses and so on. This is obviously not okay. It was a good thing that no man died in the mess that existed in many places. If you look at the film that is recorded at Möllevångstorget in Malmö, you lose your breath about how it can happen when people use rockets to shoot directly at other people. It was, as I said, pure luck that it didn't get any worse than it was. I know that the Government and I agree that the police should devote themselves to what they are going to do: above all, to get to grips with the bully and to reduce crime. Therefore, I am convinced that it is important to try in various ways to prevent the problem of rocket shooting so that what happened this New Year does not happen again. There are different ways of dealing with this, because it is a complex issue. But I think it is important to know what you have to comply with as a citizen. The Government mentions that this can be regulated in the Charter of Order. Most municipalities have also done so in different ways. But there are limitations. For example, when Växjö Municipality wanted to ban rocket shooting in the municipality, it was not allowed to do so. I think it was the Administrative Court that said that it imposes restrictions on the freedom of the individual. I find it difficult to see that rocket shooting would be part of some form of human rights, but in any case the municipality was not allowed to do so. Many other municipalities, such as my municipality of residence Malmö, know that there will be problems, and there have been problems for many years. There we want to ban rockets in some places – not a total ban. Somewhere, however, there is a problem after the past New Year, and something needs to be done. Another thing is the sale and in various ways try to prevent the sale of the worst rockets. Now the industry has made a move because it felt that the past New Year's weekend was so dramatic and terrible. The industry is now going out with a more restrictive sale of rockets, and I very much welcome that. Again, I think it would be important for the municipalities to have the opportunity to do something about this where they know there will be problems.
i-47238fe83665ab36-15	Madam President, I would like First of all, I share Granlund Marie's view on the seriousness of this. I welcome the initiative taken by the industry to restrict the sale of a number of fireworks. In order for it to be effective, it must also be followed up by responsible authorities, primarily the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness that has to check how pyrotechnics and similar pieces are sold in Sweden. I would also like to point out that, with the municipal charter, a municipality can decide at what times and where fireworks can be used. However, fireworks cannot be banned completely, because that would require a decision in this House, in Parliament. I don't think that would be a good order. I think it's good that at certain times of the year you can have fireworks and light up the sky over our cities. On the other hand, we should be hard on those who abuse this possibility – against those who use wrong pieces or do it in a wrong way. I believe that the combination of an active municipality, a responsible industry and good supervision is the right way to tackle the problem.
i-47238fe83665ab36-18	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. However, I believe that the events are so serious that something really needs to be done. It is true that municipalities can regulate through the Charter of Order. Malmö has done so, but there are certain times when it is not possible to do so. I'm not in favour of a total ban. On the other hand, I think it would be reasonable, with the knowledge that one has in a municipality about where problems may arise, that one also had the opportunity to say: It is not okay here to blow rockets, because that is a danger to people's lives. Today it is not possible to say that, and I think that is a serious matter. It is only a matter of time before any man dies if this continues next New Year, at Easter or any other time. It is important to take it seriously, and I know that the Government does. However, I would like to see the issue and the possibilities to curb it even more and to act preventively so that the municipalities and the citizens know what they have to comply with. The police are under great strain, not least in my hometown, and I think it is important that the police get involved in what they really should be doing. If this can be prevented and prevented in different ways, I think that much would be won. I would ask the Government to review this. Now it is so lucky that the Government comes to Malmö to discuss law and order and other things. Then, of course, this issue will also be raised, and then we will have the opportunity to discuss it again.
i-47238fe83665ab36-21	Madam President, I would like In ten days, February 13, I will be in Malmö and will be there all day. Then I have the opportunity to discuss with a large number of actors, especially the Municipality of Malmö and the police. Just so that we get the current situation clear: A municipality can issue regulations that in one place and at specific times you must not engage in things that can disturb the order. It could be postponing fireworks, taking alcohol or other things. However, in a municipality you cannot completely ban this kind of thing. It must be disorder of order that is in focus. As long as fireworks, alcohol or other things are not prohibited, it will be difficult to completely ban it via the municipality. If you want to do that, you have to pursue this issue in Parliament. On the other hand, the municipality has far-reaching possibilities to limit the extent of fireworks in time and space. I will, of course, follow the matter further, and I look forward to being able to provide the support that goes through supervision so that the serious part of the fireworks industry can restrict the use of these pieces that are actually really inappropriate.
i-47238fe83665ab36-24	Madam President, I would like There is great uncertainty among the municipalities of the country about what can actually be done. For example, the municipality that I come from has regulated that at certain times it is not allowed, but it cannot be said that at a certain place you must not be allowed to shoot rockets. That's a problem. I also feel that what happened during the New Year's weekend is a problem, and it has to be resolved, because this will probably escalate. Then one must probably, I think, look over the possibilities so that those who really have the knowledge in a municipality about where it can become dangerous and happen things also have the tools to get to grips with this. I welcome the Minister very much to Malmö on 13 February, and we will continue this discussion then.
i-47238fe83665ab36-27	Madam President, I would like I thank you for that, and I am also looking forward to sorting out any misunderstandings with Malmö's municipal politician in this particular part. Then I think we have quite a lot to do together with Malmö Municipality and the region in creating a safer Malmö.
i-47238fe83665ab36-28	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has asked me what concrete measures I intend to take to ensure that the police in Skåne and Malmö can fulfil their mission, what concrete measures I intend to take to enable the police to respond more effectively to serious organised crime and what concrete measures I intend to take to ensure that the citizens feel safe again. One purpose of transforming the police into an authority was to increase national capabilities. This ability has led to greater opportunities for the Police Authority to make priorities in the operations by moving resources where they are most needed. I am pleased to see that this works when, for example, Region South needs reinforcements. In order to give the Police Authority the opportunity to increase the number of employees, the Government has announced increases to the Swedish Police Authority of a total of just over SEK 2 billion in the coming years. In December 2015, the government presented a concerted effort to combat organised crime. The action included a number of actions covering the entire term of office. Already in the summer of 2016, some thirty provisions entered into force. Among other things, attempts, preparation and conspiracy to commit serious and particularly serious weapons crimes have been criminalised. Leaders of criminal networks can now be brought to justice because they have not prevented serious crimes of which they have been aware, and opportunities to confiscate criminal profits have increased. The government's work against organised crime continues. More recently, additional measures were presented that will strengthen the fight against organised crime. Among other things, the government wants the minimum penalty for serious weapons offences to be raised from one to two years in prison, which is therefore a doubling. The government has also announced that the minimum penalty for gross violation of the authorisation requirement for explosives, including hand grenades, will be raised to two years in prison – also it is a doubling and also a fourfold since the Moderates had the Ministry of Justice. Furthermore, the Government has proposed increased minimum penalties for certain serious violent crimes, and an investigator has been tasked with proposing new sanctions for young offenders. In addition, an investigation has been set up to examine the need for enhanced criminal law protection for blue light personnel. The government has taken and will therefore take a series of measures against organised crime and for a safer society no matter where they live.
i-47238fe83665ab36-34	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The reorganisation of the political authority with the possibility of a change raised by the Government is good, urgent and important. My question I wrote after a number of events had occurred, and many have been debating these issues ever since. These are important issues, so we will come back to them in the future too. A statement was made some time ago by Region Syd's then boss there and then when the signal went out wide in the television box that the police lacked resources and that when reinforcement was to take place in Malmö people could not expect that crimes involving their home, such as burglaries, would be cleared up. A statement that it sends out signals to criminals that now doors are opened for other crimes to commit when the door closes elsewhere. It doesn't create trust. At the same time, it is clear that it is a cry for something else. It is extremely important for the police to be given reinforcements in the form of people and to be reinforced with funds in the form of money and equipment. You should want to educate yourself and feel pride and security in the profession and at work. It is essential that sanctions and penalties are imposed and that people are locked up when they violate the rules of society. That's good, Minister. It is also important to tie the question of witnesses having to testify in order to provide evidence to convict those who commit the crimes. The situation with the gross violence is extremely clear at the moment. There are reports from the media showing a Sweden that we do not know. It's scary, and many different things happen at the same time. It is about everything from drug trafficking that takes place on open street in Malmö to shootings, robberies and crimes against individuals and traders and entrepreneurs. It is insecurity and restrictions on the life space of people, not least women. Brå's report on insecurity shows that life space has been limited and security has been reduced. 31 percent of women today claim to experience insecurity in the area where they live. Among men, the same figure is 9 percent. Perhaps it has increased because of the things that have happened. Some things have happened after the investigation and certainly before then. This needs to be addressed. In the previous debate, Marie Granlund raised the issue of fireworks. We have both read about Växjö Municipality and their attempts to completely ban this within the city limits. It was a decision that was annulled by the County Administrative Board and then by the Administrative Court. It's about the total ban you've been on. The Government itself has said that a change of law is not a matter of deciding right here and now, at least without looking at the time. It has also been mentioned that the industry has taken action. This New Year was the most terrible experience I had experienced, and then it was from home and not directly in place. There is a great deal to be said about this. I could hardly believe it myself when I read the reports in the media about a youth gang in Gävle who threw firecrackers in a stroller where a baby was lying. It was terrible. Then came media reports that there had been a conversation about rockets fired at people. You have talked about Malmö and what it meant in that case. Sydsvenskan wrote about this. This arouses a lot of emotion, and I would like to ask, in the next round of the debate with the Government, how these issues will be raised in connection with the visit to Malmö.
i-47238fe83665ab36-46	Madam President, I would like The situation in Malmö is very difficult, and the Government is well aware of that. I must say, however, that, in the current circumstances, decisive action has been taken by the government. The police have redirected resources from central to Malmö and the region has redirected resources from other parts of the region to Malmö. We are also tightening up legislation in a number of areas. I can only regret that this legislation is not in place, that the bourgeois government did nothing on this issue. Now the legislation on the possession of weapons is being tightened, for example hand grenades, which have been a major problem in Malmö. The situation is serious, but the government and the police have acted resolutely on the matter. Now we hope that we can really put an end to the misery.
i-47238fe83665ab36-49	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson asked me what to discuss on 13 February. We're not gonna make that call in advance, are we? But I imagine that we will discuss the police's work in solving the many murders that Malmö has unfortunately suffered but also what the municipality can do to prevent. We will also discuss some of the successful things that have been done in Malmö to reduce crime and reverse developments. It may also be worth recalling, for the record, that there are more police employees in Sweden now than ever before. We are spending more financial resources on the police now than has ever been done before. Since this government took over, the Ministry of Justice has submitted 75 proposals to the Riksdag. There are far more than the previous government had presented at the corresponding time. They've all been through in Parliament. The budget for Polisregion Syd, where Malmö is located, has been strengthened by SEK 147 million. Staff support has also been provided in the day-to-day investigation work. And the South Police Region had a net addition in the number of police officers in the previous year. So the number of policemen has increased. This gives both the Police region of Syd and Malmö the opportunity to better solve the crime that has now been affected.
i-47238fe83665ab36-53	Madam President, I would like Governments are operating. Governments make decisions. Other governments are taking on. This also means that jobs on the track are transferred. In 2013-2014, there were studies, which have taken time to carry out, which had been completed and could be taken further. I'm not going to dwell on the past. I want to look forward. I think of the people who live here and now and who are in need of help and support in different ways. I think that I and the Government think quite equally when it comes to the dialogues in Malmö. But I want it confirmed. People go into everyday life. A mother, father, grandmother, grandmother, aunt, uncle, sister or brother-in-law can come out in the morning and go to work but then have no car left, because it is burned out. It takes a long time to save up for a car. People are being destroyed. You put people on the line because they lose their paychecks and they have a lot of problems. Moreover, they are exposed to uncertainty when they want to live in an area. And it arouses emotion. Traders talk about recurrent destruction, both in Malmö and elsewhere, as well as Husby and other places in the country. So the right to break people's daily livelihoods and livelihoods is assumed. It costs money and leads to bankruptcy. People are afraid of being robbed. McDonalds in Malmö is an example. Young people have been hired there. There's been a lot of robberies. It's psychologically stressful for the staff. You have got to close and open in the hatch where you have drive-in instead of being open. And you can't accept cash when customers want to buy their cheeseburgers. For the individual, it is an intrusion, delimiting possibilities. We've also received reports of tragic murders. People have died. And yesterday there were shootings in Gothenburg. All in all, this leads to a desire to know what can be done now, in the short-term work. Much is on the roll in the future, but it will take some time. Things have begun and are underway. But it's gonna take some time. Now Malmö residents – families – have appealed that there should not be more blood spilled in Malmö, that the crimes and shootings should stop. Then it is time to have the open window with the police. They cannot do all the work. It takes an adult world. And it requires that authorities and municipal units – school, social measures and so on – can go in to get the dialogue really started. We need to talk about values and standards, while resources are increasing. These are the parts that have led me to put the question to the Government. Soon people must be able to feel secure. But police presence must not just become the presence of the judiciary. It must also be taken genuinely, so that people can join forces on this issue. What is the answer to this, Minister?
i-47238fe83665ab36-62	Madam President, I would like As I said, the situation is worrying in Malmö. A variety of measures are needed. Cops are a measure. We have received an additional resource and hope that it will really make a difference. But it is also, as the Government said, about prevention. It is about investing even more in school, in recreation centres and in preventing in different ways. It gets a little strange when Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar talks about preventive work. She is part of a party that wants to reduce subsidies to the municipalities. Malmö would have lost a huge amount of money with a moderate-led government. You'd have to cut back on school. Various leisure activities had had to be cut back. Preschool had to be cut back. And they had had to cut back on a lot of social activities. It certainly would not have benefited Malmö. Because we have to work on two things all the time. Of course, prevention is the most important thing. Then there must also be sufficient police resources. This has become the case now. But a moderate government had, as I said, been a disaster for Malmö.
i-47238fe83665ab36-65	Madam President, I would like It may be worth recalling that we have 29,500 hard-working police workers, which has led to many murders and shootings having actually been cleared up and resulted in long prison sentences. Eight people were sentenced to life and to long prison sentences for the high-profile murders at Vår Krog & Bar in Gothenburg. In a similar sentence, there were 18 years in prison for two people who executed one person in a forest. And we have similar cases in Stockholm. In Tensta, crime has decreased by 65% since the police have increased their efforts. In all socially vulnerable areas of Sweden, we now have more police officers than a year ago. And in Rinkeby outside Stockholm, a new police station is being built for over 200 police employees. I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight what Marie Granlund was talking about, namely prevention. I want to add and praise the many good contributions made in Skåne. The rescue service is actively working with preventive activities and has reduced the number of fires sharply. Private companies in Malmö take their responsibility and make sure to only have serious and right tenants. I think this is a work that both municipal and private landlords around Sweden could learn a great deal from. Malmö is also actively working to reduce social gaps and to employ young people. In this perspective, it is also worth mentioning that we now have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 13 years. School results are changing, and gaps may begin to narrow. This is important in order to combat the root causes of crime in the long term.
i-47238fe83665ab36-69	Madam President, I would like I want to start by saying that it is very important that we take up and clear out these things. It is important to know that things happen while things happen that are positive. Those of you sitting in the gallery hear that what we are talking about are the big problems. Much is also happening that is amazing. My party partner wrote the other day on Facebook: 中 Behind every black number, headlines and notices are people. It is important to always think about in both the small and the big world. And sometimes common grey everyday life is what you yearn for the most. There are probably many, including ourselves, in this country who now long for the grey everyday life. This affects people. The police have a job to do. I stick to the preventive work. I do not share Granlund Marie's view that it would be worse. Every day teachers go to their jobs and meet young people and children. Every time they talk about and discuss these issues, they make huge joint efforts. There are people who have lived in Malmö for 23 years and who have been in exclusion with benefit dependency. That has not been the solution, and I do not think it is the solution forward either. That is where our policy differs. That will certainly be addressed by the Government in its next speech. You have to break the trend and get people to work. A role model in the adult world is extremely important in order to move forward in society. Today, unemployment is 15% in Malmö. Malmö has put a lot of work into receiving people. But it is also important that these people do not get caught up in exclusion. We must be able to receive them and they must be able to get into society in a good way. Outsidership that has lasted for 23 years says that there is a big problem to solve in Malmö, with or without alliance government.
i-47238fe83665ab36-77	Madam President, I would like I just want to take this opportunity to thank Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson and Marie Granlund for a good debate. We can say that we still have a positive trend in Swedish society. We have broken eight years of growing unemployment to falling unemployment. We've broken eight years of falling school scores to improved school scores. We are beginning to narrow the gaps in society. There are more police employees than ever before. In the next few years, the government will contribute more than SEK 2 billion to improve the Swedish police. I think we agree on the importance of tightening up the legislation and methods for tackling serious and organised crime. I look forward to continuing the debate when I come to Malmö on 13 February.
