i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-21	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating national targets and orientations for disability policy. It is a report that contains a lot of good things. Above all, it is a report that contains a great many fine words. But fine words are not enough. Fine wording in the objectives we set ourselves is not enough unless the wording, ambition and objectives are backed up by action. And there it breaks in our country today. As a Christian Democrat, I am pleased that the committee has supported our joint call for an alliance in order to include in the objectives also that society should be based on diversity, that we affirm that we people are different and that it is a basis on which we should also build on the objectives of disability policy. But in the government proposal, the government is clear about what we have seen in the area by area of welfare. The government believes that high ambitions should not be combined with a priority when it comes to financial resources. The government clearly says that here we should have high ambitions for disability policy, but it must not cost. Let us consider whether the government would say that the same principles should apply in other areas. We are going to raise our ambitions in terms of climate and environmental issues, but it must not cost. We are going to raise our ambitions in terms of infrastructure, but it should not cost. We are going to raise our ambitions in terms of education, but preferably it should cost less. These are not the government's ambitions in other areas, but these are the government's ambitions in this area. They are contained in this bill, in the government's mission to the authorities and in investigation directives that are linked to the issues we are discussing today. They also exist in the daily reality. When we read Försäkringskassan's analyses and forecast follow-up, we can see that last year, but also this year, billions of savings are made on what is perhaps one of the most important efforts for people with disabilities, personal assistance. For each forecast the Social Insurance Agency leaves, we can see that additional billions are saved, and that in a situation where the fine words say that we should have high ambitions and based on the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities should have a society with the rights to achieve equal living conditions and full participation of persons with disabilities. It is a situation in which words and actions are not connected. We Christian Democrats have had several proposals that have not been supported in the report. Among other things, it is a question of raising the ambition further in terms of the opportunities for people with disabilities to be fully involved in the labour market. Today, being a parent or being able to carry out your work does not count as a basic need, but that is something that we Christian Democrats have proposed. The report also raises the issue of car support. It is another area in which the government, when it has made changes, at the same time takes the opportunity to accept that there will be savings. We Christian Democrats see a great need for this to be followed up, because the ambition to improve seems to have led to deterioration. This is something that is further about to be tried in the legal process by the person who has other support now being able to risk getting rid of his car support and the possibility of freedom that it means being able to bring his own car forward. Many who have had the opportunity to have their vehicle adapted feel that it is the only situation in their existence where they are actually regarded as completely equal to their other fellow road users – a situation they do not achieve at other times of life. We have a government that looks at and does not act in a situation where savings after savings are made on people with disabilities and at the same time tries to make it appear that one has high ambitions. It is not worthy of a welfare society. It is not worthy of our country. Mr President, I would like to For time-winning, I only call for reservation 7 but naturally support all the reservations of the Christian Democrats.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-29	Mr President, I would like to As Emma Henriksson said, today we are debating our new national goal and direction for future disability policy. But in addition to this bill, we handle a number of exercises related to the area. First of all, Mr President, I would like to support the proposal and our reservations. However, for time to come, I only support paragraph 2 of our reservation to the motion for a comprehensive approach to disability policy and, of course, to reject the other motions. As I said, the proposal contains proposals for new national objectives and, above all, their direction and direction. The aim is to make disability policy more effective, to create a longer-term perspective and to introduce a higher degree of clarity than before. In order to achieve this, it is extremely important that all actors in different parts of society participate and cooperate. A disability policy for a more accessible environment benefits all of us in our country. The new target for disability policy is more focused on disability and will replace the old one. The previous disability plan in force and which, among others, the Alliance was involved in developing has proved unclear during evaluation, and several forms of governance have been used for the same objective. In practice, the policy has not had the desired impact. An evaluation carried out by the Swedish Agency for Participation shows that there are still many large and small obstacles to participation in society today. Unfortunately, the living conditions of people with disabilities are worse than those of others in the population. It is true that progress is progressing slowly but surely and that some groups in the disability movement have improved. All in all, however, we are still seeing major gaps in our country, and so it is extremely stimulating that our government has spent considerable resources and investments in our welfare and people's efforts during this parliamentary term to counter the gaps. The basis of the strategy is based on international commitments on human rights, including the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The Convention means that we must have equality in our living conditions. We should have the right to live an independent life and be able to participate in society on the same terms as everyone else and have access. Accessibility in this case is not just about the physical environment but also about information and communication. We Social Democrats want a society where different needs and conditions should not determine the possibility of participation. It is the first renewal of the national disability policy objectives of 17 years. The Government sees the proposals as an increase in ambition where the overall message is that disability policy in Sweden is based on our international commitments to human rights, among other things. The proposal sets out a number of measures or principles designed to contribute to the national objective of disability policy. In addition to measures in areas such as transport, community planning and IT policies, particular focus is placed on measures in the areas of labour market and education. The first principle is that we should have a universal design. It means taking a holistic approach. For example, if you set up a new train station, you should look at the whole picture. The second principle is to address gaps in accessibility. The third principle is to target individual support and solutions for individual autonomy. The fourth principle, which is extremely important, is non-discrimination, which means preventing and combating discrimination. I will mention some areas that I think are particularly important for this group. One is measures for a better and more accessible labour market. As you know, many people with disabilities are currently outside the labour market. This has many different consequences, including putting one in a difficult economic situation. The government has taken a number of measures here, including a substantial increase in resources for Samhall, and there are investigators looking at flex jobs. Then there are measures that focus on everyone's right to education, and that is the same thing there. Equal access to education lays the foundation for participation in society. As you know, education is also important for personal development. Here, the government has already invested extra billions in school with the help of, among other things, the welfare billions. It is clear that increased staffing in addition to educators and special educators will all benefit. In particular, the Government wishes to highlight the problem of disability and to commission the Special Educational School Authority to analyse and submit proposals for support material to enable all principals to organise preschool and school so that all children and pupils are given the opportunity to a greater degree of participation. The same applies to the transition between secondary school and working life. The last area is measures for more equal health. Here too, unfortunately, we know today that people with special needs or disabilities have worse health. Action must therefore be taken in this area too. In addition to the strong addition of resources that the government has given to health care during this term, it is about attitude and evaluation, but above all about knowledge about how to handle a disability in health care. Mr President, I would like to In order to be able to implement the eight definitively, it is proposed that SEK 13 million be added to the Swedish Agency for Participation, which together with county boards and Swedish Municipalities and County Councils will take steps to put this strategy into effect. There will be a further investigation in this area to review how to achieve an effective disability strategy that has a real impact and an increased pace of reaching the UN Convention on Human Rights objectives.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-51	Mr President, I would like to 13 million – that's a good bet. It is important that the authorities responsible for monitoring such activities are given increased resources to do so. At the same time, it should be compared with the 2.8 billion savings expected in the current year in the area of assistance compensation alone. There are other areas where considerable savings are also made in that people in need of social support no longer receive it. My question to Mikael Dahlqvist is: can you, as Social Democrats, still stand up for the fine words that the government has put forward in the ambitions of disability policy when you do not actually take the necessary measures? The measures needed are changes in legislation. The legal situation has changed. We have received the documentation from Försäkringskassan. The government is waiting and waiting for new evidence. We see how the inflow to assistance compensation is continuously decreasing since November 2015 and that the outflow is increasing. People who were entitled to support as the legislation was interpreted earlier are no longer allowed to do so. People who should have been allowed in no longer receive the support that we once agreed in this House that they should be entitled to. These are not active legislative changes proposed by the government. It is the government's inaction not to restore the law that makes us have the situation we have now. There is a verdict, which came this summer, where the government has said: We will quickly look at it. However, the total dismantling that has taken place over two years is not doing anything about it now, but is gratefully receiving the savings that this area brings.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-56	Mr President, I would like to I think you're throwing stones in glass houses, Emma Henriksson. We can be comforted that the government is now acting on the basis of the case law that has come, by stopping two-year trials. This phenomenon has been known since 2009, and you know it just as well as I do, Emma Henriksson. Your government representative at the time had – excuse us – the same message that you are criticising, namely that assistance is too expensive and that there are frauds and irregularities. On this basis, I think we can be honest with each other and say that this is a problem that we have not been able to deal with for perhaps ten years. I also object to you using the word savings, Emma Henriksson. You know, like me, this is a right law, which means it's a current account. This is not something that the government has reduced in the budget, but it will be paid out at every year's end when we get the cost. That's exactly what it is. This means that the Authority assesses what needs exist, and then the State pays the cost. Run that rhetoric in some other way; this is not fair. There's no such thing as savings. It is a complex piece of legislation that has been hollow. It has been known almost since the law came into existence. But why has nothing been done before? At least now the government is trying to attack this. Let's see what the investigation will show in a few weeks' time as to the consequences of the judges.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-62	Mr President, I would like to I am clear to say that it is the legal situation that has changed. That means savings. What the government is guilty of is that it has not taken the necessary measures to stop this. There is a tool that we as legislators have to use when the legal situation has changed and that is no longer what was our political intention when we adopted the law that applies, and that is to change the law. It is the government's responsibility to begin this work. We've received evidence from the authorities. Already in previous years, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has shown in black and white in an investigation commissioned by the Government that there are above all two judgments that have led to these consequences. Until November 2015, when this government was in charge, the number of aid beneficiaries remained at a fairly stable level for a long time. The judgment that came in 2009 has also had an effect, but comparatively a very small effect. Since November 2015, we have seen the number of persons eligible for assistance decrease by more than two people a day. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency, the responsible authority, says in its analysis – requested by the government – that the reason is the judgments that came in 2012 and 2015. But note well: the 2012 judgment was only applied in 2016. It only came into force after the government had said that it is prepared to make savings in the area of people with disabilities. It is the government's acceptance of the situation that means savings and that makes people no longer feel safe today. My question to Mikael Dahlqvist is: can you Social Democrats passively watch and let it happen and still stand up for the words contained in this report?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-69	Mr President, I would like to We can stand here and discuss back and forth, Emma Henriksson, when these symptoms of hollow legislation began to appear. But it actually started already in 2009. When you were in the majority during the last parliamentary term, we had the same rhetoric, asked for a hearing and also received an announcement with the same criticism that you are making against us. What did your minister in your party do who was responsible for the question? Nothing was done. The problem is that this has been going on for a long time. Then I agree with Emma Henriksson that this has accelerated over the last few years because the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has started to apply what the trial has led to. Then we can consider why this became applicable after so many years. Nevertheless, I believe that the government has now acted as adequately as possible. They analyse the judges, they have asked for an investigation, they are asking for rapid analysis and, in addition, there was a bill for a general halt to the two-year review. I still feel that we can stand up for disability policy, and we have the same ambition that the intentions of the LSS should apply. Let us see what happens with future publications.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-74	Mr President, I would like to I will try to stick quite strictly to our view of this report and the motions that have been made. There is today a majority for two announcements. One is that there is a need for a holistic approach to disability policy, and the other calls on the government to return to the Riksdag with proposals that mean that all persons with disabilities who have been granted an operation should also have the right to choose their own performers. These are announcements that we support and think are good. Many motions in this report are rejected because there are investigations under way and there is a great deal of preparation going on. I therefore believe that we will have every reason to discuss these matters again in the future when we have the investigation on the table and concrete proposals to take a position on. As far as the right to freedom of choice for users is concerned, we believe that this right is partially eliminated. Persons who have a need for assistance exceeding 20 hours per week for basic needs receive help with this via Försäkringskassan. They thus receive an hourly allowance calculated on the basis of a flat rate. However, people whose needs are less than 20 hours per week receive help via the municipality. The municipality then decides the hourly compensation itself. This often means that the hourly allowance is far too low and is not sufficient to use any assistance other than that provided by the municipality. We believe that freedom of choice will then be compromised. We believe that the compensation system needs to be reviewed in order for it to look the same in all municipalities. For us, it is important and central that it looks the same throughout the country. It shouldn't matter where you live. It is not reasonable for persons with a need exceeding 20 hours to receive compensation based on a standard, while persons with a need of less than 20 hours receive compensation based on what the municipality has decided. It can therefore distinguish from the municipality to the municipality, and we do not think that is reasonable. That is why I am in favour of reservation 10. I have the same attitude when it comes to aids. We also want to promote freedom of choice and make everyday life easier for people who need tools. The facility system simply needs to be reviewed, so that the availability of assistive devices is equivalent throughout the country. We believe that there should be an authority tasked with developing national guidelines for tools to ensure that facilities are offered on equal terms throughout the country and on the basis of a national pricing model. We also believe that the Health Act should be clarified as regards aids for normal leisure and recreational activities. Mr President, I would like to Another important tool is guide dogs. Today, there is a great shortage of guide dogs to the visually impaired, and the waiting time may be over three years. We believe that the regulatory framework for getting a guide dog should be reviewed. If I have understood correctly, by law, you have to be 18 years old in order to be able to get a guide dog. Maybe there's a reason to look at whether that's the way we want it. Guide dogs are on duty for a certain period of time, and even though you know that a dog is going to retire, it is not possible to get in line for a new dog. We believe that this should be reviewed. When you have shaped your whole life according to the conditions you have and the dog then retires, it is not reasonable that you have to wait perhaps up to three years before you get a new one with the insulation that it can mean. It is also important that we try to lower the thresholds for functional impairments so that they can get to work. The number of unemployed among disabled people is high. Every fourth unemployed person in Sweden has some form of disability. This means that you may not always be able to take a regular job and work fully. The Swedish democrats have for a long time been exercising that there should be some kind of flex job. If you have reduced work capacity, this means that with a flex job you can work 100 per cent of your individual work capacity and get a salary of 100 per cent. The employer, of course, only pays for the time actually worked, and the state provides the rest of the money. Flex jobs have been in Denmark since 1998, I think, and that has worked very well. I think the idea of flex work is excellent. Flex jobs mean, as I said, that you work on the basis of what you can. The employer pays based on the work that has been done, and then the state provides the rest. I am aware that such work is going on. We welcome this, because there is a great need for more flexible measures to enable people with disabilities to get to work. Another group that may need some extra support to get to work are people in need of sign interpreters. The current contribution for employers to apply for is very limited, and it is still administratively complicated. Therefore, we are pleased that the Government decided in April to commission an investigator to improve this and review the need for more flexible opportunities for people with disabilities so that they can get a job – or at least retain the job they have. In order to be able to move around so that you can actually get to work, it is important that other functions also work. This is why we want to see a wide-ranging study that reviews various actions regarding the mobility of disabled people. These include, for example, public transport, the transport service and, not least, the car support, which we have been talking about here. You should review this and look at how it can be supplemented and interact with assistive devices, parking permits, escorts and more. Mr President, I would like to This is how I have presented the Swedish Democrats' wish list on this particular report at Christmas, but I can say that the wish list in general is much longer than this. However, the common thread of this list is about facilitating people's everyday lives and, not least, making it easier for these groups to have some form of employment. Guide dogs, sign interpreters, escorts, various types of assistive devices and travel services are examples of things that enable people to get out to work and be part of society, get out in leisure activities or other occupations – simply live as independent a life as possible. Mr President, I would like to I support reservations 10 and 17. I would also like to take this opportunity to draw the House's attention to the fact that we Swedish democrats will also support reservation 7 in voting. I said in committee that we wanted to wait for the joint writing to be done. Since then I have been a little less attentive, so I have not supported that reservation. However, we will support it in voting. My carelessness does not change majority relations, but I apologise for that error.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-91	Mr President, audiences, viewers and listeners! The red-green feminist government, as you now all know, is working long-term and determinedly to develop and strengthen welfare policy. Any one of us in this House, you in the gallery or all of you who otherwise follow the debate in this House may at any time suffer an accident of such a kind that those of us who do not already live with any kind of functional variation will wake up to a completely new life of disability. It can be as simple as that. In other words, disability policy is not a policy area for a particular group in society, but is a policy area that we should all really be protecting. We can never know when, as a relative or victim, we may have reason to regret that we have not put greater emphasis on and prioritised policies in the field of disability more. Everyone's right to live a good life is one of the basic reasons why we have a common sector. The resources required should be available on the day we need them, no matter what the reason for the needs. The Government has submitted a proposal to the Riksdag entitled National objective and orientation for disability policy. In its SoU5 report, the Committee on Social Affairs has dealt with the Government's proposals and a large number of requests from several motions. The committee mainly supports the Government's proposal for a target formulation for disability policy but chooses to make some minor additions to the wording. What the committee does is to add concepts such as, where appropriate, diversity, gender equality and, where appropriate, children's rights perspective. Although it may seem obvious in such a text, we in the Green Party believe that one can never be clear enough. I would therefore like to thank the opposition for having contributed to the fact that the wording has clearly been much better during the discussion in committee. It now reads as follows: The national objective of disability policy is to achieve, on the basis of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, equality in living conditions and full participation of persons with disabilities in a society based on diversity. The objective shall contribute to increased gender equality and to taking into account the perspective of children's rights. ..................................................... I think it sounds very good. On the other hand, Mr President, we in the Green Party do not share the opposition's view on how to work with a holistic approach. If you mean that you first have to straighten out all the questions, wait for all the investigations and referrals and carry out all the analyses that this can give rise to – because that is how the opposition formulates itself in the text of the report – there is unfortunately a clear risk that you will never get along. It is quite common that investigations lead to new issues that in turn need to be studied and so on. The Green Party believes that a holistic approach is an analytical method and that steps can very well be taken towards the overall approach as different facts emerge. You don't have to wait for the last piece of the puzzle to build a better and more modern policy. In the bill, the Government presents a number of measures that contribute to the achievement of the national goal of disability policy in several different policy areas. I think that shows that the overall approach can be taken, even if it has to be done gradually. What the government reports is, for example, about measures in the field of transport, social planning, IT issues, labour market issues and education. In combination with the efforts and missions presented by the government and the announced investigation into the design of a long-term governance and follow-up system, we in the Green Party cannot see any need for the announcement proposed by the committee on a holistic approach to disability policy. I therefore propose that reservation 2 be approved. With regard to paragraph 12 of the report, on the possibility of choosing the personal assistance officer, I think the committee is in a somewhat boring position – in a kind of conflict that unfortunately risks ridiculed policy. The Government has commissioned the LSS investigation to look at the issue and makes the assessment that there is therefore no longer any reason to call for further action. However, the majority of committees do not share the government's view but maintain that a further announcement is necessary. In fact, this attitude can be used as an example that the kind of holistic approach that the opposition believes can only be taken when everything is investigated, consulted and evaluated will never be possible. If the committee never stops making announcements on a single matter and if the government reacts every time by setting up a new investigation, then the situation that the opposition seeks will never arise. There will always be unfinished investigations, ongoing referrals and so on. When are you going to be able to take that holistic approach? Instead, the Green Party shares the government's view, at least for the time being, that the announcement is taken care of in a reasonable way – we will then see what it results in – and that the question is about to be answered. Therefore, further announcements are not really very constructive, but perhaps even counterproductive. Mr President, I would like to The need to improve procedures and follow-up in order for the right compensation in the welfare sector to be paid to the right person, and not least in the field of disability, we were once again reminded of in yesterday's news flow. The newspapers then reported about a person who had been wrongfully deceiving the system of 4.7 million. Every time this happens, and every time the media reports on it, the legitimacy of the forms of support for the most vulnerable and those most in need is unfortunately at risk of being undermined. It is therefore an important task for the authorities concerned to constantly develop and improve their management in order to minimise the risk of aid being given to people who are not supposed to have it. Although it is a very small part of the total that falls into the wrong hands, every time there is a serious problem of legitimacy and solidarity in society. The report also addresses the issue of making the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities law, as well as the issue of a national institution for monitoring the progress of the implementation of human rights in Sweden. I understand that we in Sweden have quite agreed to interpret the so-called Paris principles so that this type of control mechanism for such activities must be subject to the parliament in order to guarantee independence from the government. As I understand it, therefore, the idea has been to place any such authority as a complement to the JO. The government has therefore submitted the matter to Parliament, and the Constitutional Committee has examined it. However, the investigator noted that there are other ways to guarantee independence than to place such a control institution under the parliament and that there may even be problems in doing so. I believe that the Constitutional Committee has adjusted its report today and that this means that the matter is now going back to the government. The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities does not really give new rights to the disability group. This Convention is more about the tools to ensure that the rights of this group already contained in the Declaration of Human Rights are effectively respected and respected. That is why the question of an institution for monitoring human rights issues is very important. That matter is not on the table of our committee, at least not at the moment, but of course it is up to us to keep an eye on it all the time. It is important that we achieve such an institution in some way, especially for the people involved in this report. Mr President, I would like to The Green Party obviously supports its reservations in the report, but for time-winning, I only call for reservation 2. Otherwise, we support the report.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-113	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put in principle the same questions to the Green Party as I put to the government party Social Democrats. We have here a report on a high level of ambition with regard to the objectives of disability policy. At the same time, there is what is going on here and now, day by day. There's a breakpoint. There is a time after which the effects of the changed legal situation can be clearly seen: November 2015. Since then, the number of persons eligible for assistance has gradually decreased. In the responsible authority Försäkringskassan's own follow-up of what is going on – when the authority tries to explain the trend towards fewer and fewer being eligible for assistance – it points out the changed legal situation mainly on the basis of two judgments. One of them started to apply immediately when it came in 2015, and in early 2016 it started to apply another, earlier judgment. As a result, the number of persons eligible for assistance during this period has decreased by more than two per day. The Social Insurance Agency also points out that this has accelerated further in recent months this year. This will do your government nothing about. You act quickly when it comes to a sentence that came this summer, but you actually do nothing about the previous judges. An attempt is being made to freeze the situation by removing the two-year trial, but it does not help a single person out of the more than two per day who have lost his or her assistance allowance. Does the Green Party think this is acceptable? Do you think that this is consistent with the ambitions of the report on which we are now to decide?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-119	Mr President, I would like to Emma Henriksson has a very high tailline on this issue. It would be interesting to hear what Emma Henriksson would do about the situation if she were the minister responsible. In fact, unlike the previous government, this government has taken up the issue. We have an LSS investigation that will come up with proposals. We have given several assignments, even in the letters we send to the authorities. This government is acting, unlike the previous one. Emma Henriksson knows that it is in fact the case that no decisions have been taken by this government that reduce the rights of the disabled group. This government has made no such decisions. The application of the law is solely the cause, so putting the government at risk for the development that has taken place is not really serious.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-122	Mr President, I would like to You have a responsibility for what you do, but you certainly also have a responsibility for what you do not do. This is the major problem of this government. You stand and swear yourself free from responsibility and say that you have done nothing. That's the problem. Something happened in November 2015, when this government was responsible. Your own responsible authority points to the same time and says that after that it has only become worse. The government doesn't do anything-- that's the problem. I can give the honourable Member an answer as to what I would do if I were the minister responsible – what if it were so well! Then I would change the legislation. That is our responsibility. When the legal situation changes, we change the legislation. We Christian Democrats have made that proposal. We have tried to initiate a committee initiative on this issue. We have dealt with this and it has been explained how we have dealt with it in this particular report. Change the law to restore what was once our most important freedom and security reform! Now people cry when they get in touch with us. They are terrified of the changes this entails. The Government refers to making it clearer what support the people concerned should receive from the municipalities. Last night, I received an email from a parent couple in their 70s. They told me that their grown-up son has now lost his assistance. They thought the support from the municipality would help them. However, it turned out that this support means that assistants have to go down SEK 5 000 per month's salary, since the municipality is replacing with lower hourly costs. Parents can no longer afford to keep their son's assistants. Two parents in their 70s have to go in and take even greater parental responsibility. This is a dismantling of our most important security system. We would change that if we were in government, but what does the current government do?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-128	Mr President, I would like to Emma Henriksson is absolutely right when she claims that the government says we have not done anything. It is that we have not done anything or made any decisions that have led to this situation. That's absolutely right. But Emma Henriksson is wrong when she says that we have done nothing about what she herself would like to do, namely to change the legislation. I do not know how irresponsible legislative changes an alliance government could consider doing. However, we know that the LSS legislation currently in force is very hollow, and it was a bourgeois government that implemented it. We are not interested in doing bad legislative work, but we want to do it thoroughly. That's why we've set up investigations. We think it's necessary, but it'll take time. In all the contexts in which we have talked about this issue, we have said that our intention is to look at the intentions underlying the bad legislation adopted in 1993 and to ensure that this legislation is renewed and becomes a law that also holds for trials in the Supreme Administrative Court. That is our aim, and we have said this time and again. Don't try to say otherwise! That is our ambition.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-134	Mr President, I would like to We're going to have a society that's accessible to everyone. Irrespective of the condition of function, it shall not be an obstacle. It's about every man's freedom to shape his own life. People should not be met by a society that builds barriers to education, employment, active leisure time or commitment to the society in which they live. A society accessible to all is a fundamental democracy issue. One step towards full participation is to be able to make a living through your own work, to be able to influence your own life through work and education – perhaps by running and developing your own business. The Center Party believes that those with such a wide-ranging disability that a job is not an alternative should have the right to social pay and support for a dignified and active life to the extent possible. However, a greater focus is needed on how people with disabilities can have better opportunities to participate in society and support themselves. We need to get better at seeing the forces and, for example, making it easier for employers to hire people with disabilities. Self-employment can also be a way of breaking exclusion. People with disabilities today face many obstacles if they want to develop their entrepreneurship. In short, opportunities for people with disabilities need to be improved. Unfortunately, the government does not seem to take this very seriously. The wording of the bill concerning the labour market for people with disabilities needs to be even more concrete. In the Center Party, for example, we have been pushing for a long time to make it easier to hire, and we also have concrete proposals for that. This involves, among other things, opening up competition to the Public Employment Service and allowing private, non-profit and municipal actors. By allowing more actors to pass on jobs, performers can specialise in matching for different areas, such as different functional conditions. I have also mentioned entrepreneurship as a way of breaking exclusion. However, people who, due to a disability, need different support, such as measures under LSS as well as activity and sickness benefits, today have virtually no opportunity to start their own business. Even if the will, knowledge and ideas exist, there is a great risk that you will get rid of the support you need or that the support is simply not adapted for self-employment. Mr President, I would like to Increased access to education is also a key factor in breaking the exclusion of people with disabilities. This issue, too, is dealt with only superficially in the government proposal. I may think that Parliament's announcement should have been taken up this spring that the government should specifically review how access to post-secondary education for pupils with intellectual disabilities can be improved. The Center Party believes that there is a need for improved opportunities for people who go or have attended upper secondary school to be able to study further and enter the regular labour market. Among other things, it is about the possibility of funding their studies. There is also a need for greater transparency that sets out the conditions for maintaining support for moving to work or studies. The lack of predictability in terms of aid is currently creating uncertainty and a severe restriction on access to training and work. The government's proposal largely misses people with intellectual or cognitive disabilities. This applies to both work and education. It is regrettable, as these groups are often excluded from our society. The Center Party wishes that the government in the bill had taken a holistic approach to the question of how the exclusion of persons with disabilities can be broken. The fact that more people come to work independently of functional requirements is one of the most important issues to be solved in order to get a society that stays together. Everyone should have an opportunity to influence their own situation. If you have a disability, it is therefore important that the help and support you receive is adapted to your own needs. There is a need for increased opportunities to decide for yourself on the content of the aid. Mr President, I would like to The Alliance parties have tabled a joint motion in which we emphasise, among other things, that the goal formulation of disability policy should continue to include a link to human diversity as a basis. I am grateful to the majority of the committee for supporting this request as well as for the need for a holistic approach to disability policy. However, I regret that the government and a majority of the committee do not see the need for additional directives to the LSS investigation to investigate the conditions for including the exercise of parenthood and work in the basic needs and to secure the basic intention of the LSS. Mr President, I would like to I support all of the Center Party's reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 3.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-152	Mr President, I would like to In your speech, Per Lodenius, you mentioned that cognitive or intellectual disabilities are not present, but perhaps I did not perceive you correctly. All types of disability are covered by the disability strategy. There is no distinction between different types of difficulties. As far as labour market policy is concerned, it is quite interesting. I thought this job coaching was a closed chapter, given the result we got. Now the Center Party is again proposing job coaching as a solution for people with disabilities. We know what happened to that reform last time. I would say it was a great disaster. In order to bring people with disabilities into the labour market, the Center wants to reduce wages. That's how you want to get more jobs and lower the thresholds. How will it help an already weak economic group?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-155	Mr President, I would like to It was a lot at once. Let me start with the job coaching. I talked about the provision of jobs, having special knowledge in being able to convey jobs, find jobs and understand what needs there are. We have been running this for a long time and have been clear about what it is all about. It is about reforming the work of the Public Employment Service and the work of communicating work. The Center Party does not want to cut wages. But we have said that lower entry wages may be needed for more people to get to work. It is a simple and effective method. It's not about cutting wages. It is about people who are currently outside the labour market being able to get a foothold into the labour market. Instead, the Social Democrats choose to leave everyone who does not currently enter the labour market outside. For us, it is about making it easier to enter the labour market, regardless of whether you have a disability or not. So it's about starting wages. I talked about clarifying and working with, for example, opportunities for education. Today it is almost impossible for those who attend or have attended a special school to continue their studies. Here we have made an announcement. I myself and the Center Party have been running this for ten years. At last, we have included all parties in the Riksdag. I wish that education issues had also been raised in general. It is not only about those who have been in special education, but also about the fact that it can be difficult to move to where the particular education you want to go is. Today it is not feasible to have some aid, because we do not know whether the aid is included. This mainly affects those who have been in special education, but also others with different disabilities. I wish this had been clearer, and I hope that Mikael Dahlqvist will agree with me on this point.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-163	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Per Lodenius, I agree with you that there are things that we need to develop in terms of both primary and secondary schools, because the transition to the labour market is difficult to take. Here I share your view, and I appreciate your commitment. Since the government has contributed quite many billions of this term of office to strengthen the school, it is on the ground that municipalities and principals also look to the whole when they use this resource enhancement. It is interesting to take note of your speech on labour market policy, because unlike the Center Party and the Alliance, we do not believe in wage cuts. We know that it will have a domino effect on all groups, eventually also on those who do not find it difficult to enter the labour market. In particular, Per Lodenius, this will affect weak individuals. Those with disabilities will be among those who lose. There's another vision. We believe in a Sweden where you match skills and quality instead of reduced quality. As far as labour market legislation is concerned, there are independent evaluations, including those carried out by employers' organisations. Lower entry wages are no key at all to solving the problem of thresholds entering the labour market that we have talked about. On the contrary, the social partners have successfully managed Sweden's wage policy in an exemplary manner with relatively few conflicts and in harmony. But as I said, we have different views on this. I understand that you want to privatise. Excuse me, Per Lodenius, but it reminds me a little bit of the job coaching system you introduced last time. What will be better if private actors do this instead of the state?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-169	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to round off the discussion on entry wages and the possibility of entering the labour market. It is a question of those who are currently excluded from the labour market being able to enter the labour market. There are many different investigations and studies that show that this is a possible way forward. It is even the case that trade unions have now begun to turn around. Employers are now making agreements to look at if you cannot have lower entry wages to get more people into the labour market. I believe that the Social Democrats are starting to stand quite alone with the idea that this is not going to work. It's about going from alienation to inside. It is about more people being able to enter the labour market and then be able to move forward and make a career. As far as the Employment Service is concerned, we need to open up the possibilities of communicating work and finding those who are experts in finding the jobs. Unfortunately, the Agency does not function in this way today. The Public Employment Service carries almost no jobs at all. We need to open up for better matching and employment. Mr President, I would like to When it comes to education: Yes, the municipalities have a great responsibility for schools. However, post-secondary education at university or university of applied sciences is a government responsibility. I would like the government to really do more now when it comes to opportunities for those who have been in special education. We decided on an announcement this spring. All the parties were behind it. But I still haven't heard from the government about these issues. They're welcome to contact me. I have a lot of background that you can work with.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-172	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are debating new national targets for disability policy, which are to be based on the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The implementation of disability policy should, according to the Government's proposal, focus on four areas: universal design, accessibility, individual autonomy and the fight against discrimination. Basically, this is about every person in the country being able to live their lives. We'll be able to work, study and have a family. We should be able to go to the movies, go on a date or be active in a political party. We are going to build a society where we can all move freely and be active citizens in a democracy, a society where none of us will be discriminated against. We in the Left Party support the proposal and believe that these are important objectives, because they are objectives that are binding. Mr President, I would like to The government says that disability policy is part of the work for a more equal society, where people's different backgrounds or circumstances should not determine the possibility of participation. These are big words that have little value if they are not filled with action – action that goes in the right direction. I do not think it has escaped any of the terrible developments we have witnessed in terms of personal assistance. The right to live our lives is under threat. The government itself says that personal assistance is a key element in achieving the goal of individual independence. However, with this insight, I wonder how it can be concluded that no other concrete measures need to be taken because the LSS investigation has been set up. I am surprised because the directives for the investigation referred to by the government do not contain as much as a word about adjusting the law to all the judgments that have been handed down, the judgments that are now destroying the LSS reform. It does not say a word about this. On the other hand, the directives breathe a clear desire to save money, and it is the assistance that should be ironed out – the effort that, according to the government, is a central part of the individual's independence. Mr President, I would like to Setting goals is an obligation. Then it is not good enough with one hand to demand rights for people when, at the same time as the other, they are being taken away from us. That's not how we work in the Left Party. That is why we are calling for the directives for the LSS investigation to be amended so that the one-sided focus on costs is completely removed. We also call for the LSS to be adjusted in view of all the judgments that have fallen, not just the latest. Mr President, I would like to The policy of the Left Party is based on the fact that we want a fair and solidarity-based society in which every person should have the opportunity to live a good life, regardless of the background or circumstances. We know that people with disabilities as a group generally have worse living conditions and less opportunities to participate in society than the rest of the population. But we also know that women with disabilities consistently have worse living conditions than men. Women, for example, receive less support to get into work, receive less assistance and do not receive the help they are entitled to if they are victims of violence. For a feminist party like ours, it is an obligation to make these differences visible and counteract them. Disability policy must take a more feminist approach. We also know that the situation of LGBTQ people with disabilities is an issue that too rarely receives attention. With the oppressive standards that exist in our society, people suffer double discrimination without anyone acting. When RFSL initiated the Funkis project, it could be seen very quickly that there were major gaps in knowledge among those who meet these people. Therefore, we believe that a first step is to map the situation of LGBTQ people with disabilities in order to gain knowledge and make the problem visible. Mr President, I would like to We, the Left Party, believe that the objectives that we should decide on today are very important. The ambition is to give stronger and clearer links to the functional rights convention and the implementation of Agenda 2030. It shows that it is the Declaration of Human Rights that is the foundation on which disability policy should be based. We will stand up for our inviolable right to live our lives as free individuals. But for the government, this is a whip. Now the Riksdag will push through the proposal, and the government has adopted goals that require them to act in order to live up to their own proposal. We naturally support all our reservations, but in order to save time, I only ask for reservation 7 and reservation 18.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-184	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I agree with all the reservations expressed by the Liberals, but for time to come, I only agree to reservation 7 in paragraph 6. Mr President, I would like to For us liberals, it goes without saying that people are amazingly different. We have different genders, gender identity, sexual orientation, age, origin and outlook on life. We also have varying functionality. Persons with functional variations are available in all ages, classes and occupational groups. They live in the city and in the country, alone and in families. They work, they're students, they're unemployed and they're sickness pensioners. They have different values and different interests. They're pretty much the same as everyone is. It is not a homogeneous group that is sorry about, which is outside, that one should take care of or that is vulnerable. It is individuals who are everywhere in this now with ambitions and life dreams. It is people with preconditions who, in some respects, may be different from the majority, but these people are an incredibly important part of the community and have every right to participation in it as part of the skills capital that is the foundation of our welfare society. Disability policy is about making that right a reality. It is about independence and self-determination. A liberal policy always seems to create the conditions for everyone to become their very best self. Respect for individual freedom and dignity – not group membership or functionality – is at the heart and the point of departure. It is a matter of diversity, Mr President, not of monolithicity. It is particularly important when it comes to people who have faced obstacles in life in different ways, people for whom freedom is not always self-evident and for whom freedom must be defended extra much. Mr President, I would like to The Liberals present our views on the proposed objective and direction of disability policy in the joint accompanying motion of the alliance parties. We also have strong views on what is missing in the bill. For example, in the field of education and the labour market, the proposal has the character of a letter and appears to be a fairly complete account of the government's disability policy. Although you can have a detailed view of it, it is quite good, and we agree with a great deal. But we want more, which our movements also report. But, Mr President, there are other key policy areas which, in principle, the proposal and the report ignore completely in silence, despite the fact that there are both investigations and various missions going on. This applies not least to one of the four areas that the government itself identifies as particularly important in order to achieve the objective of disability policy, namely individual support and solutions for individual autonomy. An important element here is, as many previous speakers have mentioned, LSS and personal assistance. This is also stated by the government, albeit in a small sideline. However, the government's intentions for LSS are not mentioned in a word in the bill. It is particularly remarkable when the most important proposal of the bill is that the UN Convention should now seriously shape disability policy and when Sweden on the same point has been severely criticised for not living up to the convention precisely in terms of cuts in the field of assistance. With a strongly tightening practice, and with the good memory of the government, the proportion of people who are refused new applications for assistance compensation from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has become record high. There has never been such a high rate of rejection in the history of legislation. This also applies to the number of persons who receive reduced or withdrawn assistance in the event of a review. The effect is clear. The burden on individuals, relatives and the environment is often overpowering. If we take the system perspective, the overwhelming of municipalities, county councils and regions is increasing every day. Mr President, I would like to There is an LSS investigation that is due to be completed in October 2018, the month after the election. Then it will be quite a long time before legislation is in place. We in the Liberals believe that this is totally unacceptable. Today's proposal cannot be distinguished from the essential elements on which such legislation is based and pretends that it does not belong together. Those who have lost their assistance do not feel better with fine words today. They can't wait. The government claims that the investigation will propose a modernised legislation with a holistic approach. But with the directive of the investigation, that is not possible. The Government expressly states that any improvement proposals within LSS will be funded by savings in the assistance compensation. In addition, more savings in assistance may need to be made for fiscal reasons, you write. Liberals' demands are clear. The timetable must be revised. There is a need for a fast track, and politics must be connected. People shouldn't have to wait. The government must speed up the investigation and also come up with additional directives for it. It should be directives focusing on good living conditions, independence and participation of people with disabilities. These are to be new directives where more people, not fewer people, have their human rights. It should be directives that give everyone the opportunity to become their best self. Mr President, I would like to In the area we are debating today, one can say that Sweden's welfare is falling apart. Not everyone's allowed in anymore. The government's action through the policy it pursues against people with disabilities has this effect. Let us now, together, allow the proposal that we shall decide in about three hours' time to become the turning point for a policy of freedom that will allow everyone to truly become their best self. There are sharp proposals in the report. There is an announcement that we can jointly support. There is still time for the government parties to support them and make this a common political starting point for a better future.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-197	Mr President, I would like to A large part of your speech was about LSS, Bengt Eliasson. As before, you accused the government of savings. I don't think it's fair. It is still a right law that comes on current account where the authority decides on the needs that it has the right to receive help with. The government has not changed a comma in the legislation. I think that we can conduct the debate in a fairer, straighter and more honest way, Bengt Eliasson. What do you mean by the good memory of the government? What do you insinuate when you suggest that it does nothing when the rejections increase? That is exactly what this government has done in contrast to your government and your party last term of office. We've set up a lot of investigations. The basis of that, as you say, is a solid LSS investigation. I'm incredibly surprised that you saw it before you've even seen the investigation proposals. One should be able to have an investigation in peace and quiet. Then we will have to discuss what measures we need to take, and I hope that we will have a broad agreement. Sawing a very broad investigation from the beginning is a matter of concern to me. I would like to conclude by saying that the government has announced today that there will be a PM until March when it comes to the end of two-year trials. It is incredibly fast and effective to act. Unfortunately, it does not help those who have already been affected today, but it does help the new ones. In addition, there has been a review of cooperation between municipalities versus the county council and LSS. In any case, it gives the municipalities a breathing space. There are more bodies than the state that carry out health care and care.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-202	Mr President, I would like to In order for the water to flow out of a bathtub, someone must pull out the stopper, Mikael Dahlqvist. That plug went out of autumn 2015. It began with a statement by Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson who was then diluted and finished elegantly in December with a new regulation letter to Försäkringskassan. That's where the water started to drain out. It gave the mandates to be able to reject and to use and implement the judgments that had previously been on ice to make harsh interpretations where practices have changed very strongly. In two years, the government hasn't done anything. That's what I mean by quiet. It has had the opportunity to do something for two whole years. It has chosen not to do anything. The ongoing investigation focuses solely on economics. I mentioned it in my speech, and I can mention it again. It is not possible for the investigation to come up with new proposals for a new improved LSS but rather only a worse one for those who use it. It must not cost a penny more than it costs today. It says explicitly. All reforms will be funded by the assistance allowance, and there may be additional savings for fiscal reasons. This is cut and cut directly from the investigation's directive. Where are the actual improvements for those who need the legislation in this, Mikael Dahlqvist?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-206	Mr President, I would like to These are quite serious accusations made by Bengt Eliasson. Courts and authorities in this country are independent. It's written in our constitution. If you then think that the government has acted wrong, you should file a KU notification, but I do not think you will have any success in the matter. I think you have to be careful how you express yourself. I personally have asked the Director-General of the Social Insurance Agency on several occasions, and she answers the same every time: we act independently, and we are obliged to comply with laws and new case law. There is no other agenda. It is simply because of the hollow legislation produced in 1993 by the People's Party, among others, as it was then called, and that it was written a little too quickly. The ambition now is to ensure that the legislation fulfils the functions that we agree on in the long term and effectively, i.e. that the people who need support and help should get it. Neither you nor I know what's coming out of this investigation. In addition, a majority decision shall be taken. I have not seen any investigation either from my government or from your previous government that has financial obligations to do. Rather, I think it is a matter of taking responsibility for every tax chandelier going to what it is intended for rather than just going out to the wrong measures. Surely we can agree on that, you and I, Bengt Eliasson: The tax money is not just for those who need support and help. It makes more sense for us to direct the money to those who really need it. Then we shall ensure that this is done in broad agreement; I am convinced of that.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-210	Mr President and Mikael Dahlqvist! I read from the regulations: Försäkringskassan will actively contribute to reducing the number of hours of personal assistance. It is a direct excerpt from the regulation letter to Försäkringskassan in autumn 2015. That's what pulled the plug out of the bathtub. That's where it all started. That's where a race started from a pretty stable level. It is a race that is now up to over 1,200 people who have been squeezed out of the state assistance allowance. This is not reasonable, and it is not worthy of our society. That Försäkringskassan follows its mission from the government is quite natural. That's what an authority should do, and you do it, of course. We are in complete agreement on that. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency and all the authorities have an independent mission to follow the mission of the current government, and here the government has given this mission. Every day we see ministerial colleagues of Åsa Regnér, who is responsible for the issues, standing on television and saying that there is a need for legislative review in a variety of legal areas where practices have been shifted or where legislation is insufficient to protect society or to support citizens – except in this area. We saw a few weeks ago that something new is coming. I think it's two to two and a half years too late. One has had the opportunity, and one has obviously not wanted to. That is what I mean when I talk about the report and the proposal: there are many parts that are good, and I am pleased that we are now getting a holistic approach to disability policy. This is a good skeleton, but it lacks the supporting parts. And that's not good.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-215	Mr President, I would like to Ten years ago, the Alliance Government decided to sign the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The Convention and its Protocols entered into force in 2009, and the Alliance Government presented a disability policy strategy based on the Convention. Disability policy is part of the work of a more equal society, where people's different backgrounds or circumstances should not determine the possibility of participation in society. The report on which we now have a position sets out a number of measures aimed at contributing to the national policy objective and orientation of disability policy. It is important that there is also an addition in the case that the Alliance has proposed that it should be a human diversity as a basis. I am also pleased that there is agreement in committee on the wording. The committee also proposes an announcement to the government that a comprehensive approach to disability policy needs to be taken and that the government should return to Parliament in accordance with the decision taken earlier in this House on the choice of the person entitled to assistance in the selection of the performers. You have to choose for yourself. I naturally support the committee's proposal. It is important that we here in the Swedish Parliament take the necessary decisions to get the right conditions for these children, young people and adults so that they can live a life that is as equal as possible to what the rest of us live. This is a fragile group, and we shouldn't let them down. We shall ensure the quality and conditions for these people to live a dignified life. Mr President, I would like to All children, young people and adults should be given the opportunity to test and develop their abilities and knowledge to their full potential regardless of age, gender and disability. This can, for example, apply to work or studies. With regard to the LSS action, which deals with daily activities for people of working age, the law describes in its preparatory work that this activity should aim to develop the possibilities of the users and participants to work. Personal assistance is a reform of freedom that we are proud to have introduced. It is a reform for greater freedom in its very best sense. But there are also shortcomings in this reform in structure and form. There is a need to review elements of the reform in order to develop higher quality, clarity and sharing of responsibilities and competences. Order and order in welfare are crucial. It is basically a question of what approach you have and from what point of view personal assistance issues are considered. We Moderates protect everyone's right to a more mobile life. It should not be the case that a disability means that one is suddenly seen as part of a collective with exactly the same need for support and service. Everyone with a disability should be able to participate in society on as equal terms as possible, and the support should be jointly and severally financed as necessary. In addition, it should be accessible to everyone regardless of the ability to pay the individual or where in the country he or she lives. We need a more flexible labour market, where we see the health and provide the conditions for people with disabilities to work and feel needed. The rights to work on equal terms are governed by the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The UN has also set global goals for sustainable development, which are part of the 2030 Agenda. One of the interim objectives is to achieve full and productive employment with decent working conditions for all women and men by 2030, including young people and people with disabilities and, of course, equal pay for equal work. The starting point is that the efforts for disabled people should be accurate, flexible and cost-effective. They should also be simple and clear and interact well with other efforts. Mr President, I would like to The Government's directive to Försäkringskassan, combined with a narrower interpretation of the case law, has resulted in many having been reduced or fully withdrawn assistance. This, of course, creates concern for all those who are affected by disabilities, but also for their relatives. Today, municipalities are responsible for most of the contributions to their residents. As a rule, county councils and regions are responsible for advice and other personal support, and the Social Insurance Agency is responsible for the assistance allowance granted. We must ensure that it becomes clear who is doing what. It must not be arbitrary judgements that determine whether the weakest in society should be allowed to participate in community activities, and one should not fall between the chairs of various benefit systems. Here we need to simplify and clarify – all in order to make use of the equal value of every person in our society.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-232	Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats certainly had a point in the previous speech here. When the Moderates sat in power and held the tact stick, they did not act when one saw the evolution of the first judgment. We have been pushing the issue of amending the legislation for almost ten years. During this period, when there was talk of an investigation, we were clear that we did not want a unilateral focus on costs in that investigation. This was due to the fact that the rhetoric of the previous government was also about cheating and criminality and the need to save money. I am concerned that we have now come into a situation where the current government seems to have postponed the matter to the next elections. The investigation is being presented in October, and we do not really know which one of you is going to rule in the future, so I wonder: Are you in the Moderates prepared to sit down with us and negotiate for us to come up with a solution, so that this issue of changing the law is not balled back and forth between governments?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-235	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maj Karlsson, for a good question! I believe that all of us sitting in this House have a common responsibility to ensure that we have fair rules and clear laws that can be understood and treated right for those who need it in relation to the LSS. When it comes to costs and other things, we want to focus on quality. Quality is what is important, and we have seen that this law – and I also believe that we have a common interest here – is not clear. That's why we want an investigation into it. We want to see a full investigation with all the cards on the table to assess what we should do about this law. That is our basis for the whole thing. Then one can say that the alliance government has also set up investigations into these complex issues. I expect us to have a full investigation where we can see the bigger picture and that we can make a good and clear law after that.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-238	Mr President, I would like to The problem is, in this investigation, there's nothing. There's nothing about us changing the law. We have a proposal from the government that we should change the law after the last verdict, but in the investigation there is nothing concerning the other judges that is why we are seeing the terrible developments in assistance today. Your answer worries me. I agree that we must agree, but we must also agree on what needs to be done, and, as you say, we have had many investigations. I think we all agree that it is case law that has actually broken the law. In our view, there are two brake blocks in this, and that is the Moderates and the Social Democrats. One of you must take active responsibility and go out and say: We want to change the law. That's what it takes.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-241	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to turn this around. You are one of those who supports the government parties in terms of the budget, Maj Karlsson. I find it a little strange to support a budget where electric bicycles are subsidised. Maj Karlsson could have said: No, we do not support this budget, because we think it is much more important to invest in LSS. That's something you're passionate about. But we have not heard that, but you support the government's budget, which gives priority, what we think, wrong things. You and your party could make a difference by not supporting the government in such matters.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-243	Mr President, I would like to I have asked for the floor once again in this debate because, during the course of the debate, new tasks have emerged. The Government has today presented on its website the proposal for changes based on the judgment that came this summer, i.e. 2017. We have heard in this House from the Minister last week and from representatives of the government parties today: we are waiting for evidence, and when we have received that evidence, we will see whether we should perhaps also do something about the previous judgments that have changed the legal situation. The first basis that the government is waiting for will come tomorrow, and before that comes, the government will now go out and make proposals. Of course, I have not been able to analyse this entirely yet, but I would still like to read out some of what the Government's proposal says: For the purposes of this test, a precedent shall be followed. However, a review under the provision cannot result in the insured person being granted more hours of assistance allowance. Such a decision requires an application by the insured person or a notification by the municipality... This means that only changed circumstances adversely affect the insured person's right to assistance compensation which should be the basis for a review. ..................................................... Here and now, the government has a responsibility to ensure that we restore and improve assistance compensation. Instead, while the debate is going on in here, the government is taking further initiatives that could lead to further deterioration. It seems that we are now putting an end to two-year trials and this is supposed to save people. In practice, however, one looks silently at when the deterioration affects people here and now. Is that something for which the government parties actually take responsibility?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-249	Mr President, I would like to On the basis of the debate that has taken place and the new tasks that have emerged in the meantime, which, of course, I have not been able to understand yet, I would like to say that this issue of signal policy is very important to highlight. We spoke earlier in a change of line that it has taken two years and that the government has done nothing. From the government press conference about two weeks ago about the two-year removal of the trials in a forthcoming proposal, it took Försäkringskassan less than 24 hours to change its routines – less than 24 hours, according to the answer to a direct question in the Social Affairs Committee. We will see what the direct consequences of today's announcement are, for nothing has yet happened more than a press conference. The same is true today: today proposals for something to come have been presented. It is quite serious with a government that refuses to take the debate in the political rooms with sharp proposals, but instead devotes itself to sending signals and then swearing free and saying that no law has been changed. No, you haven't, but you've sent powerful signals that actually change people's lives. What today's message from the government actually means remains to be seen, but sending signals in different directions that we are denied the political debate and sharp political decisions are very serious.
i-RRNWfQcLzcfqBTkxTLrMWF	Welcome to Question Time! An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. I would like to extend a warm welcome to the Ministers of State. Questions are answered today by Minister Ibrahim Baylan, Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson, Minister of State Ardalan Shekarabi and Minister of State Heléne Fritzon. The Government of Ibrahim Baylan answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-252	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson. New statistics from Brå show that exposure to sexual offences is increasing strongly in Sweden. At the same time, we know that the number of reported rapes has increased by as much as 41% in just ten years. There is a need for a broad package of measures against sexual offences, a broad mapping exercise, better support for victims but also increased penalties. Sweden has not increased the minimum penalty for rape offences for over 50 years. It's high time now. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: is he prepared to tighten the minimum penalty for all rape crimes - yes or no?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-255	Mr President, I would like to There are two major themes in criminal policy this autumn. One is about organised crime, which must be picked up with its roots. The second is about the sexual crimes. We saw a few weeks ago that the Crime Prevention Council, in its national security survey, pointed out exactly what Tomas Tobé is talking about, namely an increased exposure to sexual crimes. The Metoo campaign and the Metoo movement also show that this is happening everywhere, in all sectors of society and in all classes of society. It is found in the suburbs, and it may also sometimes be in the law firms on the nice street. There are no areas which are not affected. In the coming weeks, we will be presenting a large number of proposals that strengthen the view on sexual crimes. This applies, among other things, to the major reform of sexual crime legislation with consent regulation, a negligence crime and also to the strengthening of penalties for sexual offences in general. We come with this before Christmas, Mr President.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-258	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Justice and Home Affairs knows very well that there is broad support in the Swedish Parliament to ensure that we have better legislation in place. But my question, Mr President, was whether the Minister is prepared to raise the minimum penalty for all rape crimes. They haven't been raised in 50 years. We Moderates believe that rapists should sit longer behind bars. What's the answer, Minister?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-260	Mr President, I would like to It is good to hear that there is broad support for making such a reform. There wasn't while you were in the government. On the contrary, you put a brake on all forms of change and reform in the area of sex crime law, with which we Social Democrats went forward. We are now delivering what is the biggest criminal justice reform during our term of office, with, among other things, increased penalties, negligence offences and consent regulation. If there is anything else we need to do, I am, of course, interested in discussing it further. However, it is we who are delivering this major criminal justice reform.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-263	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister of Migration Heléne Fritzon. In recent years it has become increasingly clear what value Sweden has in the area of migration for reception in Sweden and for people who come here. This week I have noted two things. The government has launched an agreement that makes it possible – so it presents it – for people who are staying here illegally after having received a refusal to stay in Sweden despite their lack of protection. Only these are covered. In many cases, they may have had their age recorded, possibly lying about their age from the beginning, and are adults. At the same time, expulsions of highly skilled staff and key persons who themselves have not committed any fault are continuing but are affected by errors made by their employer several years ago.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-267	Mr President, I would like to My answer to Paula Bieler is that at the beginning of the week the government presented a proposal containing three parts. The proposal aims to respond to current issues in the area of migration. Due to very long processing times, we want to provide an opportunity for upper secondary school studies for those who came as unaccompanied children and young people before 24 November 2015. They will then be granted a temporary residence permit. With this, we take responsibility for the long processing times. We also give a message about the temporary law that gives us a good planning space and a good position in the negotiations at European level. Finally, we are also opening the way to reform the EBO. These are important responses to the migration debate.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-272	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Minister only talks about the agreement and does not mention in one word all the expulsions of key people who themselves have committed no fault in the workplace. There are companies moving from our country, and we send out very clear signals to the outside world that these people are not welcome. Those Sweden cares about are the ones who can stay despite rejection. These are adults, who have no grounds for protection and who have therefore abused asylum law. In these cases, efforts are made to find solutions so that they can stay and even study at our expense.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-274	Mr President, I would like to This gives me an excellent opportunity to answer the question of the residence permits we have for work. Here, too, the government has presented proposals. We also have an ongoing investigation that will be presented before the end of the year. We have a full focus on the fact that the person who does a job should not have to be punished for minor errors. We want to protect in every way that you can have work in Sweden.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-277	Mr President, I would like to I turn to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. Östersunds-Posten wrote on Monday's leader that it is defiant, idiotic and expensive to shut down air traffic control. It was written because Swedavia and the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration announced last Thursday that the air traffic control will be closed down at a number of regional airports and the air traffic controllers will move to Arlanda.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-280	We know that Åre Östersund Airport, which is my airport, is growing, and it is very much because charter traffic can land there. I think we all agree that an on-site air traffic control is better than remote control from Arlanda.
i-RodKe656ETB7m3f6d13gtH	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Per Åsling, for the question and commitment! The infrastructure policy issues concerned are not my responsibility. But when it comes to localisation decisions, there is no doubt that the government is now actively acting to reverse the centralisation trend that we have had in Swedish administration. We have already decided on relocations of eleven government agencies from Stockholm to other parts of the country, and more relocations are coming. With regard to decisions taken by authorities dealing with relocation, we are now working to get legislation in place. It will be a governance that means that the authorities must also take into account the common interest of the state to exist throughout the country. Then it is important that we have order for this. Right now it doesn't work that way, which means that the authorities make decisions independently of each other. It can have the effect of reducing the overall presence of the state in certain regions, and that is totally unacceptable. The Swedish state must take responsibility for the cohesion of our country.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-284	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. It is extremely important for the government to demonstrate its capacity for action here and to ensure that the state authorities, which the government can govern, do not continue with the centralisation that is now taking place in a number of different cases. I would therefore urge Mr Shekarabi directly to put an end to the proposed centralisation of these 40 jobs.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-286	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Per Åsling once again. I am pleased that there are also forces on the bourgeois side in this Parliament that stand up for the need for the state to take greater responsibility for cohesion and work on relocation. We had a debate here not so long ago where the Moderates strongly attacked the government's relocation policy. It is good that there are also bourgeois Members who view things differently. We will ensure that the Swedish state takes responsibility and exists throughout our country. It will continue to require active government decisions. Authorities are to be moved from Stockholm.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-288	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ibrahim Baylan. We were recently able to hear Heléne Fritzon go through the new focus on migration that we were able to see at the beginning of the week, including the one on unaccompanied minors and young people who came before 24 November 2015: that the temporary legislation should continue to apply for a third year. What I want to ask you in particular is the possibility for asylum seekers to settle on their own. We get countless comments and questions about this. It feels good to hear that it will be turned into a worthy home – it is very much awaited. We get reports of abuses such as overcrowding and false contracts, difficulties for children, for example, reading homework and even sleeping in their own bed and lack of opportunities for good establishment. Now I ask the Government: What will these changes look like, and when will they come?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-293	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Carina Ohlsson, for an important question! The government continues to take measures to strengthen the establishment of newcomers in society and the labour market. As the so-called EBO law is designed today, it will provide the opportunity for people to seek their own accommodation. The idea behind this is to increase freedom of choice but also to make integration easier. However, as Carina Ohlsson says, we have received many signs that this is not really working. That is why the government has agreed to reform legislation so that it becomes a criterion when looking at housing to also look at whether it is dignified and whether it benefits integration into the labour market and into our society. There is an investigation going on, and when it presents its proposal, we will refer it to Parliament as usual and then present a proposal to Parliament.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-297	Mr President, I would like to The reports and votes that we hear come mainly from municipalities that have taken a very large responsibility in the area of migration. They are often the ones who get applicants for their own accommodation because they already have asylum seekers. I think it is important that these signals clearly go out to the municipalities. I wish there was a proposal already today. How fast can it come? Does the Government have any thoughts on this?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-299	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Carina Ohlsson! I very much admire the eagerness with which Carina Ohlsson runs this issue. The issue is also important to us. The Swedish people have often had the view that it is important that those who come here are spread over more municipalities and more residential areas. We have already introduced a law that means that we have a refugee reception that is taken jointly and severally by all municipalities. We are now moving forward with this proposal. An investigation is under way and it will present its proposal. As soon as that proposal comes, we'll move on.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-302	Mr President, I would like to We still have major problems in terms of honour-related violence and repression. Thousands of women and girls are affected by this problem in our society, including boys, for that matter. For many years we have been pushing this issue in the Swedish Parliament and the Committee on Justice with announcements, i.e. demands for monitoring of statistics and demands for stricter penalties. Today, the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs decided to support the Liberals' motion for a resolution to introduce their own criminal harassment in the area of honour-related violence. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Minister of Justice whether the government is prepared to accommodate us on this point, because we have a large number of dark speeches. Last year, at least ten people died because of honor-related crimes. But the number of darkness is great, and the data is scarce. So the question is whether the government will meet us on this point.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-306	Mr President, I would like to Crimes committed with honorary motives must be punished more severely than other crimes. If you get knocked down on the city by an unknown offender, it's bad enough. If you get knocked down by your own family, by your parents while the rest of the family cheers, and it may also have been preceded by social exclusion, that crime is of course worse. It should also be punished harder. That is why, just over six months ago, we commissioned the Justice Council of Mari Heidenborg to review criminal law in this area. What she's looking at is a possible penalty. Whatever the crime – if it is assault, murder, kidnapping or any other crime of this kind – it should be punished more severely if it is done with honorary motives. She will come up with her proposals on this next year, and then I will move on to Parliament with this. It is important that we tighten our eyes on this type of crime.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-308	Mr President, I would like to When the Liberals and their comrades put forward the proposal to increase penalties and strengthen the penalty base for the honour-related violence dealt with in the Committee on Justice last spring, the S, MP and V reserved themselves against the motion. We welcome the fact that the government is now listening to the demands we made in the committee as early as spring 2016. Today, however, we are dealing with our own offence of honour. Will the government approve of our motion here too?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-310	Mr President, I would like to I have already answered that question. We will tighten the penalties for crimes committed with honorary motives. Then there are different techniques to use. There we are simply waiting for the investigator who is now working on this. It's nice that you now agree on this in the Alliance. You weren't in the eight years of your reign. Then you did nothing in this direction. On the other hand, we pushed this into opposition. We are now also delivering this kind of punishment.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-312	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Heléne Fritzon. The Government presented the agreement on Monday, which will allow some of the young unaccompanied minors with expulsion decisions to obtain temporary residence permits and stay on the basis of studies. But the law will come into force only this summer. If the government does not do anything to stop the expulsions of those who may be affected, two things will happen: Some young people will feel compelled in desperation to hide – without a roof over their heads and without support – in order to be able to search when the law is in place. It will lead to misery and vulnerability. Other young people will be expelled without being informed of the legislation that has just them in mind. A government that talks about order should understand how important it is that none of this happens, both for young people and for society at large. What are you doing in the government to prevent that?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-316	Mr President, I would like to The statement of Monday is without prejudice to the right of asylum. It's fixed. The legislation we have today is, of course, solid. The proposal does not contain a stop to rejection. The legislation we have is, of course, to be complied with. I think Christina Höj Larsen also wants that as a Member of Parliament. I also believe that the Left Party wants us to have order. It is true that Swedish law, passed by the Swedish Parliament, applies until we say something else. The proposal put forward by the Government means that we propose a temporary regulation which, if it wins the Parliament's voice, can enter into force in the summer of 2018 at the earliest.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-319	Mr President, I would like to I am, of course, aware that the law applies. The question is whether the government understands the consequences of the proposal they made on Monday. At this very moment, 50 young unaccompanied minors, who have turned 18 or been registered for age, are in custody around Sweden. They will be deported. A lot of decisions will fall out in the spring. All these young people will suffer. What does the government intend to do?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-320	Mr President, I would like to The consequences that Christina Höj Larsen describes are two. One is that we give a clear message to those who came in autumn 2015 and have waited a very long time. The second, which is a problem, is that today we have – and even before this proposal was tabled – far too many people who choose not to go back when they have received a no and thus remain in Sweden. This requires a variety of measures; time does not allow me to present them.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-322	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address my question to the Minister for Coordination Ibrahim Baylan; it concerns the school. It is gratifying that the PISA results have turned upwards slightly, albeit from a very low level. What is worrying, however, is that equivalence has deteriorated. Students in exclusion areas often live in social and economic vulnerability and are in particular in need of the school's compensatory role. We Christian Democrats have therefore proposed additional resources and more adults in school, through extra school money to vulnerable areas. The resources will go to expanded pupil health, more special teachers and teachers in Swedish as second language and more first teachers. The best teachers should be encouraged to teach those children who most need help and support. The Christian Democrats, like the government, therefore have an effort to increase equality in school, but I am curious about the concrete proposals of the Minister for Coordination for a more equal school and to help children in exclusion areas.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-325	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Annika Eclund, for an important question! For 20 years I have been very committed to school issues, and this is one of my big issues. I think one of the finest things about our society is the ambition to make sure that all children, no matter who their parents are, if they are rich or poor, educated or uneducated, get a good start in life. Then the school becomes extremely central. Unfortunately, that is not the case today. We see increased differences; we have been doing so for a long time. We need to address this in a number of ways. The budget proposed by the government to Parliament contains a very strong investment of 6 billion precisely to increase equivalence. How these funds are to be used must be left to school principals and teachers to decide. It is the students' needs that should come first. We also have a number of problems with our entire freedom of choice system, which also needs to be reformed, so that we can increase equality that way too.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-329	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your answer. The Christian Democrats spend as much money as the government does for this very purpose. However, if the budget allocates EUR 6 billion to an equal school, I believe that citizens expect us to know where the money is most useful. Today, there are schools that receive twice as much school money as others. When we set aside this great amount of resources, we need to know that they provide maximum benefit. I do not have any concreteness from the government as to where these resources should be directed.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-331	Mr President, I would like to The proposal is based on the very good work done by the School Commission. The starting point must be the needs of pupils and schools. It is the schools that have the toughest conditions that will be eligible for this effort. What, then, is the case? According to the research, it is the competence of teachers – that you meet committed and knowledgeable teachers. This very powerful historic effort will suffice to employ many knowledgeable teachers.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-334	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. Some time ago, I and some other Social Democratic MPs from the Stockholm region arranged a round table with entrepreneurs working with sustainable innovations in our region. We wanted their views on how our region but also Sweden in general can become even better at promoting sustainable innovations, so that together we can increase our competitiveness and create more jobs and a better environment. Entrepreneurs had many important points of view; one concerned public procurement. They feel that these are often designed in a way that benefits old technology, locks the development into old, proven technology and thereby inhibits new solutions.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-337	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Åsa Westlund! This is what we have been good at in Sweden and something that made Sweden strong during the 20th century. It worked in collaboration with the business community to develop innovations through public procurement. We have become worse at this in recent decades, and that has to do with juridification. The regulatory framework has had such an impact that we have become more focused on not making mistakes than on doing the right thing and using procurement as a tool for innovation. That is why we are now working – and we have been doing this since the change of power in 2014 – to strengthen innovation elements in connection with public procurement. We have developed support for all contracting authorities and suppliers. It is about having an early dialogue before the procurements, so that we identify the obstacles that stand in the way of innovation-friendly procurements and changing the procurement documents. Annually, over SEK 600 billion is spent on procurements. If we can use the money better, we can get more innovations.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-340	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. I would like to hear a little more about the interest of the municipalities and the state authorities in working in this way. When it comes to setting regulatory requirements, such as environmental requirements, how do you feel that you are following developments so that you can really be at the forefront and so that companies that have innovative solutions in the pipeline know that it pays to invest in them because society will demand the new technology?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-342	Mr President, I would like to The interest is very great, and a number of contracting authorities are at the forefront and develop methods. I would like to highlight Region Skåne, which works actively with innovation-friendly procurements and also starts to see the impact of these procurements. However, much remains to be done. It's about changing our approach to public procurement and ensuring that we get more actors in this industry who are focused on innovation. This will require changes.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-344	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Heléne Fritzon. This applies to the law on own housing for asylum seekers, a law that has been in place in Sweden since the mid-1990s. When it came, the idea was that it would give a faster establishment of new arrivals in Sweden when they could settle where they wanted. Today we know that the law has had many negative and unwanted consequences, both for society and for individuals: overcrowding, segregation and exclusion in many Swedish cities, not least in the part of the country that I come from. We know that a poor and insecure housing situation affects individuals and the family's power to actively participate in and cope with their future planning in society – the power needed for language education, education and self-sufficiency.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-347	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Niklas Karlsson! The description you give of EBO is a reflection of reality. We both come from the southern part of Sweden, from Skåne, and this has been brought forward in several of the municipalities, not least in Malmö. The intentions of the EBO were good; it would benefit integration. Now we have rather ended up in a situation where we are met with overcrowding and segregation. Against this background, the government has proposed a reform of the EBO. We look forward to the report of the Reception Investigation, which will contain parts of this, and then the Government intends to come back on this issue.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-349	Mr President, I would like to I'm glad for that answer. Like the Government, I have a background as a municipal politician. We have both seen the direct impact of this legislation on our societies. We also know that across party boundaries around Sweden there is a broad perception that EBO legislation has negative consequences. We must hope, when the government returns with strong proposals, that this view also brings together a broad majority in the Swedish Parliament.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-351	Mr President, I would like to I agree that there are many testimonies from the municipalities. Since we tabled the proposal, we have also noticed that it is welcomed by the local government sector. The descriptions are about overcrowding. There is more than one family in an apartment, often with many children, impaired opportunities for schooling, impaired health and so on. This really leaves a mark on children and young people as they move forward and face the future. I really look forward to discussions on a reformed EBO, a more dignified home.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-354	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Morgan Johansson. Everyday nights and nights there is a police car throughout southern Lapland – an area almost as large as Denmark. 30 000 people live there, each paying as much tax as the rest of us. A woman who is abused by her common-law spouse may have to wait two to three hours before the police are there if she dares to call. This is everyday life in southern Lapland. The question is whether we think it is reasonable.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-358	Mr President, I would like to My answer is very simple: we need more police officers. If the bourgeois parties had thought the situation through when they ruled, they would have made sure to educate more. But you trained only 600 — 700 police officers a year, while there were 400 — 500 police officers a year who retired. That's far too small a margin. This government has now doubled police training. From 600 to 700 per year, it is now 1,300 who start their police training this year. We will continue to be at that level. I think we're going to have to get up to 2,000 a year in police training in order to be able to take care of it. We are now expanding the police organization. The target is 10,000 more employees by 2024, and we do so by ensuring that more police officers are trained.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-361	Mr President, I would like to The minister didn't answer if it's okay that it's a police car in all of southern Lapland. That is what the question was about, not the police overall. What happens is that these women don't even dare call because they know that before the police get there they're beaten to death. One of the points of the new police organization was that there would be a greater local police presence – that there would be police throughout the country. Could it not be that everyone else is needed elsewhere and that there is only one car left in southern Lapland? Is the Minister of Justice happy that it looks like it does?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-363	Mr President, I would like to No, and that's exactly why I told you we need more cops. In order to crew a police car around the clock, we need between 15 and 20 police officers. This is something you should know about. What we are doing now is not only investing in education, but also improving the working conditions of police officers and their career prospects, so that we retain more police officers in the corps and can also recruit those who have left the profession. We need more cops.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-367	Mr President, I would like to Two months ago we had a debate in this House on the situation of unaccompanied minors. The Minister for Migration then said that the government's line is a very clear one. The decision is examined on the basis of the age of the child at the time of the decision. Of course, the person who has been rejected must also return, said the Minister for Migration. I can only agree. This is also the basis of regulated immigration. Unfortunately, we can now see that the government has made a 180-degree turn in a short time. We have not only opened ourselves up to arbitrariness, in which one selects a particular group, but also to a very unfair solution, if one considers who is not covered by it – that is, those who have complied with the rules, told the truth or returned to their country of origin after a rejection of the asylum application. My question to the Minister for Migration is whether she still believes that the government's line with regard to unaccompanied minors is very clear.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-370	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Johan Forssell! It is just as you describe: The government's view of the unaccompanied persons and the right of asylum is solid. What the government is now proposing is a temporary regulation, because the government takes responsibility for the long processing times. The government is following reality. I already told you when I took office that we will continue to work hard to shorten the processing times. They're coming down, but they're going too slow. Then this is a very important measure for all those who came before 24 November 2015 and have waited a very long time.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-372	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am not sure I share the view that the government has been consistent here. The fact is that in the past, I think, the Minister for Migration has argued very well that this particular type of arbitrary solution should not be put forward. I am very sorry that this has now become the case. Some get yes and stay; others get no, and they go back. I wish the government could have stuck to Prime Minister Stefan Lövven's words.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-373	Mr President, I would like to On one point, Johan Forssell has misunderstood the proposal, and I have said so earlier this week. This applies to those who arrived in autumn 2015. One cannot come as an unaccompanied minor or young now and claim that it actually came in autumn 2015 and is therefore covered by the proposal put forward by the government. This does not therefore affect the government's view of the right to asylum and how it should be established. In this sense, both I and the government are consistent.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-375	Mr President, I would like to My question also goes to Minister for Migration Heléne Fritzon. Much is happening that is worrying and strange in Swedish migration policy right now. The agreement the other day between the government parties and the Left is one such thing. It risks the legal certainty of asylum seekers and our asylum system. Those who are suspected of having lied about their age can have their case tried and have a good chance of staying in Sweden, while those who were telling the truth and were allowed to leave the country will not be given a door in. My question relates in particular to the legislation signed by the Minister of Defence in December 2016, which gives the asylum seeker the right to choose the gender of his case officer at the Migration Agency and states that this should be met. In what way does the Minister of Migration think this is beneficial to gender equality and is reasonable in the light of existing gender equality policies?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-378	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Christian Holm Barenfeld! The first part dealt essentially with the government's proposal for the unaccompanied. I have explained this in this speaker's seat. The second part refers to the order and routine of the Migration Agency for the talks that are being held with asylum seekers who are coming here. There is scope for taking into account, under special circumstances, the living conditions and experience of women, not least, who come from war-torn zones. If I understand the question correctly, that is what the question is about. This should be used with responsibility, and it is my view that this also happens.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-381	Mr President, I would like to The equal rights and conditions of women and men are an important issue. We have a government that usually calls itself feminist. I haven't quite understood what that means. Thus, in December 2016, the Government and the Minister of Defence signed a law that requires the foreigner to be asked whether he or she prefers a male or female investigator or interpreter before the oral hearing of the Finnish Immigration Service. The foreigner's wishes should be met if possible. How does this safeguard equality?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-383	Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to inform the questioner that feminism is about equal and equal conditions for women and men.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-384	This is also the reason why this provision exists, which the Migration Agency has the possibility to use.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-386	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Mr Ardalan Shekarabi my question. Research and experience show that public confidence in the state authorities is crucial for the authorities to be able to carry out their tasks and, by extension, for our society to function. There must simply be trust. In a report from Statskontoret that came earlier this year, it is noted that the Swedish Government has been characterised by a centralisation trend in recent decades and that this should have had a negative impact on public confidence. How does the Minister of Civil Affairs view these ideas in the light of the government's desire to decide on the relocation of a number of authorities to locations outside Stockholm County?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-389	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Veronica Lindholm, for the important question! In the past, relocations of government agencies and the relocation of government jobs have been about replacement jobs. Some regions have been replaced because of the disappearance of government jobs. That is not really the perspective of the process that we have right now. Our perspective is that we should maintain the legitimacy of the Swedish state and maintain citizens' trust in state authorities throughout our country. We have a violent urbanisation and centralisation behind us, as has happened in recent decades, especially in the last ten years. That is why we need active measures and decisions on the transfer of government, which means that we strengthen the presence of the state and reduce the distance between citizens and public authorities. This is a crucial issue for the legitimacy of the Swedish state, and basically it affects our democratic institutions.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-391	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. As a Westerner, I am delighted that, among other things, the tax office in Lycksele had to stay. I also know that Skellefteå, my hometown, will have an authority for family law and parental support. Perhaps it is also the case that the Migration Agency will have more placements in the north. At least it's a wish.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-392	Mr President, I would like to The decisions relating to localisation are mainly made by the authorities, unless they are active decisions of the government relating to relocation. Basically, it is the authorities that handle the location decisions. Now we are in a phase where the Migration Board is reducing the number of employees. It is a natural consequence of the change in migration policy. And this is basically an important change for Sweden.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-394	Mr President, I would like to It's easy to cut when it comes to cyber security. Unfortunately, in recent years we have seen too many examples of a lack of safety culture in both the private and the public sectors. One of the more prominent cases where there has been a mistake concerns the Swedish Transport Agency, whose then Director General deliberately chose to depart from the legislation in force in connection with the outsourcing of IT operations. Given that the events in the Swedish Transport Agency are in recent memory and that for quite a long time, not least during the previous bourgeois government, there was strong pressure to privatise and to outsource activities, I would like to address a question to Minister of the Interior Morgan Johansson : What does the government intend to do to ensure that there is a proper trial and control before any operation is imposed on other actors?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-396	Mr President, I would like to In the aftermath of the events in the Swedish Transport Agency, the Government has taken a number of measures. Among other things, we come forward with a proposal for a new Swedish Parliament Security Act. It is broader and sharper than the security law currently in force. I think whoever's in charge today is 20 years old. However, we are also looking at the whole situation when authorities are considering outsourcing or privatising parts of their business. We have given a special investigator the task of reviewing the limits of this, and we are also about to create systems to ensure that we can really pull the handbrake. We are currently preparing an amendment to the regulation, which involves a consultation obligation. The authority intending to do this type of outsourcing must consult the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Armed Forces. In addition, the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Security Service are given the right to veto. If the authority receives a no from there, it shall not be allowed to carry out that type of outsourcing.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-399	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. It is certainly a good thing that there is a tightening up of controls in the case of outsourcing. At the same time, cybersecurity is about much more. There is a need to take a variety of measures at the same time. What is the government doing to strengthen cybersecurity in public administration in general?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-400	Mr President, I would like to We adopted a specific cybersecurity action plan. We did that just before the summer. In connection with this, we also went out with a large number of missions to relevant authorities, including MSB, who now have a responsibility to try to raise the level of consciousness overall everywhere. But for this to be done, strong laws are also needed at the bottom. That is why we are proposing, among other things, a better security law and this amendment to the regulation.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-402	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister Heléne Fritzon. If you get a rejection, you have to go home. Otherwise, we don't have an orderly migration. It's the Prime Minister's own or d. They were convicted in Expressen on April 9, this year. This week, the government presented its new migration policy agreement. It means that adults who have no reason for asylum will once again be given the right to remain in Sweden and also be guaranteed a lifetime supply here. In practice, this is a new amnesty, and it is aimed primarily at adult men who have no grounds for protection. A 'no' is no longer a 'no'. I would therefore like to ask the Government if she agrees with the Prime Minister's earlier statement and thus has the view that Sweden can no longer, even with the Government's interpretation, be regarded as having an orderly migration policy.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-406	Mr President, I would like to The Government's proposal provides for a temporary regulation for those who came in autumn 2015, before 24 November, and that has been waiting for 15 months. This meets and therefore meets the concerns we have with long processing times. Otherwise, the fundamental right of asylum remains. I welcome your commitment to protecting the right of asylum, Jonas Millard. It's important. It is important for Sweden, and it will in every way be handled as it is handled today. A yes is a yes, and a no is a no.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-407	Mr President, I would like to Government! That wasn't the answer to my question. The Prime Minister has made it clear before: If you get a rejection, you have to go home. Otherwise, we don't have an orderly migration. This is a reversal of the previous position. One could interpret that – and I believe that many do – just as the government has made a sharp turn in the matter. The government has not reported what this will cost. It has not been reported how many will be covered by this amnesty or how it will be financed. Does the State Council today have any answers to give on these questions?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-409	Mr President, I would like to The government, of course, follows reality in every way. In 2015, 163 000 asylum seekers arrived in Sweden. It has made enormous demands on our entire country – municipalities, county councils, civil society and individuals. That's the background. Normally, we have processing times of three to four months. Now we are heading down to 14 months, but it is far too far from being able to say that we have reasonable processing times. That is the reason for the government's proposal.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-411	Mr President, I would like to I want to ask Morgan Johansson my question. It is now time for children who witness domestic violence to be regarded as victims of crime. In the vast majority of cases, Dad beats up Mom. It is an enormous trauma for children when one associate abuses the other. That is why this is really important and welcome. I hope that we can get that law through as quickly as possible. Linked to the situation of children, there is also the question of how children live in sheltered housing. So it is when they are forced to flee. Not everyone, thank God, is forced to do so, but too many. Many children miss preschool and school due to waiting times, for example, if they change municipality, but also because there is a fear that the father will find the family.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-415	Mr President, I would like to That's right. We are about to move forward with such an initiative precisely with regard to children who witness violence, which means that they also become independent in the judicial process in a different way than they have been in the past. It is an important reform in the field of children's rights. When it comes to sheltered accommodation, I assume that Hillevi Larsson refers to those who are often run by women's shelters, for example. There we have gone in with a very big investment during this term – SEK 100 million per year we have allocated to the women's shelters to carry out this very important business. There has never ever been such a big effort as we have now made. I realise that it may certainly need to be done more, but it is, after all, a very large investment that we have made. In this connection, I would also like to mention a decision we took today, in which we make it easier to put an electronic ankle on those who persecute their former and who have a restraining order. It can also have a bearing on the children we are talking about.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-419	Mr President, I would like to It is very gratifying that the government is paying attention to this, because it is about a lot of people. Every fourth woman is abused at some point in her life by a close man, and one in ten children witness this violence or experience it, I would say, because it is almost as if they themselves are being exposed. I also believe that we can invest more in specific solutions, such as teachers who come to the women's shelter and teach. There are successful examples of this. The important thing is to strengthen the rule of law for children.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-421	Mr President, I would like to We have no differences of opinion on this, but we must continue to ensure that there is a strong basic structure. In addition to the important activities of women's shelters, I would like to highlight the social services and the LVU opportunities available. There must be a strong social service in the municipalities in order to protect these children.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-424	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. I wonder what measures and analyses the Government and Government have done to meet the increased welfare costs if a profit ceiling is introduced in welfare. When are the proposals coming? The background to my question is that in September the government, together with the Left Party, announced that an agreement had been made to halt profits in welfare, a decision based on the criticised Welfare Investigation of Reepalu. Where are the analyses, and when is the proposal coming?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-427	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jenny Petersson, for an important question! We were asked earlier in this House whether the government could guarantee that the billions spent on school are also spent on school activities. My answer to that question is no. We do not currently have a regulatory framework that ensures that the resources are used for what they are intended for by the independent actors in Swedish schools. We cannot therefore monitor the use of resources in public activities financed from tax resources. Is there anything we can be satisfied with? No! We have an obligation to Swedish citizens who pay taxes. That is why we must ensure that we have rules that involve transparency and influence over activities financed by tax funds. We are actively working to develop such proposals. Of course, such proposals will also include analyses on the economic and operational impact of legislative proposals. We have an obligation towards all Swedes to ensure that their tax money is used for what they are intended for and does not leak into profits.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-430	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Ardalan Shekarabi! Unfortunately, the answer was placard politics from the government and the Left Party, which support this. This is not about raising quality standards or overcoming businesses, or for that matter public activities, which are misbehaving in welfare. Had that been the case, the focus would have been entirely on other things, such as quality in the area. Unfortunately, this is not the case, and unfortunately I did not get an answer to my questions.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-433	Mr President, I would like to How did we get here? Here we are trying to introduce rules that actually mean that taxpayers' money is also used for what it is intended for – and that is called placard politics! There is no other Nordic or European country that allows free profit withdrawals from school. Only Sweden is doing this, and it is a shame that we have not yet addressed this issue. We will come back with proposals on this.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-435	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Minister Heléne Fritzon a question. Quick loans are often a breeding ground for people getting stuck in a debt trap that is extremely hard to get out of. The quick loan market has been characterised by excessive loan conditions and aggressive marketing, which is often aimed at those people who are already in a vulnerable economic situation. The measures taken over the years have not been effective enough and have not prevented the development we are now seeing with an increase in the number of debtors due to these expensive and fast loans. Now the government is proposing a number of measures to tackle the problems of short-term loans. My question is: what does the Minister expect these proposals to have in effect?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-439	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johanna Haraldsson, for the question, which is important and urgent for many vulnerable consumers who, one might say, are often forced to take short loans at often small amounts with huge interest rates. The debt grows very fast, and then you end up in a trap. The fact that this is the case shows not least the applications to the Kronofogdet. The proposal in the Council of Law referral that the government just decided to leave involves two important things. One is an interest rate cap that clearly indicates a maximum level. The second is a cost ceiling that regulates the level of the whole package, i.e. interest, fees and reimbursement. This, together with other sub-proposals on marketing and information, we believe will significantly change and improve for consumers.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-442	Mr President, I would like to I think the proposals sound great, and I very much hope that we will get support for them when they come to Parliament. We know that these loans can put people in an extremely difficult situation, and I know that many people wonder why we are not simply banning short-term loans. What is the Minister's answer to that question?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-444	Mr President, I would like to I have also been asked that question, and when you read about the worst examples you almost feel that desire. But there is a need on the market. There is a need to be able to use this in difficult, vulnerable situations. You may have ended up in a private situation – a divorce or other things that happen in life – which means that you actually need to make use of the possibility of a quick loan for a short time. Interest ceilings and cost ceilings now make it reasonable for the consumer.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-446	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson. Last summer, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise carried out a study on crime against entrepreneurs. The group that felt the most vulnerable to crime is farmers and foresters. I have recently spoken to a number of worried and even frightened farmers. A few weeks ago, we saw a farmer, a mink farmer, being the victim of an attack by activists – an attack that even ended up in handcuffs.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-450	Mr President, I would like to Of course, it can never be accepted that such attacks take place. We must ensure that there is fundamental respect for the roles we have. In this case, of course, it is important to ensure that there is good cooperation with the police on the ground so that the police take the reports and this seriously. I am prepared to do what I can in my contacts with the Police Authority in the future to inquire about how common this is and how to respond to this type of actions. It sounds as if these are often crimes that do not have to be completely impossible to clear up, but there may be a fairly good picture of who the perpetrator is. Then we need to investigate these crimes and prosecute those who have committed them, just as we do with all other crimes. However, I think it is very important to look seriously and strictly at this type of crime.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-453	Mr President, I would like to In this last case, we saw that it takes 30 to 40 minutes for the police to get to the scene during the ongoing attacks. That's not good. I have another example. Agriculture is often subject to theft and burglary, but the police do not even come out to the crime scene afterwards to investigate the site. I know we're trying to increase the number of cops, but it has to be faster.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-456	Mr President, I would like to There are no shortcuts in this. We must ensure that police activities are expanded, exactly as has been said. There will be 10,000 more employees in police operations by 2024. The number trained as a police officer doubles from 600 to 700 per year to the 1,300 admitted this year. The time 30 - 40 minutes for the police to get to the place is completely dependent on where you live. Sweden is an elongated country, and sometimes it can take a long time for a car to get from one place to another. It's as simple as that. But there should be more policemen in that regard too.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-459	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi. A large home care company that had agreements with several Stockholm municipalities is suspected of having paid black wages, cheated with time reporting and overcharged. In addition, a former employee tells us that she has worked under slave-like conditions in the company. She didn't get her first day off until after three months. She worked from eight in the morning to nine in the evening, seven days a week, and she didn't get her first salary for six months. Officially, the company had a collective agreement with Kommunal and paid according to the agreement SEK 155 per hour, but in reality she received SEK 80 per hour black. So she had to go to the ATM and take out the difference and give the money back to the company.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-462	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Dibrani, for the question and for the great commitment to welfare issues! The regulation of private operators in the publicly funded welfare of Sweden has been characterised by a naivety on the part of the legislator. There have not been – and there are not – strong enough control mechanisms. Direct criminal actors have been released into public welfare. It is actors who have put in systems to misbehave to make big and fast profits. We can't have this. That is why we are currently working on developing legislation that involves, among other things, a ownership and management review of private operators. In addition, we develop other types of requirements, not least rules on how the resources that companies take part of should be used in the business. It will require regulation to tackle the problems.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-466	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Civil Affairs, for your answer. It is gratifying that we are working on the issues and that something is going to happen that shows that we are taking the issue seriously. It is not just the employees who are affected. There are many serious companies in the industry, and they also have concerns when rogue companies are allowed to ravage freely. Some believe that LOV is the problem. How does the Government view a search of LOV?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-469	Mr President, I would like to We have received a proposal from the Welfare Committee, which was just yelled out by one of the members of Parliament, on the table of the Government, which extends the possibilities for municipalities to exclude rogue actors in the LOV systems. We are working on the proposals, and they are an important part of the change to create order in Swedish welfare.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-470	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address my question to Minister Heléne Fritzon. In Sweden, tenants have relatively strong protection, except when they are at their most vulnerable. I have a background as a lawyer at the Tenant's Association. Among the toughest conversations I've had to make is when I've talked to people whose apartments have burned down. I have to explain that the legislation looks like the tenant has no right to move back, even if the landlord builds up the apartment and the house just as they looked before. I have made a short visit to Parliament. I started in April, and I quit until the end of the year. I have raised a motion on the matter, and I have found it easy to take those talks with you to try to influence in a direction that gives you protection as a tenant. I am curious: how will the question be dealt with by the government, and what will be done when I have finished after the end of the year?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-474	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. When I took office this summer, I was well informed of the background to the matter. I was told that in a letter to the Ministry of Justice, the Tenants' Association requested a change of order. The background is as described, namely that the lease expires if the apartment no longer exists. I agree with the description of the problem in every way. Against this background, I have appointed an investigator to review the tenant's position when an apartment is destroyed. It could be fire or other events. It is about reviewing the conditions for securing the housing social situation for the tenant.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-477	Mr President, I would like to It feels safe and comfortable to hear that the government is working on the issue. It is also worth mentioning that a homeowner or tenant-owner can insure against fire. Tenants' insurance is the legislation. You can't buy it anywhere else. I very much hope that the work is progressing and that we will finally have a security for tenants who are equal to those to whom homeowners and tenant-owners can buy.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-479	Mr President, I would like to The investigator has been given reasonable leniency to make proposals. This may involve the possibility of getting control so that the tenancy agreement is extended in the situation described, or that the property owner is obliged to assign another dwelling so that the tenant does not end up in the vulnerable situation described by the questioner.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-481	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put my question to Minister Shekarabi. Profit in welfare should not be a political conflict issue, but it is, we heard recently in the debate. Sweden is unique in the Western world and in Europe in allowing publicly funded schools to be profit-making. All other European countries agree across party boundaries that this is not okay. Is anyone allowed to run a school? Should there not be a clearer regulatory framework that ensures that independent actors are serious, have a long-term commitment and follow school teams, curriculum, values, gender equality and so on?
i-N4xkmqKBze8sx6XbACwvQX	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Thomas Strand, for the question! I have personally fled a country where gender segregation was applied in the school system and separated girls and boys from preschool and up to university. It is totally unacceptable to me and, I believe, to a very broad majority of our population that we now see this type of element in Swedish school. It is totally unacceptable with this system, and there are many other shortcomings in the school system that are about a naive approach that has meant that everyone should be allowed to carry out school activities and be able to use the resources as they please. No, it is activities that are subject to compulsory schooling. No, it is activities financed by our tax funds. It is not my own money or that of the Members of Parliament, but it is our tax money. Then we shall ensure that the money is used properly, and then the owners must have the right conditions and the right requirements for themselves.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-488	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. We know that a large majority of the Swedish people want to stop the prize hunt in schools. We see that there are serious and responsible principals. It is strange that this becomes an issue in Sweden when there is agreement in other European countries, from the right to the left, that it is not okay that tax funds used for public activities can lead to profit withdrawals.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-491	Mr President, I would like to The problem we have in dealing with this issue right now, because I think everyone sees the shortcomings, is that the bourgeois parties have chosen to lean against the Swedish Democrats since the Swedish Democrats changed foot on the issue in 2015. What we need here is cross-block cooperation to create order and order. The use of taxpayers' money for what they are intended for should not be an issue that separates the left from the right, nor should it be in the case of voters. A clear majority of bourgeois voters, of the moderate voters, want to see limitations on profits in Swedish schools and welfare, and that is healthy, that.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-493	Mr President, I would like to I am not going to say that eight out of ten voters want freedom of choice in their welfare, but I have a question for Minister Shekarabi concerning 140 government jobs that are at risk of being lost in Gävleborg. The Finnish Immigration Service has announced that they intend to leave Gävle and Söderhamn. That would mean for our county, where the labour market is already very hard-pressed, that we would lose 140 valuable, state-owned jobs. The Finnish Immigration Service's proposal for a decision runs counter to what the Government has said earlier in this Chamber, that the Government wants to protect jobs throughout Sweden. My question is simply to the former Gävlebon and current Minister Shekarabi: How do you intend to act to keep 140 valuable government jobs in Gävle and Söderhamn?
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-496	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Beckman! Gävleborg is a county covered by the relocation decisions made by the government. Among other things, we move the ESF Council to Gävle and expand the Swedish Service Centre, and the new authority that will work with work environment issues will be located in Gävle. I think these are important changes. We take advantage of the expertise of the citizens of Gävleborg. As far as the Migration Board's decision is concerned, it is linked to the decisions of this House on migration policy issues. We have acted to reduce the number of asylum seekers in our country. We stand by those decisions. It is an important shift for welfare and for a sustainable refugee and asylum policy. It will also have consequences for the Migration Agency. It's going to need so fewer people working on the refugee reception. It is part of the impact of the rescheduling of migration policy, and I and the government are responsible for those decisions.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-499	Mr President, I would like to I hope that the Government will take note of the letters sent by his party friends from Gävleborg. Let me just note that the Migration Agency says that one should focus on Uppsala, among other things. No harm to Uppsala – it is a fantastic city – but there you have Sweden's lowest unemployment, while Gävle and Gävleborg have received the most refugees in Sweden per capita. It would then be appropriate for the Migration Agency to choose to focus on, for example, Gävle. Every job is important, Mr President.
i-e0e3c1228adf5e2e-502	Mr President, I would like to This government believes in Gävleborg. That is why we are making decisions right now about relocations of authorities to Gävle and Gävleborg. I am also pleased that Arbetsförmedlingen has chosen to expand its operations in Söderhamn. If I remember correctly, it's 50 favors. This is proof that there are fantastic skills in Gävleborg County. The decisions taken by the Migration Agency are the effects of the rescheduling of migration policy, and it is an important rescheduling of migration policy that we are talking about.
