i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-8	Mr President, I would like to Prosperity releases people from the necessity of the economic subordination. One does not become dependent on one's own financial resources to get access to school, health care and care. You do not have to give up much of your own life to take care of relatives who need such services and cannot buy them on the market. Health care, education and care are important for people's opportunities in life. The life spans get smaller when they don't exist. It is not true, as some accident rabbles claim, that tax-funded welfare policies restrict and passivate. The real violation of freedom and the real passivation of freedom is the failure to make choices of one's own, but always subject to an economic necessity or subordinate to the needs of others or to the interests of others. That is why welfare policy is essentially about both equality and freedom. It also highlights the importance of Sweden's municipalities and county councils and the importance of providing them with the opportunity to fulfil their tasks in welfare policy. The resources that we all contribute to common affairs such as school, health care and care should also be used for this. Let us pause for a moment, Mr President, and reflect on the development or marketisation we have seen of our common welfare. When the decision to allow private companies in the welfare sector was taken in the 1990s, the idea was that freedom of choice would increase. By opening up to companies, associations, cooperatives and other forms of actors, the idea was to offer different educational methods in schools and other welfare areas. With several options, citizens would have freedom of choice through access to a variety of activities. Mr President, I would like to This is a very sympathetic idea, but the experiences of recent years show something quite different. Welfare has developed into a market where the citizen has become a customer. Profitfulness and the pursuit of profit have become a driving force. Although in some areas there are examples of many options, the reform has not led to the great diversity of supply that was envisaged when it was introduced. Non-profit actors are largely the same in number as they were at the time of the reform. It is above all private profit-making companies that have grown sharply at the expense of others. Small companies, parent and employee cooperatives and other smaller players are increasingly bought up and taken over by group companies. This leads to a homogeneity in which companies with a certain healthcare or school concept take over more and more parts of their welfare. What the new players offer is often the same services as the municipality. Freedom of choice has therefore come to consist of a choice between different brands rather than a choice of content in service. Mr President, I would like to Even the former bourgeois government already pointed out in the directives for a so-called ownership review investigation that a development towards a few major companies that dominate the market is problematic if it means that diversity and thus freedom of choice are limited. Moderate leader Fredrik Reinfeldt's government realised that continued development towards increasingly profit-oriented players risks leading to an increasing convergence with reduced diversity and reduced freedom of choice for users. For those who truly believe in diversity and real choice, the conclusion should be simple. The development of large, growing groups that subjugate smaller, often non-profit players must be broken. A system in which ideas-based and smaller actors who do not primarily run their business in order to make a profit must be highlighted and given a greater role. The purpose of profit as a driving force simply controls the business wrong. Even British tories, Norwegian H ø yre and the Danish right now use Sweden as a deterrent. Long-term privatisation reforms contribute to the dismantling of quality and equivalence, the declining status of the teaching profession and a free choice of learning outcomes. It is not reasonable today, Mr President, for there to be clearer rules for running a hot dog kiosk than for private providers in the field of social care for children and young people. The privatisation scheme has been set on fire for ideological reasons and for saving requirements. Naivt tries to go a short cut to reduce the cost of welfare. But it's a dangerous combination. Less resources, privatisation and deregulation without control have left a clear mark on Swedish welfare. This line has been represented more by ideological credence as a basis for decision than by fact, experience and reason. Mr President, I would like to If we listen to the Swedish people, we notice that there is a genuine and deep outrage at the shortcomings and profit margins in the welfare of the entire population. Even a majority of bourgeois voters today want to limit the profits of welfare. A bourgeois leadership side has expressed the following: And the outcome has not been so if its authors dreamed of. Instead of passionate people, we've got venture capital companies. In many cases, the spin-offs resulted in millions in private pockets. Scandals have relieved each other. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to Rhetorically one could ask: If it is effective to allow venture capital companies to run schools for profit, why is Sweden alone? Mr President, I would like to When citizens face welfare, they must live in the assurance that it is they and their relatives' best interests that are always at the centre of their lives, not figures in a profit and loss account or the size of their profits. It should be the main mission, no more or less. It is therefore important to regulate how public funds can be used, on the one hand, to provide better conditions for the development of freedom of choice for citizens where they can influence the content of their activities and, on the other hand, to provide the conditions for various alternative activities to participate in. This gives us real diversity while guaranteeing quality and enabling us to develop our activities by maintaining our common resources in the common welfare.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-21	Mr President, I would like to I will prefer the Swedish Democrats' motion 2909 Internationally active municipal companies, which is about how they should be able to act more commercially. Today, all municipal activities are subject to the municipal law principles of cost, location, equality and the general interest. In practice, the same principles also apply to activities carried out by municipally-owned companies, i.e. that they must not be used to distort competition on the Swedish market. Basically, these principles must of course be regarded as having legitimate aims, but in today's globalised world they may, unfortunately, make it more difficult for certain municipal companies to best serve the interests of their respective principals and, by extension, the interests of their citizens. This is particularly clear for companies operating in internationally competitive markets such as the fair and event market, where, among others, publicly owned foreign companies do not always have to act on similar principles but may be less limited in their market positions. This, in turn, can lead to significant competitive disadvantages for the corresponding Swedish companies in terms of attracting international customers, artists, events and the like. To concretise the problem, I can exemplify with a semifictive Swedish municipal fair company that competes with, among other things, a German public company to arrange a prestigious annual fair for certain types of machine equipment. While the German company can open branches in strategically important markets abroad and organise sister fairs and perhaps even directly competing events in Sweden to strengthen its market position, offer attractive economies of scale and undermine resistance, the Swedish company may primarily rely on more customary marketing activities and its good reputation. This is certainly far enough in itself, but it nevertheless means that there are considerably fewer tools available to meet the challenge. In the long run, not only the activities in question but also significant customer data are at risk for connected both public and private activities in other sectors such as transport and hotel and restaurant industries for local residents and Sweden as a whole. Some Swedish actors, who sometimes represent significant public interests, circumvent these limitations by organising themselves as foundations with all that it can mean in the form of reduced public transparency in the business. However, in some areas there are already well-founded exceptions to, for example, the localisation principle on the national market, not least for municipal energy companies. There should therefore be both motivation and opportunity to try to make it easier for municipal companies that are exposed to international competition to assert themselves on the market by allowing them to make positions and decisions that are even more marketable. The current operating conditions should therefore be reviewed and proposals for the necessary measures and regulatory changes examined to be presented at the latest during the next Parliamentary Session. I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 2.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-30	Mr President, I would like to Today we are discussing municipal issues. It is a fairly broad area, where there are many exercises in many subject areas. What has taken up the debate in the last few weeks and which is also the focus of the coming weeks is the study that Ilmar Reepalu has presented on how to look at private companies that are making huge profits in their welfare. Here the government and the government's cooperation parties have been clear. The main principle should reasonably be that what we collectively give up to common resources and concerns should also be used to do so. A number of years ago, the Swedish Democrats had a similar view. But during the trip to Parliament, where you have gained a decisive influence on many issues, you have changed your foot. This can be speculated on. I have my theories. But that's not really the interesting thing. The interesting thing is what's the reason. We are now engaged in a debate in the Chamber of Parliament which is extremely much about principles, about values, about how we view money and market value and, above all, about how we view human dignity. The speech by the Swedish Democrats does not mention this at all. You talk about something else. I would therefore like to know: what is the opinion of the Swedish democrats? Why have you changed feet, and why is it important to make big money from children, young, old and sick, money that can be distributed to venture capital companies in tax havens instead of those resources remaining in welfare so that we can improve the quality and make it better for ordinary people in our country?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-37	Mr President, I would like to The fact that everyone should be forced to do exactly the same thing to exactly the same extent certainly does not make it any better for ordinary people. Families, cohabiting couples, single people, old and young people, city dwellers and rural people all have different conditions. There is therefore also a need for a multiplicity of actors in welfare that can meet their different needs. We have always been clear, from day one, that we want to safeguard the freedom of choice and competition that exists today. There should be clear and high quality requirements for both private and public alternatives. How do we improve the quality of both public and private activities? Is it through quality assurance, controls and monitoring, or is it by banning profitability? This is where the debate should be and nowhere else.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-41	Mr President, I would like to It is important to understand, and in Ilmar Reepalus's investigation it becomes quite clear, that one of the reasons for limiting large payouts is to guarantee diversity. On the one hand, there is the principle that it is not reasonable that the money that you and I and the rest of the citizens of our country give up on our salary, which we devote to common resources, should suddenly be channelled out to large venture capital companies. On the other hand, we allow diversity. We have opened up prosperity because we want diversity. Here we are now seeing a development in which large group companies subdue the small players. It is no longer a choice in which to choose between different services. It is a choice of choice between different brands that provide exactly the same thing. If you limit profits and say that it is clear that there should be profitability but that there should be reasonable profitability, not large surplus profits distributed to large venture capital companies, you can also guarantee diversity. The system we have today is killing diversity. We are moving towards a few players that dominate the entire market. At the same time, the question remains that the Swedish Democrats do not answer. The other day Attendo reported a profit of SEK 649 million. This is a doubling compared to 2015. They distribute SEK 200 million to their owners. Five executives in Group Management have seen the value of their shares increase by SEK 1 billion in one year. I would like the Swedish Democrats to actually answer the question. Why is it better that Attendo gets that money than that they stay in welfare and go to the old, to the sick and to our children and young people?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-50	Mr President, I would like to There are no significant differences between private and public activities. There's nothing that's been able to prove it. There are currently about 15 000 private performers, and 400 000 Swedes have voluntarily chosen them. You want to remove that freedom of choice, I suppose. It is interesting that Niklas Karlsson takes up Ilmar Reepalus's investigation. It is the same investigation that three different researchers, whose analyses a government investigation is based on, saw the conclusions in. Has it ever happened before in Swedish politics? At least I can't remember it. Even the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has sawed the investigation. As if that were not enough, the nail in the coffin should have arrived yesterday, when the Swedish National Audit Office sawed the investigation along with the ankle bumps. I think that this issue is over-played, and I hope that in future we can focus on how we want to improve public activities as well as private ones. That is where the debate should take place and nowhere else.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-55	Mr President, I would like to Swedish welfare is an extremely important part of our democratic society. It has guaranteed opportunities for hundreds of thousands of people through an equal school, and it has seen the most vulnerable in our society through care and care. It means that what is commonly called the American dream, that everyone should have the same chance to realize their dreams and goals, is actually reality in our country. Our welfare system is one of the best Sweden has. Perhaps that is precisely why the issue of welfare gains is so important, both for many politicians and for the people of our country. There are strong feelings. There are many of us who look with frustration at today's system and the risks it actually entails. I still have a clear memory picture of 2013. It was the year when we saw examples of how some of our welfare, our children's schooling, was suddenly out of play through the famous JB bankruptcy. Now, four years later, we all stand here discussing the same issue, but with one important difference: we have a government that has dared to address the issue and to set up a study with clear directives on how financing of private welfare services can be designed to ensure equivalence, quality, social efficiency, needs management and transparency. Not too long ago, it could be thought that there was a broader consensus in this House that there were indeed problems with the current system. Prior to the election, for example, both Jan Björklund and then Minister of Finance Anders Borg expressed that it was problematic with venture capital companies in the welfare sector because they are too short-term. It is an attitude that is spoken of more quietly today, but which both I and the Green Party think is highly relevant. The development that has now taken place, in which venture capital companies' large companies in the welfare sector have gradually increased their share of the market, is part of the picture of problems underlying the investigation which has now submitted its proposals and which has been referred back. Mr President, I would like to For the Green Party, it is important that we continue to protect our welfare. We want our children to have a high-quality education, and we want our elderly and most vulnerable to receive as good care and care as they can ever be. If we continue to allow our common funds to be spent on high profits and disappear into tax havens, then I am not only afraid that our welfare will be worse, but also that it risks damaging confidence in our common. At the same time, it is clear to the Green Party that not all people are exactly the same. We have different preferences that need to be acknowledged through a variety of performers and actors. The Green Party believes, above all, in the power of intelligent activities – where there is an idea of how something can be done in the best way and a driving force to do it for the benefit of the individual. We will continue to protect that. On the contrary, continued development towards ever larger players with a profit as a primary objective risks leading to ever greater uniformity, which does not increase diversity. In order to achieve real diversity for citizens, it is important to try to reverse this trend with large players and instead to stimulate a system in which ideas-based and smaller players, who do not primarily pursue their business for profit, have a greater role to play. Mr President, I would like to We are here today with a proposal for an announcement to the government concerning the performance of various services in the field of welfare. Together with the Social Democrats and the Left Party, the Green Party has written a reservation describing our position on the basis of what is now being proposed by the bourgeois parties. The fact that the bourgeois now want to make an announcement that the government should return as soon as possible with proposals on how to work to increase diversity in the welfare sector becomes rather strange when the consultation time for the inquiry into the regulation of the sector is still ongoing and parts of the investigation have not even been reported. The important thing is, of course, to ensure the quality of activities financed from public funds. But that said, welfare must not be treated like any market. We are not consumers in relation to welfare; we are citizens. When we see that developments are moving in a different direction from what we intended, we politicians must also be prepared to act. I hope that we can get support in this House.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-66	Mr President, I would like to In the 2014 election campaign, the Left Party clearly put the issue of welfare gains on the political agenda. And after the 2014 election, the Left Party and the government made a profit agreement, where we agreed that the profit hunt as an incentive in welfare should be removed. We also agreed to ensure that public funds are used for the very activities for which they are intended and that any surpluses should, as a general rule, be returned to the activities where they have arisen. Part of the agreement was that an investigation should be set up, and on 5 March 2015 Ilmar Reepalu was appointed as the main investigator for the Welfare Investigation, who left the interim report Order and clear up the welfare. It is a heavy and solid investigation on 861 pages that Reepalu has put on the government table. The study shows that the return of welfare companies in relation to operating capital in the years 2005 to 2013 amounted to 47 per cent. The survey also shows that companies make over-profits, i.e. profits that exceed the remuneration that the market can consider reasonable. There are companies that make very large profits and thus have a very high return on capital. According to the report, SEK 6 billion went to over-profits in 2014. That would be enough for 10,000 new teachers. The study also notes that welfare has special characteristics that prevent it from functioning as ordinary markets, where the customer or user pays, but can be considered quasi-markets. The market mechanisms that operate in ordinary markets and then lead to increased efficiency do not work in the same way when they arise in welfare. It is an investigation that states that there is only one way to stop the prize hunt, and that is not through quality criteria. The study considers that provision should be made for public funds intended for welfare activities to be used mainly for the activities for which they are intended. The study has also considered alternatives to such regulation, including setting more detailed quality requirements in procurements and setting staffing requirements on welfare service providers. However, it is noted that the problems and risks identified in the current system cannot be solved by setting better quality requirements or developing their follow-up. Rather, it can be said that this would result in fewer and large players capable of coping with complex procurement processes while at the same time eliminating smaller players. At the same time, the public control system will be huge. Today's announcement by the bourgeois parties and the racist party is about wanting to see a variety of actors. This is something that Reepalus's investigation has looked at, and it is noted that the investigation believes that continued development towards larger, profit-oriented actors risks leading to more uniformity and reduced diversity for users. That is why we need to change the legislation so that we have a variety of actors who have the main focus of activity, not the profits. We want to see actors who want to run activities at school so that children can learn more, who want to run care for the elderly in order for the elderly to have a good old age and who want to run healthcare for the sick to get care as needed – not actors who want to make huge profits. In order to stop the prize hunt as an incentive, we need to regulate the profits so that we get a well-being with different actors – public, non-profit and private – that all have the business in focus, not the win hunt. The interest in profit in welfare has been a bourgeois experimental workshop with great complications. School results have fallen, old ones have been left alone at night, and preschool children have been given crisp bread and water for breakfast. We cannot allow Swedish welfare to be a place where bourgeois economists and politicians can test whether their ideology works – if you can make a market out of just anything. Nor do the voters of the bourgeois parties agree with their parties about the profits of welfare. When the SOM Institute investigated the matter, it was concluded that 62 percent believe that profit distribution should not be allowed while less than 16 percent think it is a bad proposal. Among the sympathizers of all parties there is a clear excess because it is a good suggestion not to allow profit distribution. Among the sympathizers of the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, 60% are in favour of regulating profits. Among the sympathizers of the Center Party and Moderates, it is just over 50 percent, and 48 percent of Liberals' sympathizers think the proposal is good, while only 27 percent think it is bad. What is the result of profit? In healthcare, the very purpose of care is simply undermined when the focus is on market thinking and profit. In the Health Act, it says this:... respect for the equal value of all people and for the dignity of the individual. The person with the greatest need for healthcare should be given priority to care. ..................................................... Reepalus's investigation concludes that the Health Care Act, the School Act and other laws on our common welfare are at risk of conflict with the interest in profit. The law of choice means that health care companies are allowed to decide where to establish themselves, and as long as most of them are driven by profit, they do so mainly where the population base is as large as possible and public health good, because then profitability can also be as high as possible. Since the entry into force of LOV, most of the new private health centres have been established in the metropolitan regions. Those who already lived near a health centre have now received two health centers less than five minutes away. On the other hand, others have gone further to the nearest health center. The law of freedom of choice is obviously not for them. The Swedish National Audit Office shows that the population of 196 areas with a total of 260 000 inhabitants has been impaired in geographical accessibility. Above all, however, we can see that resources have gone from areas where income is normally lower and care needs greater to private companies in more prosperous areas. The public, which, unlike the private companies, is obliged to provide care to all, may continue to try to provide as good a health care as possible where the sickest patients are but with less money than before. Health care does not have unlimited resources, either financial or personal. If we are to be able to offer everyone effective and equal health care, those who work in health care must be allowed to engage in health care, not economics. Care must be provided with the necessary resources. And those resources must go to the patients who need them most, not to the companies that have the healthiest customers. This is a prerequisite for making medical assessments and carrying out a good public health policy, not for the interest in profit to govern Swedish healthcare. What costs most in welfare activities are often staff. Therefore, it is no wonder that it is precisely there that companies usually save in order to make profits. For example, private elderly care has 10 per cent fewer staff than municipal staff. Private upper secondary schools have 17 per cent lower teacher density than municipal schools. There will be less time for the older and less time for the students. It also leads to lower wages and less educated staff. Lower staff density also increases the stress on employees. In addition, there have been fewer full-time jobs and fewer permanent jobs in the private sector. Surveys among the members of Kommunal show that among those who have worked both in private and in public elderly care, about twice as many preferred the terms of the public over the private. With 10 new welfare billions to municipalities and county councils, we can employ more people in health care and care. More employees are A and O for quality improvements. One big problem has been that many educated teachers and social security secretaries have left their jobs because they have not considered themselves able to do a good job with today's working conditions. With more employees, working conditions will improve. Continuity is crucial for quality. That is why secure full-time jobs are better than what we are seeing today, above all, in the private sector, with more part-time work, more certain periods, lower levels of education, fewer employees and lower wages. It is something that also leads to a deterioration in quality. In order to solve the enormous recruitment needs of welfare in the coming decades, we need to raise the salaries of nurses and other occupational groups. However, pay is not the only factor that determines whether you are happy at work. At least as important is that you feel proud of your work. Anyone who hooks under an unreasonable workload does not go home from work filled with professional pride. Therefore, it is also important for the staff to end the prize hunt. But the resistance to Left Party politics is harsh. The profit lobby, with its billions in the cash box, is now making every effort to spin up the bourgeoisie and racists to get them to represent their profit interests. You start big-style campaigns and pump in money to protect your beloved profits. They fight with beaks, claws and millions of chandeliers to defend free drawing rights on public funds. If you go into the Swedish Enterprise's site, you are currently being given an instruction for those who want to leave a so-called spontaneous consultation where about the profit limits. That's how capitalism works. As SVT News revealed yesterday, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise is also not accurate in terms of how much a company's profits would be limited. Simply using alternative facts, we use them to pursue our arguments. The vast majority of us in Sweden do not think that tax-funded welfare should be a water hole for unlimited private profit. This is essentially linked to a more or less intuitive understanding that this is the core of social well-being – one should avoid being a consumer and raised to the citizen once the needs are reminded. When we are consumers and enter a travel agency, we know that it is not the one with the greatest need for a sun holiday that is given priority over everyone. There are no provisions in the restaurant industry to promote equality in living conditions. Nor are there any laws and expectations that require the clothing store to compensate customers' different conditions for purchasing and carrying the products in their range or sales advice. We already know what happens when the profit motive is released into welfare. The commercial companies find ways to make money. That's their job. In the market environment that tax-funded welfare offers, this can mean that schools give unwarranted high ratings to strengthen their competitiveness, that health centres are established where patients are healthier or that money intended for vulnerable children in HVB homes is channelled into luxury cars for enterprising entrepreneurs. The idea that these drivers should be tamed by diffuse quality requirements combined with bureaucratic control mechanisms, the size and costs of which are unprecise, is at best naive. What lobbyists are fighting for in practice is a systematic undermining of the civic relationship with welfare. Being a citizen in relation to welfare means that we strive to offer each other the best we as a society can organise. It is not easy, and it will never be trouble-free. But that is something other than being a consumer. It is a core issue worth fighting for. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-95	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. I will also attach a sigh to Håkan Svenneling's left-wing speech. There is much to be said about it, but I will leave it to my colleagues to talk about it later. It is almost impossible to discuss municipal issues without first talking about the financial situation of the municipalities. As I have said many times, the situation is worrying. The government gives a rather glossy and irresponsible picture of the situation in the local government sector without mentioning all the challenges and problems that SKL and we in the opposition, not to mention various experts, have warned against. In addition, the Government receives criticism for irresponsible policies from both the Swedish Financial Control Agency and the Swedish National Audit Office, both of which believe that, in the midst of a strong boom, significant surpluses in the budget should be reported instead of borrowing for expenses. We received a reminder of this in the Finance Committee today, when we had two interest rate experts who pointed out the same thing: we have no tools in our toolbox if we go into worse times. Government policy is hitting the local government sector hard. Some examples that I have noted earlier are the still large unpaid debt that the Migration Agency has to the municipalities, the Migration Agency's refusal to release asylum housing apartments to the municipalities so that they can use them for new arrivals who have been granted a residence permit and the severe deterioration of state assistance payments, which pass on costs to the municipalities for extended home care and housing support. But the most serious thing is actually the weak employment policy. This is the one that risks hitting the finances of municipalities hardest on the day of the recession. The government's response to all the warning signals from the municipalities is the same as Håkan Svenneling also pointed out, namely that the municipalities have actually added 10 billion extra. Now we have heard this for almost a year in response to all the problems that exist in all areas of our society. All the government ministers have a mantra: we have added 10 billion! And that's why you think everything's solved. This money has already run out several times over. As you know, the Moderates invest considerably more in the municipal sector than the government – both this year and the next three years – almost 60 extra billion compared to the government's 40. Nevertheless, we report a budget of surpluses. In a report last summer, Sweden's Municipalities and Landsting reported that during the reign of the Alliance there was actually a balance between tax revenue and expenditure for the local government sector and that the local government sector also reported stable surpluses, even during the crisis years. But in the years before the Alliance's entry, there was a deficit in the local government sector. This is also the case this year and the coming years. Expenditure now exceeds tax revenue. In the long run, it is not possible to manage the finances of municipalities only through increased state subsidies. The state grants can be a help in extra difficult situations or when we from the parliament and government want to invest extra in some area. But the basis for a strong municipal economy is that we get more companies and more jobs in the private sector, because it is these tax funds that create all the resources for welfare and other municipal activities. The fact that the government is now pursuing a policy that discourages more companies and more jobs is indeed serious. The effects of the government's anti-job policy are currently being obscured by a strong global economic climate, which means that unemployment is still falling slightly. But with a wiser policy, Sweden could have taken much more advantage of the economic upturn, gained many more in work and at the same time strengthened the economy of the com munities properly. Instead, the government is now setting up an embarrassingly high unemployment rate in the next recession. It will hit the municipal welfare very hard. In its reports, SKL warns of increasing imbalances. It warns of the need for large tax increases in both municipalities and county councils. This is an increase in the reception of refugees. This is a demographic change – we have a larger proportion of older people and children in school age. SKL also points out that both increases in ambition and deficiencies in efficiency in municipalities have had an impact on development since 2014. Another source of concern is the tax forecasts. SKL recently warned that there would be lower tax revenues both this year and the coming years than previous forecasts have shown. The year 2017 is described by SKL as a final boom year for the Swedish economy – then it folds downwards. We don't know if that's the case, but there's a lot of evidence to suggest it. This, combined with rising costs, is worrying. Unfortunately, the government's policy allows the decline to be accelerated because entrepreneurship and work are taxed much harder. It usually leads to lower activity in the economy. The government is actually playing Russian roulette with Swedish welfare today. Mr President, I would like to Some time ago, I attended a seminar at the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise where the future financing needs of municipalities and county councils were discussed. As both the proportion of young people and the proportion of older people increases in the future, while we are going to deal with large-scale migration, society's costs for welfare will increase. If we do nothing about it, massive tax increases will be the only solution. That is not a good idea in a country that already has among the world's highest treasures. In addition, we know that the municipal tax is particularly hard on those with lower incomes. A report was presented at the seminar which showed that there are great opportunities for efficiency improvements in municipal welfare services and in health care. For example, if all municipalities were to perform as well as the best, much of the threatening tax increases would be avoided. If you do the same in health care, you have a similar effect. In addition, if an annual productivity growth rate of half a percentage point could be achieved, future welfare could be financed without tax increases. In this connection, I would like to draw attention to the motion by my Moderate colleague, Jörgen Andersson. He proposes to investigate and analyse systems for increased productivity and efficiency in the welfare sector. It is basically a very wise proposal. A serious threat to efficiency and productivity growth is the threatening regulation of profits in welfare companies. It would directly discourage efficiency and innovation in welfare, reduce competition and, in the long term, lead to higher taxes. Instead, we should actively promote, from the political point of view, the emergence of alternatives and diversity in welfare. It contributes to improved quality and resource use. Mr President, I would like to Sweden must have a secure welfare where people are put before the systems. Everyone should have access to a jointly funded high-quality well-being – we agree on that. One seventh of the welfare services are currently provided by private providers. Many are very pleased with these services. You can't believe that when you hear the debate here, but that's actually the case. There are many examples of how welfare activities run by private performers are at the top of quality comparisons as well as in terms of customer satisfaction and employee satisfaction and influence. As I said, freedom of choice and diversity are valued elements of welfare. However, clear rules and follow-up are needed to ensure the quality of operations. We can agree that this has not always worked as it should over the years, and that is entirely independent of government. Sometimes it has even worked really badly – we also admit that on behalf of the Alliance. But that is no reason to make it more difficult for the vast majority of well-managed welfare companies and to counteract diversity. That is why the committee now wants to emphasise that the government should work to ensure that all activities both public and private are conducted with clear criteria for what should apply and with continuous follow-up. Obviously, well-managed activities should not be hindered or banned. In March 2016, the Riksdag issued an announcement to the Government calling for clearer ambitions to develop freedom of choice in schools, health care and care for the elderly. The Committee on Finance notes that the government has not yet returned to Parliament on this issue. The Committee on Finance is therefore now again proposing that the Riksdag, in an announcement, should invite the Government to come back with proposals on how it intends to work to increase diversity in the welfare sector. It is a key issue for developing the welfare of the future. Mr President, I would like to Finally, let me briefly touch on another issue in this report. We know that it is private companies and their employees who pay with their taxes all the activities and all the employees of welfare. The only way for a municipality to create more resources is to increase its revenue or to use its resources more efficiently. Prioritising more strongly in what you spend your tax money on is crucial to a municipality's development. But it is also essential to safeguard a good business environment. An important issue for the business environment is the relationship between the municipality and the companies. Here, the municipal administration of fees for the exercise of public authority, controls and supervision plays a major role. For example, the amount of fees varies considerably between municipalities. When the exercise of public authority in the form of, for example, food inspections or environmental controls are financed in their entirety with fees, there is no incentive for the municipality to streamline its activities. There will also be an obvious risk of unnecessary supervisory visits being made precisely to raise money. For small traders this can be very costly. At the same time, there is no legal regulation that says that the municipality must carry out supervisory visits in order to charge a supervisory fee. In some cases, municipalities have charged for supervision activities without having made any visits to a trader at all. This is often perceived as unfair. The problem of unfair supervisory fees must be addressed by the government. This is something that I myself have pointed out in several parliamentary movements. The mission that the Swedish Food Safety Agency and Statskontoret have been given to look at the issue of food control has a good focus: to increase the legitimacy of the fees and reduce the fee differences between municipalities. That's good. However, other charges other than those relating to food control are not included in the mission at all. Controls and charges must be based on reasonableness and a holistic approach. This also applies to all types of supervision, including those carried out by other authorities or by the County Administrative Board. The government should take a holistic approach to this issue. I think we should be able to agree on this across party boundaries.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-117	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates have made themselves the political wing of the profit lobby. It unbridledly defends unlimited profits and has for a long time been turning a blind eye and stalling with changes in the system. In opposition, it has rather gone over to floskelbingo without concrete proposals for how the pursuit of profit as an incentive should actually be stopped and disappear from welfare. Since the New Year, we have new rules in the Riksdag for how much gifts you receive can be worth – and you should register them. Despite moderate opposition, we also have several laws on how parties should receive funding, in addition to the state party support, which is about to be implemented. There are deep relationships between the Moderates and the profit lobby. It has been about other things than gifts and funding. Rather, it has been the swing doors that exist between moderate party missions and jobs in welfare companies. The most famous is of course Filippa Reinfeldt, who went straight from politics into the healthcare company Aleris. Members of Parliament register their holdings in the Riksdag's register and database of financial interests. Jan Ericson is one of the members of Parliament who have shares in Investor, which is one of the major companies and which owns the company Aleris, to which Filippa Reinfeldt went. My question to Jan Ericson is: Why do the Moderates love the profit lobby so much? Is it because of the value of own shareholdings?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-122	Mr President, I would like to I am not surprised by the rhetoric of Håkan Svenneling, because that is the rhetoric that the Left Party usually has. It's getting a little messy. It is difficult to deal with the substance of the matter. The fact that Håkan Svenneling goes after my personal shareholdings feels a little low in this context, I think. I can comfort Håkan Svenneling that I have sold my shares in that company. I do a lot of stock deals. After working 20 years in a bank, I think it's a pretty funny hobby. But I don't think it controls my political decisions if I hold 100 or 200 shares in Investor. It's a bit of a mess. In terms of moving from politics to industry back and forth, I think it is fundamentally positive. We see in the case of left-wing parties who leave their political missions that they have a preference for living on the taxpayers instead and taking out income guarantees for decades after decade. The fact that moderate politicians go into business and earn their own income instead of living on the taxpayers is, I think, fundamentally positive.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-124	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that I'm a little surprised why Jan Ericson doesn't explain why there are so close ties between the profit lobby and the Moderates. Why is it so clear that you have swing doors and create the opportunity to conduct a policy such as moderate county councillors, MPs or where you are and the next moment are offered jobs in one of the companies that make big profits in welfare? It becomes quite obvious that the Moderates are unable to hold the pole against the profit lobby. You can simply write down from the profit lobby what the Moderates are going to push for politics and move it forward. It will also be clear that one can complain about the current state of welfare, just as Jan Ericson did in his speech. But you never come up with concrete proposals on how to deal with it. Instead, they land in various types of quasi-discuss where they say that they should have follow-ups of municipal systems. At the same time, there are complaints that municipal bureaucracy is pushing down businesses in the food sector and in other sectors. What's it supposed to be like? How do the Moderates want to put an end to the welfare gains? How can the Moderates create their own policy independent of the big lobby interests of the profit lobby?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-128	Mr President, I would like to I said very clearly in my speech that our aim is to have a clear regulatory framework, a clear follow-up and a clear quality control. That's where the key is that you have good welfare even when it's done by private actors. I think we have been rather poor in the control of both public and private activities. That is why we have such major shortcomings in public activity. There are very large deficiencies in many places. It is a little strange that the Left Party only sees the shortcomings that may exist in individual private welfare companies. But there is never any mention of the shortcomings of the other activities. I think that's pretty serious. I also think it is a bit silly to talk about profit lobby. My experience is that the mystery and cheating are at least as widespread in the public sector. I can only take Gothenburg as an example. They've had left-wing rule there for decades. There is so much mystery, so many people who shoes themselves and who use municipal companies for their own purposes and interests that it overshadows everything else in this discussion altogether. We must have good control of our activities. This applies to both the public and the private, both in terms of quality and how we spend our money. It's absolutely crucial. But to claim that the Moderates would be some kind of lobbyists or have links with lobbyists is not true. We listen to everyone and accept good arguments. We are convinced that options and diversity in welfare are good both for our citizens and for society and for tax revenues. That's what drives us. That's what makes us think it's so important.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-133	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by highlighting a quote: I believe that it should not be venture capital companies in the current way in the future. ..................................................... No, it is not the Left Party, the Social Democrats or the Green Party that is behind that quotation. It is Jan's party partner and former Minister of Finance Anders Borg. He saw, like large parts of the Swedish people, and a broad group in the Swedish parliament, what problems the market view of our welfare brought. Schools went bankrupt and tax money left the country and ended up in tax havens. The Green Party, the Social Democrats and the Left Party agree that there is a problem when we have systems that allow tax money allocated to welfare – for our children's, yours and my children's schooling – to disappear into excess profits. At least that insight was temporarily present in the Moderates. However, considering how they nowadays turn their coats to the wind and do not stick to agreements, it may not be surprising that they have lost that insight now. From the Moderates there is a lot of talk about quality and that it is not ownership that matters. We all agree that quality is a priority in this House. But to what extent our common funds sent abroad to tax havens benefit quality, the Moderates speak silently about that. Maybe it's not so strange when it's a pretty big black logical sinkhole. I would now like an answer from Jan Ericson and the Moderates: Was Anders Borg wrong?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-138	Mr President, I would like to Anders Borg was not wrong in his assessment that it is wrong if the size of venture capital companies knocks out smaller welfare companies. It is also wrong if you do not manage your activities. What is serious in this discussion is that you pull all the downhills over a comb. I usually take as an example our small health centre at home in Sätila. It was threatened with closure because our region was simply unable to man it. They had relay doctors who came in strong power, and there were constant staff changes. As a result, people left the health center and listed themselves in health centers in other locations a mile or two away. In the end, it was threatened with closure. Then there was a suggestion that one could put it on a private operator instead. It turned out to be the actor who ran a health centre in the neighbouring town with very good results. That's where many of the patients from Sätila had listed themselves because they didn't want to stay in Sätila. Now it took over Sätila as well. Today they have a firm staffing and a well-functioning operation. If we hadn't had a private health care company that had been involved in the health care center, we wouldn't have had a health center left. It's not a city health center, it's in a small town in the country. That's what it looks like. At least that's what drives me on these issues. I see how it works. I see the point and the value. Our own childcare at home was done in our parent cooperative. I was on the board of directors myself. I was in charge of the economy. We had an incredibly good business at a lower cost than the municipality had, with much higher quality, higher staff density and so on. These are the values we see in that there are alternatives in welfare. This is not about the debate about venture capital companies.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-143	Mr President, I would like to I don't really know how to interpret Jan Ericson's answer. It is first positive that the recognition remains that it is good to prevent profits from disappearing from welfare. But as soon as it was said, Jan Ericson spoke a little anecdotally about good examples. These are such good examples that I believe no one in this House opposes should continue to exist. Instead, we are very clear that we want to safeguard diversity. We want to ensure that non-profit actors such as parent cooperatives can remain and operate. But that is not the development we are now seeing. The development we see is that large companies with a profit interest are first those that are spreading at the expense of the small and non-profit businesses. That is the main problem. We in the Green Party want to seek broad solutions in Swedish politics. I would like to take this opportunity to ask a supplementary question about something that Jan Ericson did not mention in his reply. What do the Moderates intend to do to ensure that the money devoted to welfare also stays there?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-146	Mr President, I would like to The last question I can take right away. If we have a good management control both when we are established and through a follow-up during the time when we run the business, we have a control of the quality. That's what's important. What do we get out of the money at the other end? If a never so aggressive venture capital company runs a better school than the municipality for less money and with better school results and at the same time delivers a profit, which is hopefully also taxed in Sweden, what is the problem with that? That can't be the problem. The problem is when you feel that a company collects large profits but does not deliver what you should. That's when people get upset. That's what we're going to attack. That is where the focus must be, and that is what is at the heart of the discussion. Then I said in my speech that it has not always worked as it should over the years, regardless of government. Sometimes it has even worked really badly. I said that in my speech, and that is how it is. There are drifts and things that haven't worked. That's what we're gonna put the gunpowder into doing something about. That is what is important and our mission to do. Like I said, it must not lead to any kind of generalization. In fact, not all small limited companies operating in Sweden are owned by venture capital companies. It is small private limited companies with very committed people trying to do something good. Don't throw them out with the bath water!
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-150	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party and the Left Party have rightly asked a number of questions, and I will try to repeat them with my experience and with my words. The speeches that we hear from the Moderates and Jan Ericson breathe some kind of dystopian future picture of misery and anxiety and that we play Russian roulette with Swedish welfare. And the answer to this is that we must focus on the financial situation of the municipalities and that it is basically about the lack of efficiency in our Swedish county councils and municipalities. Mr President, I would like to Jan Ericson has previously made himself known in these debates to want to consult in Sweden's municipalities and county councils with red pen and tell them how they could save money and become more effective. In one of the debates he talked about a smoke machine in Landskrona for 200 000 SEK. So it should be set in relation to the 649 million that Attendo picks out in winnings. There are many smoke machines that Jan Ericson will find in Swedish municipalities and county councils to get the money together. The whole of Jan Ericson's speech is about sifting mosquitoes and swallowing camels. Not in a word does he mention the pursuit of profit. Not in a word does he talk about Attendos SEK 649 million in profit, that they now pay 200 million to the shareholders and that the five managers in the company see their value of their shares increase by 1 billion. That fog machine that Jan Ericson has previously talked about is somehow also the symbol of his own speech. He puts out fog curtains to shift the focus away from what is important in the debate. I would like to ask the same question that the Left Party and the Green Party have previously asked: why is it okay that the big companies earn a lot of money on welfare instead of the resources staying exactly where they are supposed to be, so that we get better care, better care and a better school for our children and young people? Answer that, Jan Ericson!
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-156	Mr President, I would like to It is nice that Niklas Karlsson has paid attention to my fleeting offer here, and I stand by it. Give me any city's budget and a red pen, and I'll get you some money! It's no problem. All municipalities spend money on things that are not necessary and should instead be able to be used in the central welfare areas. No one has so far been able to prove me wrong. I do not like to comment on the profits and possible dividends of an individual limited liability company, and I do not know what it looks like in Attendos's financial statements. But we can ignore that. If a company were to make a big profit based on tax revenue, which is not entirely certain in this company's case – it carries out a little different types of business, as I know, but Niklas Karlsson may have better control of it – in what way does it affect the municipality if at the same time it has delivered as good education, healthcare or care for the elderly as the municipal business and got as much paid per student or patient as the municipal business? Can Niklas Karlsson tell us how these profits have affected municipalities?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-158	Mr President, I would like to The answers we hear from Jan Ericson are probably the ones we can expect. Unfortunately, these are not the answers that the citizens of Sweden deserve. Maybe we can get another chance to get answers from Jan Ericson, because he has one line left. The interesting thing is, and it should be said to Jan Ericson's credit, that he is still prepared to offer his services with the red pen. Then I would urge Jan Ericson to start with Landskrona, which he has talked about in the past. This time it is not the purchase of a smoke machine but a large vole, a bird cage, that the moderate councillor has pushed through to air his own birds. Call your party partner, and start there! Nevertheless, I would like to say to Jan Ericson and the Moderates that in the past, the moderate and bourgeois government has seen with concern the declining diversity of welfare, not only in school but also in health care and care. It chose to set up an ownership review investigation to ensure diversity. The concentration in the welfare market increased. Few companies subsided other companies. Freedom of choice has been reduced because the choice now stands between different brands and is not a choice of service. Jan Ericson and the Moderates don't talk about this today. They drive on with their smoke machine in the Swedish parliament to lay out fog curtains. Your former representatives in the bourgeois government, Fredrik Reinfeldt and Anders Borg, saw this and wanted to do something about it. It is possible that they had not come to the same conclusion as the current government, but it showed at least that there was room for compromises and settlements in this House. We do not see this from the Moderates and the bourgeoisie today. I want Jan Ericson to respond to this: Why do the moderators of the day and Jan Ericson not want to see what Fredrik Reinfeldt and Anders Borg saw?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-163	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Karlsson is wrong here. That is exactly what we spoke about during the years of the alliance, and that is something on which the Alliance is in complete agreement. That is exactly what led to our reasoning in today's announcement. We must have better control and follow-up and clear criteria for tax-funded welfare activities, and this applies to both public and private activities. We are making this announcement precisely because we see these problems, which we flagged during the time of the Alliance. It is fully in line with our reasoning during the alliance years. We made this announcement in March 2016 and are doing it again today because it is a problem of decreasing diversity, and we want the government to work for greater diversity and choice. But you don't, you do the opposite. You want to reduce and strangle diversity and freedom of choice, just what Niklas Karlsson says me and the Moderates want to do. But it's not like that. We want to increase diversity and freedom of choice. That's the point. Niklas Karlsson still did not answer how Landskrona municipality suffers from a company making profits if it delivers the same or better quality in welfare than the municipality for the same money per patient or pupil. You do the same job as the municipality, but you do it a little cheaper and a little more efficient and can then make a profit. How does this affect the municipality's finances? Since Niklas Karlsson has no further reply, he cannot answer the question, but he could not even have had the floor.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-166	Mr President, I would like to The report does not only include elements of freedom of choice in welfare. It also contains other parts but has hardly been mentioned. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal for a decision to be approved. There is a heading in the report called Public Employers. And there is a snus motion from Rasmus Ling, who wants to ban the municipalities from banning snusping in the workplace. I can sympathise with Ling Rasmus's motion, but I think that municipal self-government is a more important issue. This is up to the local authorities themselves, as the committee has also said. In the case of municipal supervisory fees, there is great dissatisfaction among municipalities' companies that they have to pay supervisory fees without any supervision. Then let me take this opportunity to mention the municipality of Rättvik, which has challenged the authorities in this. The municipality of Rättvik applies something called Growth and Supervision and helps companies to do the right thing from the start. The companies want to do the right thing. The traditional model of whipping and threats of fines does not lead to any good. Through this model, which has begun to spread to other municipalities, Rättvik has had a fantastic collaboration with the business community. The aim of the legislation is to improve health and environmental issues. More municipalities should follow the Rättvik model. Mr President, I would like to In terms of productivity and efficiency of jointly funded welfare, it is important that the Riksdag and the Government do not specialise in municipal contributions. General grants must be made to municipalities, because they are so different in the municipalities. Every municipality has different conditions, and as an old municipal councillor I know how to tear its hair when it comes to specially-destined funds from the state that do not fit in. Measures have already been taken, but then you get more money to do more of something that is already ready. There will be a lot of administration and control. We need to move away from the special-destined state subsidies and provide more general state subsidies. As far as the actors in welfare activities are concerned, a report on municipal issues already appeared last year. The Riksdag then addressed an announcement to the government to return as soon as possible. Now it has been a year and we have not received a report, and the question comes up again. The government refers to the Reepalu investigation. It submitted its interim report to the government in November. It is now out for a referral, and the referral period expires tomorrow. Many have probably read the referrals that have been received, and there are some things to consider. I argue that the investigation is characterised more by ideological and political considerations than by scientific support and stringency. Although the deadline for referrals is only tomorrow, I have read several of the answers, and some have also been recorded in the media yesterday and today. Criticism has been great, and this insight seems to have reached the Government Office. As we were able to read yesterday, the government seems to release the demand for a profit cap in terms of health care and care for the elderly. Perhaps we can find an answer to this today. Today we read big headlines that the Left Party wants to break the budget cooperation. Although the Left Party is probably saying that it is the government that breaks the cooperation and not the Left Party. It will be interesting to follow developments in the coming weeks. I would be pleased if the government parties were to back down on this issue, and I wish that we could back off even more and not throw away the legs of alternative public welfare performers. I understand that the Left Party is disappointed. It is claimed that it is powerful business interests that are trying to lower the proposal in order to earn even more money from welfare. I can respect the views of the Left Party, but I do not understand them. I believe that the Left Party is a little obsessed with the profits of companies and thereby misses the purpose of public activity. The activities that alternative performers deliver are appreciated by those who use it and by the staff who work in it – although we just heard from Håkan Svenneling that this is not the case. But the studies that are being carried out show that. The great thing about freedom of choice in welfare is that if you are not satisfied, you choose another performer. To get satisfied patients, patients or students, the quality must be good and the staff thrive. Otherwise you don't get a good business and nobody wants to be there. Why is the discussion not much more about how to ensure the quality of both public activities and the activities of other providers? Reepalus's proposal is not a limitation of profits in welfare but a threat to freedom of choice, and the Swedish people want freedom of choice. Mr President, I would like to What do the referrals say? The Competition Authority considers that the investigation does not show that there are any over-profits or selection problems in the welfare markets where assignments are awarded after opening up to competition. The Competition Authority therefore considers that the investigation has not shown that there is reason to regulate the benefits in the area of welfare. The Swedish National Audit Office says that the investigation's proposal for profit consolidation in companies in the welfare sector constitutes a major departure from the basic principles that apply to Swedish company law and can be seen as an interference in the principles of commercial law that govern business operations in Sweden. Those who say this are not lobbyists for companies. The Bar Association has a longer text but concludes by emphasising that there is a clear risk that the proposal would conflict with the form of government, the European Convention and the right to free movement in the EU. Mr President, I would like to The combined profits of welfare companies represent a high 0.6 per cent of the total cost of welfare. The operating margin is 6 percent, which is roughly in line with comparable industries. It should be remembered that the government has higher return requirements on the state companies. The operating surplus will cover interest, tax, new investments and much more. The quality of private performers is equally good or better in almost all areas of welfare compared to the public-run operations. I would urge Parliament and the Government not to kill the diversity we are offering today, and I propose that the Government put this proposal far down in a box at the Government Office.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-192	Mr President, I would like to When we debate profits in welfare, this debate points to big companies, companies that run preschools and health centres and other kinds of companies that operate in welfare. But there is also a generation of new companies that do in a different way. They do not have a physical health centre or school; they operate online. In the area of health care, several alternatives have recently emerged. They are called things like kryt.se and mydoctor.se. These companies have an online health centre. Instead of calling the health centre first, waiting for the health centre to call back, make an appointment, go there, sit in the waiting room, see a nurse and then a doctor, and so on, you can connect online, get an appointment within an hour, talk to a doctor, get medication prescribed, and so on. These companies make healthcare more efficient. They make it more accessible and offer greater choice. The proposals contained in the Reepalus investigation not only mean that the companies operating physical health centres and schools cannot remain but also that these new companies will disappear. Instead of acting as S, V and MP to try to stop these companies, we should ensure that they can arrive so that care is digitised. There is an enormous need to digitise healthcare. Referrals faxed! Yeah, you heard me right. I haven't seen a fax in ten years, but in the county council, you fax referrals. It was a news story last year when, for the first time in Sweden's history, a referral was sent digitally. But you are trying to stop the companies that work online and make healthcare more efficient. Instead of working to greatly slow down the positive development with freedom of choice online and in other ways, we should work to give it a boost. Given the effects that the Reepalus investigation would have if it were to be carried out, it is no wonder that so many referrals are critical of it. I have a list here. I'll see how many I can get before we close for today. There is the Medical Association, but also the Bar Association, which my centre-party colleague mentioned earlier and which writes that the proposal is probably contrary to the form of government, the European Convention and the freedom of movement within the EU. It is clever in itself, in a negative way, to punch in all three of these. The Bar Association is therefore one of the bodies with critical views. There is also the Swedish Competition Authority, Umeå University, the Swedish Administrative Court in Stockholm, the Swedish National Agency for Health Care Analysis, the Swedish National Audit Office, the Swedish Rules Council, IFAU, Free School Associations, the Health Care Companies, Coompanion, KFS, Mora Municipality, Trosa Municipality, Mörbylånga Municipality, Stockholm County Council, Falkenberg Municipality and Kils Municipality. Mr President, I would like to I will not let today's negotiations in this House fail by reading the whole list, but I will level out there. I think the message has come to light. Some are actors in the field, and it is clear that they are critical of the closure of their businesses. But there are also a lot of independent authorities who are extremely critical of the Reepalus investigation. Not just put it in a drawer, but put it in the paper recycling or run it in the paper chew! Even if it has 871 pages, you can tear it apart and put it down there-- I think that's the best option. With this, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-204	Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats are committed supporters of municipal self-government. The municipalities look different and should find solutions to municipal problems, especially municipal ones. With this comes not only the right to be able to design their activities in the most appropriate way, but also the responsibility for being able to finance their commitments. This right should, of course, be laid down for municipalities and regions in terms of responsibility as an employer. As the section on public employers is included in what we are debating, I would like to say a few words about it, because I believe many of our future issues are there. The Occupational Safety and Health Act requires the employer to take all necessary measures to prevent workers from being exposed to ill health or accidents. In the area of prevention in particular, public employers should be alert and innovative. In order for the public sector to be able to have sufficient staff in the future, it is necessary to be more attractive than others to attract new staff but also to retain it that has once started in the public sector. Being concerned about the employee through good prevention is a necessary way to attract people to stay. The need for labour in the future is great, and then the public employer must show that it is concerned about its staff and is a good employer. A good employer attracts and retains staff, which will be a prerequisite for us to be able to achieve a good quality of welfare in the future, which is what we are debating today. Sweden should have a secure welfare where people are put before the systems and where everyone has access to a jointly funded welfare of high quality. One seventh of the welfare services are currently provided by private providers. It provides a diversity that contributes to increased quality and improved resource use. Many of the welfare companies are at the forefront with new ways to perform, have a quality that is very good and is popular with the citizen. Sometimes you as a politician get the opportunity to sit down in peace and quiet and talk to people who have started a school, an HVB home or a preschool. What drives them to move from a seemingly secure life of employment to, in many cases, throwing themselves into the conditions of the entrepreneur, where there are no rescue planks if the business does not go together. When the question comes up as to why it is, there is a fairly clear target picture in the person you ask. They believe that they can make the business in a different way that provides better quality and better conditions for the one that the business is for. For their own part, they feel that they have an activity that they believe helps to create a society that is better for the future. It is clear that they have calculated in terms of the economy and found that it is possible to also economically make it go together and work well. My own experience is that when, for example, a free school intends to establish itself in a locality, the other schools in the area will also sharpen up to become the choice of pupils and parents. I think this is an example enough to show that competition creates better quality. A policy for the future would be to give welfare companies the opportunity to grow, develop and take greater responsibility towards the citizen. Trying to limit welfare companies not only stops the development of quality in the area, but would also knock away the bones of many small businesses. Many of these small entrepreneurs are women, and if anything, we should make sure that we support them. We as legislators should focus on the quality of operations and not on whether or not the company can make a profit. Should the proposals in the report on welfare gains become a reality, there is a great risk that small, valued welfare companies may be forced to close down. At the same time, the quality of the activities that manage to continue to operate is not guaranteed. We Christian Democrats believe that the new jobs are mainly created in small businesses. Then we are dependent on people who dare to spend time, energy, commitment and money to create, run and develop businesses. The growth of welfare companies means more jobs, more taxes for the state and fewer people on subsidies. Is this not something that should also be taken into account by the government? The inquiry into profit limitations in welfare has received painful criticism during the consultation round and should never come to Parliament's table. You should throw it in the trash and start a new investigation. The new investigation should be about how we can develop quality in the welfare sector, where both public and private companies have an important role to play. We should increase diversity, and that could be where idea-based organisations could be a major player in the future. The two issues on which the investigation should really focus are: what do we want out of the business, and what does it cost? Who runs the business should be determined by who is able to meet the criteria set. We Christian Democrats support the proposal in the report.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-224	Mr President, I would like to As my colleagues have mentioned, it is gratifying that the Riksdag is on the government to come back with proposals on how to work to increase diversity in the welfare sector. Several players are important, as competition helps both to ensure freedom of choice for citizens and to ensure the development of quality of welfare and innovative ways of working so that our tax resources are used in the best possible way. Tomorrow is the last day to respond to the referral on Ilmar Reepalus's welfare investigation. It is no secret that it is very heavy criticism that comes, not only from the companies that would suffer the consequences, but also from everything from Social Democratic municipal councillors to the Competition Authority, the National Audit Office and the Administrative Court of Appeal in Stockholm. It is not surprising, because the proposals would have far-reaching consequences which would not only hit profit-making companies but also, for example, parents' cooperatives and foundations, which means that the inhabitants are ultimately the victims. What strikes me when I read the investigation is that it is first noted that quality is deemed to be equivalent in private and public-run activities. Some parts are better here, and others are better there. Then it is shown that companies in the welfare sector are making a profit, even if they had to look for a while to find a key figure that shows it. From this it is then concluded that companies should be stopped from making profits. How did they land there? In my world, the natural question would be: if private companies deliver equivalent services and products of the same quality as municipalities and county councils, but do so at a lower cost, why do municipalities and county councils have higher costs for delivering the same products and services? How can the social problem of social democrats, environmentalists and left-wing parties be that companies make profits? Why is not the question that we are discussing: What can municipalities and county councils do differently? There are, of course, many other things in the investigation that can be mentioned, not least the arbitrariness. It can be word choices or that only certain industries should be prevented from making profits with tax funds – occasionally women-dominated industries. And the irony of the argument to exclude the procurement of temporary asylum accommodations because suppliers risk leaving the market cannot be missed. Why should this only apply to temporary asylum accommodation? When it comes to the fact that the Social Democrats want to exclude profit caps for health care and care and only put private schools in jail, one really wonders how they reason. No, the government should do what Parliament announced last year and this year again, namely to make proposals that will ensure that in future we also have a jointly funded welfare of high quality, regardless of who delivers it. With regard to other social problems that have been drawn into the debate on welfare gains for ideological reasons – such as taxes possibly not being paid in Sweden or having segregated activities in schools and healthcare – it is important to address them targeted and in ways that solve the problems, not just so that it sounds good to their own voters. With regard to tax havens, it was, in brackets, the Alliance government that started work on limited interest rebates, agreements with tax havens and participation in various working groups in international cooperation within the OECD. Put the public focus on ensuring that citizens can be provided with good quality welfare services, both by municipalities and county councils and by other actors in the long term. Please discuss how municipalities and county councils can work more efficiently. More actors in welfare are one way, and then we get competition. Competition not only promotes patients, pupils and users, but also innovation and improved productivity and efficiency. It helps us to have more control over tax resources, and it promotes society as a whole.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-235	Mr President, I would like to The children are Sweden's and everyone's future, and the most important ones we have. Childhood often sets its mark on the way life then turns out. And every child deserves a good start in life. Today we are debating the Government proposal Safe and secure care for children and young people who are cared for outside their own home. The bill deals with several important and long-awaited legislative proposals to ensure good quality and safety in accommodation activities under the Social Services Act as well as consular support for family homes and on-call homes. It is also a legislative proposal that offers a health survey to all children and young people in connection with the start of community care, as well as agreements on cooperation and responsibilities between municipalities and county councils for children. We know that children and young people who are placed outside their own home have significantly higher mortality rates, lower school scores, more self-harm and greater mental illness than other children and young people. It is therefore extremely gratifying that we can now make improvements in order for children and young people who are in an especially vulnerable situation to have better opportunities to survive and to prevent the occurrence of rogue actors. It is also very gratifying that all the legislative proposals have received broad support from the consultation bodies. Mr President, I would like to A large proportion of children and young people cared for outside their own home are in activities carried out by individual actors. Children and young people are often dependent or have special needs. When society takes over the parental role of these children, it is of the utmost importance that we do not fail to do so. The bill proposes a permit requirement for activities within the social services that have been submitted by contract. This means that a company, an association, a community, a foundation or an individual who has entered into an agreement with a municipality to carry out individual activities in the form of HVB homes, assisted housing, certain forms of housing for the elderly or disabled, homes for day-to-day care or homes or open-air care activities for a limited part of the day shall be authorised by the Health and Social Care Inspection, IVO, in order to carry out such activities professionally. Authorisations shall be granted only if the activity meets the requirements of good quality and safety. As a result of the authorisation obligation, the municipality's obligation to notify activities that have been transferred by contract to individuals must also be abolished. In practice, the proposal implies that the State takes a clearer responsibility to ensure the quality of users in social services, and by imposing higher requirements and increasing the control of activities that wish to establish themselves in the welfare sector, the proposal should also help to prevent crime and prevent the free establishment of rogue operators. Mr President, I would like to We also propose a permit requirement for activities with consular support for family homes and on-call homes that receive children. Children who become eligible for care in family homes and on-call homes are in a particularly vulnerable situation. Many have a great need for support. The fact that individuals can then freely establish activities that affect these children is, of course, not acceptable. Therefore, an amendment to the Social Services Act is now being proposed, whereby activities with consular support for family homes and on-call homes that receive children and young people should be subject to permit requirements. Consultancy support activities can play a major and important role in supporting family homes, thus ensuring good care in family homes and on-call homes. However, it is essential that the activities meet the requirements of good quality and safety and that the staff have the right skills. I believe that the introduction of authorisation requirements for these activities increases the conditions for ensuring good quality and safety in support and care for children. As a group, children and young people placed in a position have worse physical and mental health than other children. This applies both during the placement and later in life. This is, of course, very serious and totally unacceptable. It underlines the importance of equal care and that all children have access to healthcare and dental care on exactly the same terms. It also underlines the importance of a well-functioning interaction between social and health services. Of course, the lack of clarity in the relationship of responsibility and the gaps in the interaction between social services and health services today risk leading to children and young people not being able to take part in the necessary or coordinated actions. There is a great need for measures to strengthen children's access to health care. It is therefore proposed to introduce provisions in the Social Services Act and the Health Care Act for municipalities and county councils to enter into agreements on cooperation between children and young people who are cared for outside their own home. Where possible, organisations representing children and young people or their relatives shall also be given the opportunity to comment on the content of the agreement. Mr President, I would like to Many children who meet social services have not been given access to general health care. This may involve missing controls but also the absence of recommended vaccinations. The bill proposes a new provision in the Social Services Act on Health Surveys for Children and Young People in connection with the start of community care. The amendment means that the Social Welfare Board must inform the county council that a child or a young person aged 18 to 20 years, in connection with the start of care outside of their own home, must be offered a health survey by the county council.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-253	Mr President, I would like to Municipalities and county councils currently have a statutory obligation to provide welfare services. They are governed by elected congregations. According to our assessment, it is therefore not appropriate to introduce a permit requirement or something equivalent to an ownership test for municipalities and county councils. We share the view of the Government that such a far-reaching intervention in municipal self-government would go beyond what is necessary with regard to the purposes that have prompted them and therefore not in accordance with the constitutional principle of proportionality. With this agreement, I would like to express my support for our reservations and for the other proposals made by the committee.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-254	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the SoU report11. The report deals with the Government proposal Safe and safe care for children and young people who are cared for outside their own home. In addition, three demands for exercise are dealt with as a result of the bill and four demands for exercise that have been received during the general period of exercise. The Government proposal proposes to introduce a permit requirement for activities within the social services that the municipality submits by contract. In addition, it introduces a permit requirement for professional activities to propose to the Social Welfare Board family homes and emergency shelters for children, providing support and supervision to family homes and emergency homes that receive children. The Social Services Act and the Health Care Act also introduce provisions for municipalities and county councils to enter into agreements on cooperation between children and young people who are cared for outside their own home. In addition, a new provision is introduced in the Social Services Act, which requires the Social Welfare Board to inform the county council, if necessary, that a child or a young person aged 18 to 20 years, in connection with the start of care outside their own home, should be offered a health survey by the county council.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-255	Mr President, I would like to We Moderates believe that a modern welfare policy should be based on the following foundations. A general authorisation requirement shall be introduced for the provision of healthcare, care and activities in the field of social services and LSS. The requirements should be equivalent for independent and public operators. There shall be national quality requirements. National quality requirements for various welfare activities should be established, and should be based in particular on results and outcomes. Regulatory authorities shall monitor quality. Authorities within each area shall be given a clear mandate to follow up and report on the performance of the business. Quality monitoring should focus primarily on measurable results and not on measuring the resources deployed. Those activities that do not achieve sufficiently good results should be addressed, and where deficiencies are not addressed, there should be clear sanctions. There shall be sanctions in the event of a lack of quality. In both public and independent activities, severe sanctions, whatever their principal, are needed to address quality deficiencies. The state must therefore be prepared to act, and it must be harder than we can do today. The Alliance government carried out several reforms to strengthen the protection of children and young people cared for outside their own home. It is important to continue this work, and that is why we welcome the proposals in the proposal. The alliance parties are also clear that demands should be made for quality and safety in welfare activities and are therefore positive to the bill as a whole. However, requirements should be imposed not only on privately operated activities but also on public ones. All well-being, regardless of the performer, will deliver at a high level. That is why I am pleased that the committee is proposing to the government that the government should return to Parliament with proposals to ensure that the same authorisation requirements as apply to an individual in order to carry out a professional activity in the field of social services should also apply to public service activities. We Moderates believe that there should be order and equal requirements regardless of the type of operation and provider of welfare. This means, for example, that consuls who only have the task of developing more places of residence should be subject to a general permit requirement. We want to strengthen the supervision of family homes and introduce clearer sanctions in several steps in the event of repeated shortcomings in the activities carried out. Failure to carry out one's task with the intended quality and safety must be subject to clear penalties. The overall development of supervision and follow-up in social services must also be continuously strengthened. Anyone who fails, who does not deliver good enough wealth, must be given more severe sanctions than is happening today. It is totally unacceptable that we can continue to operate a care unit that is not of sufficient quality. Lack of quality can never be accepted. Poor quality in both public and independent activities is a waste of tax money. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that I support our reservation 3.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-265	Mr President, I would like to Yasmine Larsson has presented the bill and the consequences for children who are placed outside their own home in an exemplary way, so I will make my speech relatively brief. Putting someone outside your own home always involves a terrible procedure in the person's life. Therefore, it is incredibly important that we ensure, as far as possible, that the care we provide is of high quality. Unfortunately, too many incidents and abuses are reported, and therefore safety and quality must be better ensured. It is not easy, of course, but every step in the right direction is good. I believe that the Government's proposal in this case is nevertheless a step in the right direction, and we support much of them. Among other things, we welcome the proposal that county councils and regions in the future should offer health surveys for children and young people who are cared for outside their own home, as some county councils are already doing today. We therefore support this proposal and believe that it can ensure optimum care at least in terms of hospital needs. We also welcome the proposal that, in future, the private operator of social services must be authorised to carry out activities that have agreements with municipalities, such as HVB homes or housing for disabled people. These have previously, as has been explained here, had exemptions from the authorisation requirement. This exception is now being removed, and we think that is a good thing. We also agree with the proposal that the professional activities responsible for proposing family homes or on-call homes for social welfare boards should be subject to authorisation, as should those providing support and guidance for family homes and on-call homes receiving children. We also see this as part of strengthening quality. Requirements must be made for safety and quality in all welfare activities, and that is why, as I said, we are in favour of large parts of the bill. However, we believe that equal requirements must be imposed on all actors in the welfare system, regardless of their place of residence, and therefore that the obligation to permit must apply to all persons regardless of their mode of operation. There must therefore be the same requirements for activities run by the municipalities themselves. The authorisation requirement applicable to private activities shall also apply to public activities. Fortunately, we share this view with the alliance parties and can therefore hopefully gain a majority for such a proposal when we vote. Mr President, I would like to As has been said, something needs to be done to ensure, as far as possible, that children and young people who are present in society for various reasons also receive the help they need to be able to stand on their own feet as soon as possible or at least to receive care in their own home. Society must not betray an entire generation of children placed again. Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-JAZQzKh5SvJSAHGq1nEbkv	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Isabella Lövin, Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson, Minister Gabriel Wikström and Minister Anna Ekström. An issue shall be of a general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government of Isabella Lövin answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-274	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Hellmark Knutsson. The lack of qualified teachers around Sweden is becoming felt by Sweden's municipalities and other principals. Recruitment needs are high in almost all categories of teachers, but this may be especially true of teachers in mathematics and Swedish as a second language. Not least in our areas of exclusion – where insecurity is now getting stuck, as we have seen in recent days – it is becoming increasingly difficult to recruit good teachers. The Moderates want to move forward with investments in KPU, want to develop Teach for Sweden and have made proposals for independent teacher training. But so far it's quiet from the government. We have also proposed a special focus on primary teachers in exclusion areas. There is a need not only for more police officers in the exclusion areas, but also for more talented teachers.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-278	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Erik Bengtzboe for the fact that the Moderates have now noted that there is a shortage of teachers in Sweden. We did this already in connection with the elections and have therefore been working on this issue since the first day we took office. We inherited two things from the Alliance government when it comes to school. One was falling learning results, and the other was a great approaching shortage of teachers. Nevertheless, it is gratifying that the search pressure for teacher training is now increasing. That is why we can expand teacher training, with a total of 10 000 new places over the next four years. We are also already investing in KPU and Teach for Sweden. All of this is in our budget proposals. It is a pity that Erik Bengtzboe has not read and read them. Of course, we are also looking at how we can increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession. This increases the attractiveness of the teacher's salary boost, which increases the salary boost to approximately 60 000 teachers. We are also going to develop the career service reform, which is in an investigation today.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-282	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your answer. The government knows I'm literate. I know that the Government is also literate. The Government knows that the search pressure for teacher training increased during the alliance years. It has actually stood still ever since. We know that the places proposed by the government are already empty. We have proposed a number of measures, including the KPU and Teach for Sweden. There we go further, as it leads to more places and more educated teachers.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-286	Madam President, I would like The search pressure continues to rise. But it is uneven between the different teacher training courses. We are making sure to expand at such a pace that we can do so while maintaining quality. As I said, we have a great shortage of teachers. And we will have that for many years. It was one of the legacy you left behind, Erik Bengtzboe. But I am absolutely sure that, with the measures that we are taking and the measures that we are going to propose in the future, we will be able to face the shortage of teachers, create an attractive teaching profession and ensure that all children meet a qualified teacher.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-289	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Isabella Lövin. The government seems to be surprised at every wave of burning cars and every attack on bluelight personnel. Surprised, in any case, was the word that the Prime Minister chose as a comment that Donald Trump pointed out Sweden as an example of a country where immigration has gone beyond control and creates major problems. But the Swedish Democrats are not surprised. We pointed out those problems long before they became reality. You wanted more immigration, Isabella Lövin. You got more immigration. And now you're sitting with a gigantic alienation that you've lost control of completely. I guess it's time to stop being surprised. Over half the term of office has passed. Are you going to keep letting Dan Eliasson bake buns all night in order to buy the bad guys coffee? Is it not time for more educated police officers in external service, increased police powers, proper penalties for those who deserve it, but above all penalties for the expulsion of those foreigners who no longer deserve to remain in our country?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-293	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for this question. All crime is, of course, totally unacceptable. The government is very serious about the riots, riots and similar events that have taken place recently. We have contributed SEK 2.7 billion to the police between 2017 and 2020. When it comes to harsher penalties, the government has found no universal solution. On the other hand, we have ensured that penalties have been imposed for travel for the purpose of terrorism, for serious drug offences and forgery of money. There has also been an increase in minimum penalties for serious violent crimes. We've set up an investigation into better protection for bluelight personnel. We are also reviewing higher penalties for a wide range of violent crimes. It's not a question of us sitting here watching. But we also need to take social measures to improve the functioning of those areas.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-298	Madam President, I would like I am well aware of the work that is going on within the government. Over 70 proposals have been handled under Minister of the Interior Ygeman. It's amazing. It's a pretty good tempo. You have a good drive, Isabella Lövin. But I'm sorry to have to tell you, it's not a pillow fight we're arming for. In spite of your 70 propositions, the bull is still free to play in our suburbs. The proposals of the Swedish Democrats have been on the table since day one. Drop the prestige and start looking at them! I think you too will finally understand that that is what is required.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-300	Madam President, I would like There is very extensive and serious work going on to tackle the rise in crime, where it has increased. We have also started a very extensive work to ensure that Sweden stays together. It is about us taking care of our young people before they fall into crime. It is also about investing in school and welfare, in a Sweden that stays together – also in rural areas. We have a long list of serious proposals that we are now implementing.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-304	Madam President, I would like Last week, the Social Affairs Committee called a number of authorities due to the greatly increasing mental illness of unaccompanied refugee children. The Government of Wikström and Secretary of State from the Ministry of Social Affairs also attended. The meeting revealed that unaccompanied minors who have taken their lives, who are at high risk of suicide or who have serious self-harm have not received or receive as much support and help as other children with similar needs. There are shortcomings. The authorities reported on a number of measures taken to identify the needs and assistance provided.
i-N6B1BLtFmycJdMjmy4zKsn	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Emma Henriksson! This is a serious problem. I think that all of us in this House can at least try to imagine what it is like to be 16, 17 or 18 years old and come to a new country very far from home and face an uncertain future. It is clear that this increases the risk of falling into mental illness and of feeling really bad. It is on this basis that we now need to look at what measures society should take to help these children. We had a meeting on Tuesday when we had called together representatives of both civil society and the authorities. One thing that came out there and that we are now taking to heart is to strengthen the adults who are around these children. It is about better knowledge and better tools to be able to meet mental health problems and help children.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-310	Madam President, I would like It's important. Every little n effort made and every support given to those around is important. Nevertheless, I do find a concern that there is not really enough emergency awareness of the urgency of the need. In the long term, we can do more to reinforce this, but what is now being done urgently from the government? There is an imminent risk to these children every day that we do not reach them enough with the help and support they need.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-311	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I think that we have a strong sense of crisis, and that is why the government has acted so quickly and resolutely to bring together the actors concerned, get any proposals on the table and then start implementing them. Much of the work that now needs to be done is in municipalities and county councils. I am pleased that SKL itself has pointed out tasks that can be taken on, such as better education and better support for those who work and are closest to these children. SKL has a good track record of how you have worked last autumn, and I think you can do the same again.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-313	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lövin. We can call him Ali. He loved to draw and paint and to play football. Just over two weeks ago, he took his own life. Ali was 17 years old. Unfortunately, Ali is not alone; six children have killed themselves in the last six months. There are six children who struggled with math homework, were in love and were thinking about the future. When the government introduced the temporary law, it was said that the law would bring fewer people in need of protection to come here. Family fragmentation, temporary residence permits and the abolition of protection grounds for humanitarian reasons would act as a deterrent. But the thing is, it also terrifies people who are here. It affects their lives. That is what we are seeing in unaccompanied minors today – the consequence of political decisions.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-317	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Christina Höj Larsen, for also paying attention to an important issue and a tragedy that is going on in our country right now with many unaccompanied refugee children who feel very bad! The government decided on the temporary law because we see that we need to have a situation in which we can accept those in need of asylum, and then we need to be able to make a legal test of all those who come. It became a situation where the processing times were extremely long for the Migration Agency, and there was no preparation for this. What is important now is that we protect a system in which those who have asylum reasons can have their applications processed, taken care of within a reasonable time and get the asylum to which they are entitled if they flee. There have been many people who have been caught up in this time, and my colleague has just explained what we are doing in this regard.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-321	Madam President, I would like It is good and much needed that the government do some things and put some patches on the wounds. But I do meet teachers, social secretaries and other people who are in close contact with unaccompanied minors on a daily basis. I'm meeting with the League of Ensamkommans tomorrow. Everyone says the same thing: it is the temporary law that needs to be changed. It does not help to put a patch on the wounds. The question is: when will the government understand that it is precisely the temporary law, the readmission agreement with Afghanistan and stopping the expulsions that are at stake?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-323	Madam President, I would like I think it is extremely important that we have a legal test for those seeking asylum in Sweden. The speaking time did not allow what I tried to say earlier, but I would like to point out that Annika Strandhäll and Gabriel Wikström have invited authorities and organisations to discuss what the government can do to strengthen municipalities and county councils' work on mental illness in this group. Of course, every case of mental illness and anxiety is a failure, but we must also safeguard the right to asylum. And this government does.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-326	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to Minister of Higher Education Helene Hellmark Knutsson. Yesterday, registration for summer courses in Sweden was opened. Despite high demand, 2017 is no exception. The number of summer courses continues to decrease in Sweden. During the time of the Red - Green Government alone, the number of summer courses has fallen by about 17 percent, from about 400 to about 330. It is the number of summer courses offered this year. This is unfortunate, particularly because it creates displacement effects on the labour market. But it also extends students' training time. In the 2014 election campaign, the future government party of the Social Democrats promised that it would start big on summer courses. But now that one is in government, the fulfillment of the promises shines with their absence. The latest budget does not even mention summer courses with one word.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-331	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Fredrik Christensson, for an urgent question! This applies not only to summer courses, but also to single courses and independent courses have decreased in number for a long time of years. There are clear links to the resource and control system that we have and that the university has had since 1993. The previous government did nothing about this. Now we have announced that it will be an investigation to get a more timely resource system that makes it possible to read flexibly. This applies to summer courses as well as to lifelong learning where you can also study later in life, for example through independent courses.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-333	Madam President, I would like My question was not about what the previous government did not do, but what this government intends to do. An inquiry into the resource allocation system is welcome, but it does not help those who want to study summer courses now or those who want to study their education faster. In the 2014 election movement, the Social Democrats were very clear that they wanted to enable more summer courses. But despite the fact that they have now been in government for two and a half years, the number of summer courses continues to decrease. Can we expect the government to do anything before the investigation into the resource allocation system comes, or do the students have to wait until then?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-336	Madam President, I would like It would take far too long to rumble up everything that the previous government did not do in my area. That is why I say that what we are doing is that we are expanding with 18 000 new higher education places. It provides an opportunity for our colleges and universities to offer both more summer courses and more independent courses.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-338	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Public Health Gabriel Wikström. Today, employees in Sweden can receive health care allowance to play ice hockey, go to gym, curl, bathe herbal baths and engage in other healthy activities – but not to ride. As early as nine years ago, the Parliament agreed to make horseback riding deductible as a health care. But the decision was never sent to the Tax Agency for any reason, and the rules have not changed since. Prior to the 2014 elections, all parties except the Left Party said yes to horseback riding as health care. The government has promised a preparation during this term of office, but now the issue seems to be stuck somewhere on the road again. My question is simply: what is happening on this important issue?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-342	Madam President, I would like As Bengt Eliasson says, this is an important issue. There are a great many, hundreds of thousands of people who ride and who do so every week. It is strange that this is not included in the health care allowance. Both I and the Minister for Finance have previously said exactly what Bengt Eliasson points out: this needs to be investigated, and we probably need to review the entire right to deduct when it comes to health care. Earlier notice applies, i.e. that it should be made during the term of office. Unfortunately, I can't be more precise than this today.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-344	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Public Health, for your answer. Yes, equestrian sport also has a nearby and important function, namely rehabilitation and habilitation for people who want to come back after injury or illness and for people with disabilities. Making equestrian sport a healthy health care would also strengthen this part. It is likely that the supply and access to this would increase for many. Does the Minister intend to broaden the health care effort to these people as well?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-346	Madam President, I would like I hope, as I said, that an investigation can answer more questions than just whether or not horseback riding should be included in the right to deduct. Every year, the state spends quite a lot of money on health care through this right of deduction. These should probably be much better used.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-348	Madam President, I would like I, too, have a question for Minister Wikström. All that often we hear about overcrowding in hospitals around the country. Many times it is because patients remain behind after receiving the medical care they need in the hospital. This in turn is often due to the fact that the measures of care that you need from the municipality are not really in place. As we all know, it is not so healthy to be in a hospital. You do not always get the care and care that you need. It can even be risky. In addition, it creates overlays and stasises, and it is difficult to get into the emergency room. Many are over 65 years old. It's about old and fragile people. We know that, on average, you have to wait four days to get home after you've been treated.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-352	Madam President, I would like This is a very important issue because, as Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson points out, it poses a great risk for the individual patient to remain in hospital unnecessarily long. It also means taking up a place of care that could go to someone else. The consequences of this have been seen, among other things, in the country's emergency departments, where patients have been forced to stay instead of coming to the right health department. This has often been done because the site is occupied by a finished patient. The Government has recently presented a bill that puts greater pressure on the municipalities and county councils to agree on these patients. In short, as soon as a patient is admitted, the care provider must send a notice to stakeholders within 24 hours that a patient will be discharged within a certain assumed time and that the recipient will prepare to receive the patient. In this way, we shall be able to speed things up. We are also tightening up the consequences for the absence of such an agreement.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-355	Madam President, I would like It feels safe that we will get better care of this group, because these people and the health care system really deserve it. But we also know that there are major shortcomings in communication between municipalities and county councils in this regard. In fact, further efforts need to be made to ensure that patients receive the right care on time. How do the Government and the Government respond to these concerns and challenges?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-357	Madam President, I would like We are responding in the way I have just explained. We tighten the requirements for municipalities and county councils to come to an agreement. Among other things, we do this by setting a deadline for notifying stakeholders within 24 hours that they have a patient who is enrolled and who will probably need care in the near future. We also tighten the deadline for the start of liability for the municipality. We are therefore working both with stricter requirements and with stricter consequences.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-359	Madam President, I would like I want to ask Minister Isabella Lövin a question. It concerns the forthcoming maritime conference hosted by Sweden together with Fiji. There the SDGs, namely Agenda 2030 and the sustainability objectives, will be affected. The Government itself usually talks about these issues and tells us that about 3 billion people depend on protein from the sea and that at the rate we are now polluting the sea we will have more plastic than fish by 2050. How, says the Minister, will this conference bring practical and actual results so that there is not just talk?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-362	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that, together with Fiji, we have managed to get all the Member States of the United Nations behind a conference on how to implement all the commitments that the world has signed for many years. However, we have not yet succeeded in implementing them. It is about how we should support developing countries in their waste management so that the amount of plastic litter is reduced. It is also about how we can support poorer countries and help each other with monitoring and control of illegal fishing, which today accounts for about 25% of all fish taken out of our seas. It is also about how we can actually realise the promises we made in Nagoya to protect 10 percent of the oceans, including those that are international waters. We have no instruments to agree on the global level, and we have to do that because the seas are connected. Those who destroy the sea in one place destroy the sea for all. So we must help each other here.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-365	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. Of the 16 different objectives contained in Agenda 2030, only the sea target 14 has a negative trend. It's not going very well. Even at home, we have the goal of living coasts and seas that are not going very well either. How does the Minister think that the work on Objective 14 should also be reflected here at home? What will we do?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-367	Madam President, I would like Agenda 2030 concerns us all, locally, nationally, regionally and globally. Sweden will make a number of commitments for the conference. We are fully aware that everything we have done in relation to our seas is not good examples that can spread, because we have huge problems. We need to speed up our ambition here at home too. The Government of Skog and not least Minister Bucht are deeply involved in the work on a national agenda. I am responsible for the international aspect of supporting other countries.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-370	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Minister Anna Ekström a question. Ever since the elections, the threat to freedom of choice has been a wet blanket over all free schools. It ultimately affects the students. 40% of all high school students in Stockholm today go to a free school. It goes without saying that closing them would be an incredibly big problem to say the least. In addition, the number of pupils has increased sharply in recent years. We need the opposite of bans and closures. We need more schools and schools that dare to grow.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-373	Madam President, I would like Sweden is unique in many ways. One of the many ways in which we in Sweden are unique is our combination of an almost free right of establishment for independent schools, a school choice that is designed so that it does not strengthen equivalence and an opportunity to make profit. In addition, we have a school grant that, combined with a ban on charging fees, means that we have a completely unique system in Sweden. In many other countries there is a rich diversity of independent schools. As far as I know, there is no discussion or debate within any of the government parties about not liking independent schools. However, we see problems with a market-driven system that leads to increasing segregation and does not strengthen the conditions for giving all students a really good education. We want to see a school that steers towards knowledge and education, not profit. I am convinced that such paths can be found while ensuring that we maintain a system of independent schools in Sweden.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-376	Madam President, I would like Many other countries have not just implemented Reepalus's proposal. This has been investigated and proposed by the government. Isn't it time the government and the minister called a shovel a shovel? The Administrative Court of Appeal, the Swedish National Audit Office, the Swedish Competition Authority and most social democraticly governed municipalities know and say so. In addition, we all know here and the government that this will lead to the closure of free schools.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-379	Madam President, I would like In addition to being a temple for knowledge and education, not for the pursuit of profit, it is important to remember that beyond venture capital companies and stock exchange directors there are amazing principals and teachers working in independent schools. It is important to ensure that we have a system of many schools and a variety of different school variants. I am convinced that it is possible to create a system that combines freedom of choice for parents and students with a presence of independent schools without having our hard-hitting marketing school in Sweden.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-380	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Gabriel Wikström. The medical doctor has conducted a survey of 55 lex Maria deaths in hospitals during 2016. It has been found that 13 of these can be partly explained by job shortages, staff shortages or extreme workload. Unfortunately, this is not surprising, as we are constantly receiving reports from our county councils that the queues to both emergency departments as well as surgery and treatments are constantly increasing. Most recently on the news this morning we heard about certain places that even needed guards in the health centers as a result of the long queues. It is terrible that patients should suffer and even die because of shortcomings in care that could have been corrected. My question is, short and simple: what immediate steps will be taken to tackle these problems?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-383	Madam President, I would like Accessibility in healthcare is one of the most important challenges. As Carina Herrstedt points out, it is closely linked to the shortage of staff in many places. Therefore, the government's main priority has been to make it easier for county councils and other health care providers to find staff to hire. We have increased the number of training places. We have allocated a special professional billion to the county council to work with personnel supply issues. Most recently, we also have within the framework of professional billions of SEK 300 million that should be able to go to study salary for the nurses who choose to train. These are some examples of what the government is doing. But at the same time it should be remembered that those who have the main responsibility and the greatest opportunity to do something in the emergency situation are county councils and other health care providers. There I expect more to be done than is done today.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-385	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. The fact that so many county councils report the same problems cannot mean that there are problems at all county councils. There's got to be a system malfunction somewhere. I think it is great to have the measures that they say they have taken or are about to take. But it's in the long term, and people are dying now. What are we going to do in the short term to remedy the problems we have now?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-388	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I would like to point out that the country is different. In some county councils, you can handle the care guarantee very well and have staff both in emergency departments and in other parts of the health care system. But in several county councils it is a concern, and it is often linked precisely to the staff situation. Of course it's connected. Doctors, nurses and other health workers move across the country. This is an issue that we must resolve jointly between the government and the county councils.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-390	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Minister Wikström. Primary care is the basis of Swedish healthcare. That's where we have really big problems. That's a lack of availability. Fewer and fewer Swedes have a permanent health contact. Even fewer people have a fixed doctor's appointment. Staff doctors are manning more and more of our health centers. But that's not how it looks everywhere. I visited Söderhamnsfjärden's health centre a few weeks ago. There's a full crew. It is satisfied patients and an extremely high availability. The new arrivals who want to come to the health centre the same day. Still, they were sad because they were preparing the plan for how to shut down very quickly in three months' time. My question is: why is the government putting so much effort into the Reepalus investigation, which is directly directed at the private health centres, which are well-functioning, rather than putting energy into how to solve the major challenges facing primary care, with relay doctors and lack of availability?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-394	Madam President, I would like The first part of Anders W Jonsson's speech describes a picture that I largely share. There are major problems in primary care. We need to do more to both invest resources and ensure that staff want to work in primary care, because that is the very basis for both today's and future health care. However, I am more doubtful about the second part. I don't see any contradiction. The government wants to regulate the flora of different regulations that have emerged over the past 25 years and ensure that we get better order and order in the welfare system, so that you can be sure of the rules of the game, whether you are a public or private health care provider. This makes the Government's ambition clear. We will regulate this better, but we want to maintain a variety of different actors.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-396	Madam President, I would like And here's the challenge. We have primary care with an enormous challenge. The government then devotes its energies to targeting the private health centres and health centres that work with precision. What I would like the Minister to do is to focus instead on those units where we actually have major problems. How are we going to get more doctors into primary care? How should we ensure a new accessibility? There we could meet between the Alliance and the government in trying to create the conditions for better primary care. But start by putting the Reepalu investigation in the trash!
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-397	Madam President, I would like My focus is precisely to increase accessibility throughout healthcare. There I am absolutely convinced that the government and the Center Party can meet in different ways. But I believe that creating order in welfare is an ambition that cannot wait. For 25 to 30 years we have had a situation where we have experimented quite a lot in Swedish welfare and changed the regulations. We have a flora of different regulations and actors. This must be regulated.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-400	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by quoting from an interview with Helene Hellmark Knutsson in Popular Astronomy: I think we need to set that kind of goal... I think it inspires everyone. ..................................................... On the same day that issue came out, I wrote with others Christer Fuglesang that we should set as a goal for Swedish space policy that we should have a Swedish on Mars by the 2030s. It was immediately thought: Here we can get along – in space there are no party boundaries. But there I was wrong, because immediately the Space Minister turned and thought it was no good idea at all to set a goal to get to Mars. We're going to have an earthy space policy instead. That's clever. But why was it right when you said it and wrong when I said it? Is it just because I'm liberal, or why?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-403	Madam President, I would like I thank Mathias Sundin for these questions. As I said, I believe that space policy is precisely of this nature. It makes us all think about the big questions and our existence. Therefore, it is exciting with, for example, discoveries of new planets in another solar system. It is also exciting to imagine that people should be able to go to Mars. If that is to be the most important objective of Swedish space policy, however, I am a little more doubtful. I would like to see more Swedish astronauts after Christer Fuglesang. But I believe that, above all, we must ensure that the space policy we have can lead to both jobs and growth here at home.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-404	Madam President, I would like I believe that space policy by definition is good for us on Earth. It's for us on Earth. But we here on earth have always done explorations, always searching for us. Mars is our next big goal to explore. I think that Sweden should be part of this. I also believe that it will create jobs and growth. But the exploration is good in itself. Actually, I don't want a space minister saying she's standing on the ground with both her feet.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-406	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mathias Sundin! No, I understand. I don't think you want a Social Democratic Minister for Space, but maybe a liberal Minister for Space. I think it is important to see that we can do both. There was a great deal in the 21st century about manned space travel and cooperation on the international space station. Space policy is now being developed. It is now very much about what is called New Space and how we can use space technology to improve our living conditions here on earth. Public education as a counterforce against false news
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-410	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Anna Ekström. Today false news and misinformation are spreading around the world. This is happening in the USA, Russia, Europe and here in Sweden. It ultimately damages trust in each other and open society, and therefore democracy and freedom of expression. Our ability to evaluate different sources of information and be able to take a stand is an important part of our building society. My question to the Government is: How does the Government view the role and opportunities of public education as counter-force to what is now happening with so-called fake news?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-413	Madam President, I would like You're all scared of the dark. No human being is unmoved by the discussion that has now broken out all over the world. We see the emergence of so-called alternative facts or fake news in the debate. We also see that it is a way of acting and debating that sometimes seems to be successful. Politics and social issues must be based on reality. I believe that we are all dreading the development of society in which decisions taken by politicians or officials in the service of the state and the municipality are based on other than solid facts. These are hugely important issues for the school and for all of us, but not least for the education of the people. Since its inception in the mid-1900s, it has broken the ground for the development of democracy, but also for a peoples' education in the true sense of the word. It is a liberation of man that has never been more important than now.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-416	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Government mentions all this with peoples' movements and peoples' education. Sweden is a country where we have a rich history. It would be boring and boring if we did not raise the issues even more strongly. It is important not only to talk about school but also to talk about peoples' movements and peoples' education. That is when we can make the changes right at the bottom of the kitchen table and into the democratic soul. I thank you for this and hope that we can work together.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-417	Madam President, I would like We often talk about the need for source criticism. Sure, the need for source criticism is enormous these days. But there is also a need for a source criticism that is combined with solid facts. These are hugely important issues. Today we have study circles in all of Sweden's municipalities. The work carried out within the framework of peoples' education with non-profit forces and fellow human beings who stand up for each other is extremely important in order to strengthen the very realization that we need a society based on facts and source criticism.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-420	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Aid Isabella Lövin. In October, the Minister and I held an interpellation debate on aid to the Sahrawi refugee camps. The Minister then promised that aid to the Sahrawi refugee camps would be firm. Against this background, it is very surprising and worrying that the budgeted aid for 2017 has fallen sharply. For 2017, the budget has been reduced to 5 million to go via UNHCR to the Sahrawi refugees. This means almost a halving of the aid that has previously gone to the refugee camps, which have averaged 9 million. Humanitarian aid for the Sahrawi camps is still high. If it decreases, it risks having serious consequences for the camps in terms of poor health conditions for children and women in particular, but it will also increase the great frustration in the camps.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-425	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Johnsson Fornarve, for drawing attention once again to the very hopeless situation of the Sahrawi refugees for many decades. We channel our support through our development agency Sida. The government has not taken a decision to reduce the aid. It is Sida's authority to make the payments and also respond to the appeals and needs of humanitarian aid around the world. I can note that last year the aid channelled increased considerably and went precisely to the Sahrawi refugee camps in Tindouf. We have not yet seen what Sida will finally do or which organisation to work with this year.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-428	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. According to Sida, SEK 5 million will be paid out next year. It is almost a halve of the aid that has expired for many years. It's very troubling. There is a great risk that frustration will increase in the camps. It can give new impetus to those who want to take up the armed struggle again. That's not what we need. This aid is terribly important.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-431	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Lotta Johnsson Fornarve, for highlighting this question! It's very important. I can only emphasise that it is Sida as an aid authority that assesses the organisations that we will cooperate with and channel our support via. Ultimately, the decision is the assisting authority. The government has in no way decided to reduce aid.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-433	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Gabriel Wikström. In a new survey where the National Board of Health and Welfare has interviewed 51 municipalities about unaccompanied youth and suicide, it emerged that they had known of three suicides and another 68 suicide attempts during 2016– 2017. In addition, more than half of the municipalities surveyed replied that they knew that there were suicide plans among the unaccompanied residents in these municipalities. In 2016, more than twice as many asylum seekers children and young people were enrolled in the county council-owned section of children's and young people's psychiatry in Stockholm compared to the previous year. The statistics show that about 40 percent of them had suicidal thoughts. The situation is now urgent.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-437	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question, Amir Adan! As I said earlier, this is a very urgent issue precisely because it is serious. It is about children and children who depend on society's care in different ways. What we shall remember and that emerged both at the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee last week and at the meeting that I and Åsa Regnér invited to this week together with authorities and civil society organisations is that a contributing cause, in addition to the trauma that many of these children have gone through, is precisely the uncertainty that is around them. It is clear that this uncertainty is often reinforced by the fact that they do not understand the language and that it is a completely new country and system. What we need to do now is to create greater peace and quiet around these children. It is about being able to strengthen the adults who are close to the children, including with knowledge but also with other tools to face mental illness as such and above all to help and provide good support to the children.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-440	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is good that action is taken. But the work needs to be done immediately, focusing also on short and fast action here and now. This applies, for example, to suicide prevention measures such as information campaigns in different languages to obtain the information. We are informed that unaccompanied minors in closed forums on the internet are triggering each other to take their lives and that people are being sought out to commit collective suicide. This is extremely serious. What does the Government intend to do here and now?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-443	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that what came out at the meeting with authorities and civil society organisations was that everyone was touchingly agreed that what we need to talk about is mental illness in the broader sense. There are absolute examples of suicide and suicide attempts. We take that very seriously. But if we just focus on it, we risk losing all the children we could help much earlier before they end up in such a serious situation that they are trying to kill themselves or even manage to kill themselves. We need to see the whole range.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-445	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Gabriel Wikström. According to the OECD, Sweden today has one of the world's highest consumption of antidepressant medicine. The National Board of Health and Welfare has reported that the release of antipsychotic medicine and sedative medicine has also increased dramatically, especially in children and young people.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-448	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to point out that medicines are often part of the treatment of various mental disorders and mental conditions. However, as Cassandra Sundin suggests, there is of course reason to believe that there is a certain list of medicinal products to the detriment of other treatments. Through the Government's major initiative and the agreement we have reached with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council, we will be able to establish more of early interventions in health care and also more of a preventive work. One problem in healthcare is that there is a lack of awareness and knowledge in large parts of primary care about how to deal with mental illness. Then it can be easy to use the tools known, i.e. medicines, while other tools are not used to the same extent.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-452	Madam President, I would like Then I must thank the Government very much for the answer. My supplementary question then is: What does the government intend to do to increase the patient's power and influence in the form of different courses of psychotherapy offered in many other countries, such as Finland?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-453	Madam President, I would like I can continue where I left off in the first post. By strengthening early intervention in healthcare, raising awareness and ensuring that access to different tools is increased for healthcare professionals, we also provide more opportunities for patients to exercise influence over their own care and treatment, but above all to receive care and treatment in the first place. That is the government's top priority.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-456	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Isabella Lövin. Recent reports show that global emissions have levelled and decreased. That is very pleasing. In Sweden, we have successfully reduced our emissions since 1990. However, I am concerned about the latest reports that indicate that Swedish emissions are now increasing, not least emissions from transport.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-460	Madam President, I would like It is now very urgent to really take the climate issue seriously. The Government is investing EUR 25 billion in environmental and climate measures during its term of office. These are historically large investments. But we are now seeing that emissions are not falling, especially in the transport sector. Here we have a climate offensive that we will roll out in the spring with targeted efforts to produce more environmentally friendly cars. It will then be possible for consumers to benefit those cars that emit less exhaust gas compared to those that are bad for the environment. There will be a higher mix of renewable fuels. An electric and charging infrastructure for electric cars shall be implemented. We'll bet on the trains. We will also make proposals for a flight tax that will also allow aviation to bear its environmental costs. It is a combination of measures that is needed.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-463	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer that shows that we can reverse the trend again and go ahead.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-464	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that, Marianne Pettersson! This is something that we in the Swedish Parliament can be proud of together. There are seven parties that are behind a climate law that we are presenting now with a climate policy framework that makes things right in climate policy. All parties are now souled and are committed to reducing emissions. Sweden can be a leading country now that we see that climate sceptics are regaining power in the world. We need to show the world that we can.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-466	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Gabriel Wikström. Nearly 900 people are now in line for organ transplantation. But in Sweden we can only handle between 200 and 250 transplants a year – this despite the fact that the donation will is very high in Sweden compared to other countries, 81 percent. Our legislation is putting obstacles in the way. Investigation has been carried out that points to what needs to be changed in the law. Consultation has been completed. Then my question is: when does a bill arrive? Waiting for everyone in line is difficult.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-470	Madam President, I would like As Barbro Westerholm points out, it is very important to increase the number of donations in Sweden and the availability of organs that can be donated. Like Barbro Westerholm, I can say that the will to donate is very great among the Swedish people. We have also seen that the number of donations has increased in recent years. Of course, that is not enough. The study referred to by Barbro Westerholm is a very good basis for moving forward and improving legislation. I hope to be able to present a proposal in the autumn where we can take advantage of much of the investigation's proposals. The reason it has delayed and delayed a little more is that there are difficult ethical balances that we have to make. Among other things, it is about what care measures should be given in the final stage of life and when the donation process should start and not.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-473	Madam President, I would like Waiting's hard. Today, we are dependent on the will to donate in other countries that have the legislation that we do not yet have. I welcome the fact that we will receive a bill to Parliament this autumn.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-475	Madam President, I would like I can only agree with Barbro Westerholm. If we can increase the number of people willing to donate within the country's borders and thus the availability of organs, we are making ourselves less dependent on other countries, while helping to reduce the illegal trade in organs that takes place globally.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-476	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Climate Change Isabella Lövin. Last week, the European Parliament voted on the new trade agreement with Canada. It is an agreement for which, among other things, Minister for European Affairs and Trade Ann Linde has spoken warmly. Nevertheless, none of Sweden's parliamentarians in the government paper voted in favour of this trade agreement. The MEPs of the Green Party voted to and against and now go into the media and say that they are proud of it. My simple question to Isabella Lövin then becomes: Which line is it really that applies?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-480	Madam President, I would like It is not uncommon for representatives of government parties to vote in one way in the European Parliament and then take a different decision in a government position. This was also the case under the previous government in the field of climate change when it came to increasing the price of emission allowances. Then the moderate parliamentarians vote 'no' in the European Parliament, while the government stood for a completely different line. In this case, it is true that the environmental partisan Members of the European Parliament have voted against the CETA Agreement while we from the government have been actively working to ensure that CETA includes strengthened environmental clauses, when it comes to social security elements that will ensure that this is as good an agreement as possible.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-482	Madam President, I would like The government often talks about sustainable development, and that is a good thing. However, voting against trade, against cooperation and against development may not be so sustainable. One supplementary question is of course: if you see that you cannot cooperate with, for example, Canada, who could you enter into trade agreements with?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-484	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a country that is very dependent on free and fair trade. The emphasis on fairness is also important for development in Sweden. We cannot have trade agreements of the kind that it dumps the opportunities for Swedish industry, Swedish workers or the Swedish environment. It is therefore important that, when we have these kinds of negotiations, we ensure fair conditions. That is the line taken by the government and we are behind it.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-487	Madam President, I would like Government Wikström! The lack of intensive care places for children is acute throughout Sweden. Ten seats are currently missing. There are 37 places in four hospitals. At present, there are only 27 due to recruitment problems and so on. New Karolinska would provide more care places, but it has instead become fewer, which is typical of this region, which is under misrule, one might say, of bourgeois politicians. Now I have to ask you, Gabriel Wikström, what can we do at national level to increase the number of seats. What signal should we give to those county councils that do not manage to keep their intensive care places open for children? What can we do at national level? I'm asking you.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-490	Madam President, I would like As far as the number of intensive care places is concerned, we see that the major shortage there today is about finding staff. There is a strong shortage of specialist nurses but also other categories of staff. That is why, from the first day, the government has focused on doing more when it comes to the provision of skills in health care than any government has done in the past. Among other things, we have provided general grants. This year it is almost 3 billion that goes out to the county councils and can help to strengthen the staff situation. We are investing in a special professional billion to improve the supply of skills in the workplace, and within it we are going to give 300 million SEK to enable nurses to choose to train as a specialist nurse. We also expand the number of places to both nurse, specialist nurse and midwife. So there is a palette of measures that the government is now taking.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-493	Madam President, I would like Wikström! I'm aware of that, and we're on that train, so to speak. This has not developed during the two years in which you have been in government, but this is a long development that is about welfare being more or less eroded. In Stockholm they have 1 billion plus in their budget. Maybe you could put on staff, I think. I would like to conclude by saying something quite different. Thanks for the quick investigation into Naloxon!
i-ThTpY7vkts42bQBkuQMKsk	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that, Karin Rågsjö! I fully agree that although the government is doing a lot in the area of skills provision and can certainly do a great deal more, it is ultimately an employer issue. The Landstingen bears a great responsibility for what the situation looks like around the country. Then it matters who governs and what political priorities you do. If you choose to reduce the tax or keep the tax low instead of investing in welfare, it will have consequences.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-497	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Anna Ekström. Many companies today find it difficult to find labour. At the same time, we have a group of people who are outside the labour market, and many of them are new arrivals. A smart way to combine these needs is to arrange education in Swedish in combination with lack of vocational training. The municipality of Haninge has arranged such an education with the help of large contributions and government grants via the National Agency for Education. These include training for electricians, painters, welders, vehicle mechanics, child care workers, student and teacher assistants, personal assistants and nurses. The effort has been very successful, but it has taken time to find a design that suited the government's way of organising support for such efforts. My question is: how does the government view these efforts that the municipalities are doing, and can the Minister say something that will make us feel confident that there will be good funding for this type of work from the state side in the future?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-500	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Åsa Westlund! The word challenge is worn out, but what a challenge we have in Sweden! We have a labour market that screams for skilled labour, not least the labour force that Åsa Westlund mentions in her list of occupations, while we have a very large group of young people who leave upper secondary school without an adequate upper secondary education and very few who apply for the professional programmes that lead to the jobs that are really needed in the labour market. Here, a professional adult can have an incredible importance, and it is very welcome that Haninge and other municipalities really invest resources in doing what the labour market and employers need and that many young people in Sweden need. I can assure you that the government will work very hard to ensure that there are good opportunities for municipalities to continue making this kind of effort and to ensure that there is co-financing.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-503	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your positive answer, Minister. I think that many who work with this daily feel a strong encouragement from such a response from the government and also a security in planning further. My supplementary question is: How can we ensure that this approach, combining Swedish education and lack of vocational education at upper secondary level, can be spread to more municipalities so that this activity can be scaled up and benefit more people? I wonder if the government has any thoughts about that.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-505	Madam President, I would like One of the aims of the major reform undertaken by the government, which means that SFI is part of Komvux, is to enable a combination of vocational training and SFI or language training at the same time. I am convinced that the great effort now being made at regional professional places, where there is an opportunity to interact regionally, is a good thing. Even a large municipality like Haninge may find it difficult to arrange these places yourself, because it is a big job. With regional cooperation, this could be even better.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-507	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Isabella Lövin. The application of the EU Water Directive has not really worked as intended. In this Chamber, the situation of Sweden's approximately 2 000 small hydroelectric plants has been debated several times. In addition, some 10 000 plants, such as mills and smaller dams, are also threatened. The county administrative boards have now begun to examine them and require a permit examination of them. Since the process is so extensive and expensive, there is a risk of the dams being removed instead, which can put valuable agricultural land under water and change the landscape both upstream and downstream.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-511	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roland Gustbée, for raising this important issue! The Water Directive is one of the directives that exists at EU level and which obliges all Member States to have good environmental status when it comes to water quality. For coastal areas, there is the Marine Directive, and the Air Directive allows Member States to be criticised for not ensuring, for example, good air in their cities. These are important instruments for us to have a level playing field between countries, and they are the same kind of requirements that apply to all countries. The specific questions raised by Roland Gustbée can be better answered by my colleague, Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog, but in general terms I can say that it is important that we have cultural environments as well.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-513	Madam President, I would like The aim of the WFD is good; we fully agree on that. It is important that we have a good aquatic environment and that we care for our natural resources. But the focus is sometimes on law, for example, if you have applied for the right permit, rather than if you have the best and most suitable facility. That's not good. I wonder whether the government is prepared to come up with proposals to simplify the licensing process, because it is too expensive and costly today.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-515	Madam President, I would like Many hydroelectric power stations and dams have been constructed at a completely different time when this legislation has not been in place and environmental tests have not been carried out when they have been built. It is a challenge and a problem that we must tackle. I can only say that serious work will have to be done to ensure that we have good water status under the EU Water Directive.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-518	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson. We've been on the issue of the lack of teachers, and I thought I'd follow up on that trail. Thankfully, the government is investing in an attractive teaching profession. Wages are increased and time is released from tasks not related to teaching. But much more needs to be done, and school developments should be reversed by attracting more people to become teachers. In my county of Dalarna, Dalarna University, together with the region and the 15 municipalities, has discussed a project called the teacher training contract. A teacher student gets employment at a school and salary while he completes his education. The aim is to bring in more students and provide the necessary skills.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-522	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good and relevant question! As we have discussed before in this House, there is a great shortage of teachers. We need to face it. We need to do this with rapid action and with long-term good measures that strengthen teacher training and the teaching profession. One of the things that needs to be done is to increase flexibility so that employment can be combined with professional training. Several measures are now being taken. The KPU is such a measure, i.e. to be employed as a teacher in a deficiency subject while studying a supplementary educational education. The example from Dalarna is exciting, and we want to take part of it and spread it. That is why I have set a meeting with them to hear about the example. Municipalities and states need to work together and not engage in blame game.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-526	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It is important that we show our appreciation for local initiatives. There must be a high level of ambition, determination and clarity in this. We are all deserving of getting this done in as many good ways as possible. I do not really have a follow-up question, but I can nevertheless ask the following question: can the Government envisage more new approaches to increase flexibility and review the systems?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-529	Madam President, I would like Yes, absolutely! We need to do more things to meet the need for teachers. We want all children, wherever they live in the country, to be met by a competent and qualified teacher. Then we need to work on several things. Let's do several things. Among other things, we create a more attractive subject teacher education and ensure that there is a higher throughput in teacher education – too many drop out. I am absolutely prepared to take on board further good examples.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-533	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson, and it also applies to the lack of teachers. We are at least three speakers who have raised the issue, and that shows how important it is for the future of Swedish schools. We all agree that the basis for a good school and for all students to get a good education is that there are good teachers in all classrooms. Otherwise it is difficult to get quality. The biggest effort the government is making to tackle the teacher shortage is to increase the number of places in the regular teacher training. UKÄ has recently presented an evaluation showing that such an effort rather than leading to more teachers actually leads to more drop-outs. In addition, it takes a long time for teachers who start regular teacher training to become active in the classroom.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-536	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for getting involved in the matter as well. We have known for a long time that we are facing this great shortage of teachers, and we have from day one been working on measures. Part of it is to expand teacher training as the search pressure increases. Some courses have too low search pressure. Some also have too low throughput. We are now taking action against this. There's no way to pull all the teacher trainings over. For example, there is a high throughput and at least two applicants per place. In our initiative is also to expand supplementary educational education, as I said in my previous post, as a way to open up more ways into the teaching profession.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-539	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is gratifying to see that the government has been cautiously in favour of the proposals for the change in supplementary education that we Moderates have put forward. Many people may miss a single score and have difficulty getting in. It is one of the teacher training courses on which it is the highest search print and where not all applicants are admitted.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-542	Madam President, I would like We are constantly making new proposals – as we have done from day one – to meet the lack of teachers that we are in the midst of. It will continue to exist for a long time because nothing was done during the eight years of government, including the Moderates. Now we try to do many of the things that were not done then. I welcome proposals that are supported by several parties.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-544	That concludes Question Time for the week. I would like to thank the participating ministers and Members.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-545	Madam President, audiences, viewers and listeners! The Red-Green feminist government is working on welfare policy in the long term.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-546	Many of you who listen to this debate will surely have memories of news broadcasts about problems in various types of institutions in what we call the welfare sector. You have heard of older people who do not receive the service they are entitled to in various forms of housing, you have heard of children who are ill where they are placed and you have heard of sick people who may sometimes be believed to have been forgotten. Those who work to care for, care for and support children, the sick and the elderly make an amazing contribution, but they do not always get the appreciation they deserve. I believe that many of us have taken a well-functioning welfare sector for granted, and reports of shortcomings may come as a surprise. But flaws have always existed. As staff have been given increased protection through legislative protection and research bans, which mean that employees do not risk problems with the employer to the same extent as before if they reveal shortcomings to a journalist, the picture has been clarified. What family members have seen in the past is now increasingly confirmed by staff. Policy responses to this have been to increase the resources for inspections and training support. It has probably all governments contributed to whatever political color. Madam President, I would like It has become more and more common for private performers to be used to professionally run HVB homes, support homes, various forms of housing for the elderly and people with functional variations and so on. However, no authorities seem to have had a proper overview of the scope of this. It has even been shown that some of these individual activities have been completely unknown to the municipality in which they have been conducted because those placed there have come from other municipalities. It has made it more difficult to review and follow up. This report, Madam President, concerns children and young people who are cared for outside their own home. Everyone seems to agree that a better order is needed. The Government's proposal, which is now being put on the table of the Riksdag, is therefore a legislative proposal that all these activities run by private and private operators should be subject to authorisation. This automatically means that the activities are registered and thus known to those who control. There are also individual activities that are of a more consultative nature, activities that support municipalities' social services in finding suitable family homes and on-call homes. Some of these companies also work with supervision. These activities have also been relatively unknown and run with very different skills, which means that the government has seen a need to introduce permit testing here too. The committee therefore proposes that the Riksdag decide that the activities that the government in its proposal wants to make subject to authorisation should also be so. The report also contains some proposals concerning the relationship between municipalities and county councils. It is about children who are placed in different activities sometimes ending up between the chairs. Responsibilities between municipalities and county councils are not always clear, so no one takes full responsibility. The Government's proposal is therefore that municipalities and county councils should be obliged to enter into an agreement on cooperation between the child. The inspection of care and care can then at least check that the agreement is in place. One very concrete proposal in my opinion is that social services, when they start placing a child outside their own home and also of young people up to 20 years old, should be obliged to inform the county council about this and at the same time remind county councils that they are obliged to offer these children and young people a health survey. It is therefore not a compulsory health examination, but an offer that the county councils should make. Madam President, I would like During the discussion of this issue in the committee, the opposition has pushed through a requirement that institutions and housing equivalent to those now proposed be subject to permit requirements but run by municipalities and county councils should also be subject to the permit requirement. I find it difficult to see the logic of that and the need for that order. The municipal housing and institutions are already known, so the permit requirement is not needed to achieve that goal. How to reconcile the responsibility that municipalities have with a permit requirement is also difficult to understand. For example, how should a municipality act when a private dwelling goes bankrupt or for other reasons chooses to close? The municipality's responsibility cannot end in such a situation, but the municipality must take care of the affected children regardless of the requirement to permit them. In the absence of a permit holder or if a permit is withdrawn, the municipality's responsibility cannot cease. It's obvious. The Green Party, together with the Social Democrats and the Left Party, have a reservation in the report in which we agree with the Government's assessment that it is doubtful whether such interference in municipal self-determination as the opposition is now proposing is compatible with the legislation we otherwise have. I assume that the Law Council will look at this and give comments when and if this becomes a matter that will eventually get there. With that, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 1, rejection of reservations 2 and 3 and otherwise approval of the proposal contained in the report.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-564	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I will primarily address the citizens and the Swedish Democrats, as I believe they have a particular responsibility for ensuring safe and safe care for our children. Today we are debating one of the most important areas we have to deal with: the issue of the security that we, as a society, have promised to give children when their own family can no longer. It is a promise that we must live up to. I sometimes think that we take damn lightly what an amazing country Sweden is. Indeed, it is truly world unity – a building of society based on visions of true democracy, equality and solidarity. Our welfare is based on the idea that we are all equally worth whatever class we belong to and that together we should give each other the opportunity for a good life. It's really something to be proud of. Why am I now preaching about this? Because what we are talking about here today is about class. Children placed often come from poor conditions and not infrequently from a family with a single mother. Our way of taking care of these children is therefore about what human views we have, and when it comes to the bourgeoisie and the Swedish democrats, there is every reason for concern when it comes to human vision. Madam President, I would like No one here has been able to miss the terrible fate of 14-year-old Josefin. A girl who has been placed in 33 different accommodations during her short lifetime. A child who has been torn up over and over again, who has repeatedly been told that no one can handle her, that no one can fight for her, that no one wants to take responsibility. 33 times in 14 years, we've let a child feel that she's all alone. Three out of four of the accommodations that Josefin was placed on were private. Social Services have witnessed how they have been forced to hire health care companies that promised Josefin to receive the care to which she is entitled. But once she is in place, when she is spent as a bag of money, they have terminated their contract – without warning, without any consequences, without having to answer for it. Instead, the bill has been paid by a child. Today, a majority of all private homes are run. Next to dental care, this is one of the most privatised sectors. Of course, many of these owners do a good job, but the system is completely barbaric. It is a system that turns children who live in vulnerability into dollar marks in the eyes of the venture capitalists, a system that runs counter to the whole idea of our common welfare but which the Swedish Democrats and the bourgeoisie love. Madam President, I would like I think it takes a moment for you to think about it in this House. It requires you to step out of your privileged lives for a little while and take on the role that this is about you, that it is your children that I am talking about here today. Imagine how you would have felt if someone had taken care of your child with the promise to do it better than you, but you would have seen it all get worse day by day – so bad that your child no longer wanted to live. Imagine that in Parliament there are people who are going to make laws that will be absolutely life-changing for you and for your child. Imagine the panic when the realization strikes and you understand that these politicians do not have the best interests of your child for their eyes, the panic when you understand that these decision-makers are instead sitting warm and comfortable in the laps of venture capitalists and that they thrive so well there that their greed becomes more important than your child's security. What would you have done then? But now it's not about your children. Nor do their parents belong to strong electoral groups. These are not people who can offer a luxurious and exquisite dinner to buy your goodwill. And this is where your human view becomes so clear. After all, you think it is perfectly reasonable for the prize hunters to fill their treasure chests at the expense of children in vulnerability. That is also why you completely lack credibility when you talk about children's right to safe and safe care. Your policy is, in fact, a threat to our entire well-being. We in the Left Party think that the proposal on which we should vote today is a good one. That is a step in the right direction. Of course, private operators should be subject to authorisation. It is high time that children in community care received the healthcare they need, and it is absolutely crucial that municipalities and county councils work together to make it a reality. But if we do not get the profits out of welfare, we will only continue to put Band-Aids on bleeding wounds, and then it is the bourgeoisie and SD that bear a special responsibility for children like Josefin. We therefore call for approval of the bill as a whole, but we, together with the Social Democrats and the Green Party, reserve ourselves against the proposal for a general permit requirement.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-578	Madam President, I would like We are talking today about those children who can no longer live at home in the family they grew up in. Society has a huge responsibility to go in and give those children the security that every kid deserves. This is an area in which we know that, as a country, we have often failed. That is also why we Christian Democrats, for eight years in government responsible for these areas, both made up some with our history and invested huge resources in trying to strengthen the conditions for a safe future for the children who must be placed in the care of society. We started with open comparisons and by keeping statistics and increasing our knowledge of what these children actually have for life. What chance do we give them? Above all, however, we strengthened children's rights and increased their right to receive support and assistance from their own social security secretary. We gave the responsible authorities the task of providing support and assistance and developing guidelines and programmes for the municipality, which each time bears the responsibility of the authority for examining the family home or HVB home where a child is to be placed. There should be a plan for how that home should be evaluated and what support and help it should get in its hugely tough task. We made sure that what today has been given the web title, and Koll på soc, was started in order for children themselves to be able to search for information about their rights. Where can I turn when I need support and help, when I falter and when the adults who are supposed to be for me are actually not doing what they are supposed to? The matter on which we have to decide today, Madam President, is another part of the work that we started. From the Christian Democrats' side, we are pleased that the current government has carried out this work. It is important that we continue to do everything we can to provide support and assistance to those children who have the greatest needs. We therefore, of course, support the proposal on the obligation of authorisation on which there is agreement in committee as regards activities carried out by another practitioner. However, we believe that it is equally important that there is also a permit requirement for the activities run by local authorities. For the individual child, it should not matter who runs the business. It should be just as obvious that you get safe and good conditions. We should not have to hear about situations in which a private operator has had to close down because it does not meet the criteria, but instead, in the same premises, perhaps even with the same staff or with the staff that the private operator chose not to hire because they did not meet the criteria, continue or start in municipal direction, without transparency or control. That is not acceptable. That is why, Madam President, I am in favour of the committee's proposal and I am pleased that we are taking further steps today for the safety of children.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-586	Madam President, I would like The laws we are about to decide today are about protecting one of the most vulnerable groups of children and young people, namely the children and young people who have had such a tough time in their homes that social services go in and decide that they should be taken care of. Just as Emma Henriksson described earlier, it is a long journey that has been made over the past ten years. A number of proposals have been made and a number of decisions have been taken to provide greater security for these children and young people. These particular proposals come from Håkan Ceders's investigation, which the alliance government set up. I think it is very good that today, in broad agreement, we can support these proposals. There are a number of important details of the proposals. What I want to highlight is that this group of children, who are being taken care of by social services, apart from having had an extremely tough period before the decision is made, also has a worse health situation. They are sicker than other children and have a worse dental status. They have simply fallen through the fantastic welfare, healthcare and health control network we have. There was a survey of 120 children who had been taken care of and went through them very carefully. Every other child received a referral to a specialist for further investigation of a disease. One sixth of the children had extensive dental problems, which no one had discovered. We are now going in with legislation and saying that this is not acceptable. In a situation where society enters and takes care of a child, you should ensure that at least that child is guaranteed to be healthy and receive the health care to which all other children are entitled. But it is only an important part of this legislative package. There is a big difference in Swedish politics in how we view welfare. We are all in full agreement that we need to tighten up the requirements for private operators. There is much to do, and these are very important steps. But what we disagree about is whether to make the same demands on the units run by municipalities and in some cases county councils. As far as the Alliance is concerned, we think it is reasonable to make exactly the same demands on municipal and private performers. That should be very tough and tough demands, Madam President. On the left, however, we are not prepared to make the same demands on municipal operators, and that is incomprehensible to me. We have had a number of cases where there has been tough supervision of the private operator, which has forced him to close down. That is quite right; you should put down in a situation where you do not have an activity that meets the requirements in terms of premises, staff training and so on. However, children are then transferred to municipal activities, which in some cases are even carried out in the same local but with less and less educated staff. But then it's the municipality that drives it, and then you don't have to make any demands-- then all is peace and joy. There's the big difference. You are surprised, Madam President, when you listen to the Left Party and May Karlsson, who stand up here and spend four of their six minutes describing how terribly bad things work on the private side, where we all agree that the demands should be tightened up. However, she does not mention in one word the problems that often exist in the municipal executives. There, Madam President, there is the line in Swedish politics between the Alliance, which is prepared to impose very tough quality requirements on everyone, whether it is a municipal or a private operator, and the left side, which would prefer to shut down private activities and, above all, is not prepared to impose any quality requirements or ensure that there is stricter supervision. There's the difference. That is why, Madam President, I think it is so good that the majority of the Committee on Social Affairs has actually put forward a proposal for an announcement to the government calling for a new proposal to come back with the same tough demands on private and public operators. Madam President, I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-597	Madam President, I would like Many people have already been up here and have spoken creditably about what the report contains. Being last out often means that you have to do something of a summary, or a repeat. It is truly gratifying that we are in broad agreement and that we all see that requirements need to be tightened up and quality increased. The parts that we do not agree on have exactly my alliance colleague Anders W Jonsson well explained, so I will not repeat that. We know that children who have had society as parents far more often than other children end up in various forms of abuse and risk use. Suicide is more common, as is dependency on support. In March 2013, the National Board of Health and Welfare published a study on care and care for children. This study showed that the mortality rate is almost five times higher for placed children and young people. Self - injury is ten times more common, and the use of psychopharmaceuticals is between 15 and 19 times higher than for other children and young people in the general population. Among the 17-year-olds who were placed before they were ten, only six out of ten are eligible for upper secondary school. One in ten young adults with financial assistance has previously been placed in child care and youth care. Madam President, I would like Many placed children have also neglected health. They do so many times because of lack of care. They have not been allowed to go to routine health check-ups. For many children, health care is inadequate before placement and unfortunately also during placement. Chronic diseases such as eczema and asthma have been left untreated, and health examinations of the BVC and dentistry may be more or less non-existent. Children need vaccinations as well as visual and hearing examinations. Many times there are also gaps in documentation regarding children's health. That is why it is a good thing that we now finally have a proposal on the table that all children placed on the table should have a health check, after all the urgent nagging and lots of motions, proposals and articles from us Liberals. Another thing, which we will continue to talk about as much, is the LVU investigation, which is still being prepared in the Government Office, as it is so beautifully called. The study's proposal would strengthen the perspective of children's rights and increase legal certainty for children placed in society's care, especially for those in need of forced care. We are a majority in Parliament who want the Convention on the Rights of the Child to become law. It is time, to say the least, to start talking about children as own right holders – children with their own rights, as subjects and not objects. We should also be there for the children for whom we as a society have taken responsibility. I support the committee's proposal.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-606	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by requesting the approval of reservation 6. We often talk about culture as the force of change and that culture stimulates and develops democracy, us as people and society as well as it brings about change in us as individuals and society. In this connection, I would like to read a poem by a high school student. She wrote: Imagine being able to change War Starving Injustice Myself People have always written, created, performed music and portrayed experiences and thoughts, which she is proof of. The Culture for All report by the Committee on Culture shows the strength of culture and art, in which we Social Democrats see it as crucial that it is about cultivating a free and voluntary cultural life and asserting freedom of expression, not using touchsticks. There are many good examples around the country where culture provides health – in retirement homes where singing, music and choirs give a richer life or during a stroke or depression where culture speaks to people who have suffered various traumas in a way that medicines cannot do. In Culture, the government already has an announcement, and work is in progress; hence the reservation that we have with the Green Party. After all, there is a fundamental consensus on the value of a strongly publicly funded cultural life throughout the country. There is also a fundamental consensus on cultural policy objectives, which is important. I would like to emphasise that we in the committee, the government and as social democrats see this as a strength. Today, funding goes to culture by the state spending 43%, municipalities 42 and regions 15%. This requires dialogue, cooperation and respect at all levels. The cultural cooperation model will now be reviewed. As a member of the Committee on Culture and also chairman of the Committee on Culture and Leisure in Sweden's municipalities and county councils, I expect close cooperation between us to develop the model. If we open up culture to more people, it will provide increased opportunities for education and learning. Then you can understand your time and history better. Culture bears democracy and open society. Culture is a cohesive kitt in society, especially in troubled times. It is important to develop curiosity about each other's cultural expressions, i.e. to develop cultural heritage in a broad sense. The government has invested in culture in several areas. The Alliance removed the free entrance at the museums, and we reintroduced it. It was a success. Now the projects start – 27 projects covering everything from music theatre, storytelling, hip-hop, art exhibitions and sports collaborations to poetry, film and bitch advice. Finally, the strength of culture is to be able to challenge, to develop ourselves and with others – with culture for more, that is, Culture for all, as this report is called.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-617	Madam President, I would like This report is called Culture for All. When I think about the title, I think about how best to reach the most people, especially those who are not always as easy to reach or who are not able to reach the cultural offering themselves. It is possible to reach all children and young people in Sweden by opening up opportunities and creating opportunities for cultural workers to enter school. This was seen by the Alliance government when they introduced Creative School – a very successful reform that has given teachers in dance, drama, picture and music more assignments and given students a chance to practice, try and get to know a broader cultural range. It is good that the current government has chosen to continue this effort and also include preschool. We would have liked to see it in high school, where the choice of courses for students does not mean more lessons in pictures or music. Another important reform in 2009 was the decision on a new model for the allocation of State resources to regional and local cultural activities. In the Bill Time for Culture, an economic distribution model was developed that encourages diversity. This model of cultural cooperation means that regional cultural plans are developed in collaboration with all stakeholders. Power is transferred to county councils and regions. The funds are then distributed by the National Council for Culture, and the responsibility of the state is clearly defined by the objectives of cultural policy. An evaluation of the model has taken place in 2015. Very positive signals have emerged, but also views on areas of improvement. These include, for example, the actual distribution of grants when it comes to the promotion of new activities or new entrants. It is positive that the government has chosen to retain the cultural cooperation model. But we believe that the next step should be greater decentralisation, i.e. moving performances from Stockholm and putting them out in the country, for example. We believe that the state institutions should be given greater responsibility for the whole country and that the National Council for Culture should be given the task of identifying how. A way to reach more people can also be about ensuring that culture can operate across the country and benefit more people. Then I am thinking of a reform introduced by the government, namely free entry, which we heard the representatives of the Social Democrats talking about. Today, approximately 25 million visits are made to museums around Sweden. The government has chosen to prioritise museums by adding SEK 100 million on free admission preferably in Stockholm, to the 8 million visits made there. Of course, the number of visitors has increased, so it is if you do something for free. But this has also distorted competition for those who themselves have invested, invested or borrowed capital and employed staff. Many of these are cultural workers. I would say: Culture for all is for the Social Democrats culture for some. We who live in Stockholm and can get to the museums also get the bonus to go in for free. For us, it is also about ensuring that companies can operate and that all creative industries run around the country have the conditions and the opportunity to actually live on their business and thus contribute to a rich cultural life. It can be about private music schools, museums, art halls, glass blowers, adventure parks, events, outdoor activities, restaurant business and more. What the government misses by unilaterally subsidising certain activities are all the initiatives taken in other activities to make culture accessible to more people. There are several examples. The elderly can be reached by music, dance and art exhibitions where they have the opportunity to participate: in their own accommodation. And you reach people who don't often take part in the cultural offering on their home grounds in their residential areas. These initiatives are important and should be taken into account, because together we can do much more. Then the form of operation, the fact that it is private entrepreneurs, must not prevent the public from also supporting them through collaboration or direct funding. Under the alliance government, the Arts Council has allocated support to culture for the elderly. Today, there are no such funds to be allocated. The Swedish Arts Council has been tasked with increasing knowledge in the field of culture and health. It was also tasked in 2011 to undertake a comprehensive review of the ongoing work on culture for the elderly in healthcare and care. Culture and health belong together. People who participate in cultural life have better health. The Culture Council has therefore had the means to promote the participation of older people in cultural life. Madam President, I would like There is neurological research that shows very good results when cultural activities are included in the treatment. In particular, it concerns people who suffer from burnout, mental illness and dementia. During the alliance government, cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Social Affairs on culture was also initiated as an aid in preventing and shortening sick leave. Cultural experiences and social interaction with others, together with adequate medical treatment, have proved to be a very successful form of treatment. There is research from, among others, Gothenburg, Lund and Uppsala University that shows the healing and developing power of culture. There are many good examples in healthcare. For example, people with dementia can be reached through singing. We believe that the government should evaluate the results of the alliance government's efforts and, on the basis of this, make a proposal on how the work can be developed. Today there is an announcement – one more, I will say, because that is the second announcement in this area – that the government should strengthen cooperation between the fields of culture and welfare. We want to see continued research and implementation of the good results that previous research has already shown. Then it is not enough, as the government does, to sit back and only refer to the Swedish Arts Council's website. The participation of older people in cultural life creates the conditions for more people to live a rich cultural life. We can contribute there. I am in favour of reservation 1 and otherwise of the committee's proposal in the report.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-634	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your post, Isabella Hökmark! You mention the cultural cooperation model, which the Alliance introduced and which we now continue to work with. It must be developed in different ways but in dialogue and consultation with all levels. Then I have a question for you, Isabella Hökmark. How come you are talking about increased decentralisation in order to have more resources while in your budget you are reducing by 112 510 000? It rhymes a little bit. I have a second question I want to ask you. You're talking about culture and health. I agree that it goes hand in hand. It's important. This is also shown by research. In 2009, you went in with a pilot project on culture on recipes. The reality today is that it is being carried out around the country. Then my question is: is it a new pilot project you want, or what do you mean?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-637	Madam President, I would like The regional cultural cooperation model has been evaluated – you look at it. But we think it is important, as I said earlier, that it should be further decentralised. For example, there are many who cannot come to Stockholm and who cannot take part in the selection that is available at the Dramatic Theatre and at the Opera. Then we think we need to be able to decentralise it further and get performances in the country, so that more people can take part in this. That is the most important thing in this model: that more people take part in this and that more people are involved in the process. Turns out it's been very successful. Many feel much more involved and can decide how the grants should be distributed abroad. That's very good. When it comes to culture and health, I think it is the government that is responsible for the answer. You do not have the means to distribute. The Alliance government had the means to distribute. Good projects were developed to help people with mental illness or dementia. You don't have this. Therefore, my question to you is: Why do you not have such bets? It's kind of weird. The Social Democrats would rather invest in healthy and healthy Stockholmers who go to museums – there you can spend money – or in a music school or something. But when it comes to the elderly and the sick, there is no money for the important research, which has proved to be so good.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-640	Madam President, I would like I can only say that in the country and in reality it does not look like Isabella Hökmark, the Moderates, now says. There are actually projects around the country where you work with culture to provide health. These are unimagined areas. When it comes to the cultural cooperation model, you have not answered the question. How come you're talking about decentralisation while you're spending less money in the cultural co-operation model? It rhymes very badly, and that's why I don't really understand what it is you want to say. If you want to improve and develop the model of cultural cooperation with regions, municipalities and the state, which I hope, they must also be given the resources to do so. It cannot be reduced, as you have done in your budget.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-642	Madam President, I would like The addition to the model of cooperation grew all the time when it was an alliance government, and it is not only the state that gives money but also municipalities and regions. We want culture to reach out more in the country, and there too you owe us the answer as to how we should do it. You are constantly leaving cultural workers and all private initiatives in the country by raising taxes and directing subsidies to the public. The ability to run a business is reduced by this government.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-644	Madam President, I would like What is a society after all? What are its foundations, building blocks and kitts? Society is an ever-present concept, but are we aware of what it means? Taste the word: community. In a cultural debate like this, the concept is brought up to date and filled with real meaning. The textbook The young citizen gives us an answer: Those who hold together form a society – – – – The word society means just stick together. – – The whole of our country, the Swedish state, is also a society, because we Swedes stick together and help each other. The members of society in the state and the municipality are often called citizens. This leads us to the question of a cultural cannon in school education. In this connection, Madam President, I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 3 on cultural cannons and the rejection of the other reservations contained in the report. The future of adult and collective cohesion is shaped in school, and knowledge lays the foundation for cultural understanding. In order for the entire people of Sweden to have an understanding and understanding of Sweden's cultural heritage and identity, the Swedish Democrats advocate the introduction of a national cultural cannon in the country's schools, a list of the country's most important cultural works with particular significance in Swedish history and the image of Sweden. The Swedish pearls of musical works, literature, film, art, theatre and other cultural forms are selected by a broad committee with as broad a democratic foundation as possible. For example, the relevant authorities, the profession, politicians, civil society, citizens and other stakeholders may be involved. In our proposal, this canon would be compiled under the National Council for Culture and from there coordinated with the education system. The list is conveyed in school education and forms a common reference base between immigrants and Swedes, young and old and builds national community and stability. The importance of the introduction of a national cultural cannon is now great, partly in view of an increased distance between young and old, and partly in view of the fact that so many immigrants have arrived in Sweden in recent years without a qualitative cultural introduction. As Moderates in Örebro put it, Swedish society should show what we have to offer. A loving pride in what has been created in our country creates secure individuals. Twelve years ago, the Danish Government decided to allow seven committees to begin work on producing proposals for works that could be considered a particularly valuable part of the Danish cultural heritage and together form a Danish cultural cannon. The primary purpose of this canon was to serve as an introduction to the Danish cultural heritage and also to stimulate thought and debate on art and cultural issues. The project contributed strongly to invigorating the Danish cultural debate and put cultural policy on the political and media agenda. Despite the strong feelings that initially surrounded the project, the finished cultural cannon was then well received in large parts of Danish society. I am convinced that there is also, or perhaps in particular, a strong need in Sweden for a broader and in-depth discussion on subjects such as culture, history and identity. In a split country and in a time of rootlessness, questioning the very existence and social fragmentation of Swedish culture, we believe that there would be great value in encouraging greater reflection on cultural heritage and the elements that can be considered as particularly valuable or significant for the formation of Swedish identity. We therefore propose that the Riksdag announce to the Government what is stated in the motion to have a Swedish cultural cannon produced with inspiration from Denmark. Madam President, I would like Denmark has now launched some of the further development of the canon of culture into a so-called Danmarkskanon, an educational project designed to create awareness of the historical and cultural values of society, traditions and events that greatly shaped Denmark and the Danish people. Former Minister of Culture Bertel Haarder put it this way: It will create debate and awareness of our values, not because we are better than others, but in order for us to know ourselves and our conditions. The public has had to submit proposals for intangible values that have historical and popular roots in Danish society. More than 2 000 proposals were received, of which 20 were selected and put to the vote. The markers that have won the most popular support are, for example, the welfare model, freedom, trust, equality, Danish language, society and Christian heritage – cultural markers that we in the Nordic countries share and which are as fundamental in our country as in Denmark. Madam President, I would like If Denmark can do it, we can do it. To return to The Young Citizen: We are in the Nordic region five countries but in many ways a cultural sphere. Languages are related, and science, art, literature and folk education show similar conditions and goals. We are committed to the same principles of freedom, trust and democracy. Therefore, we can be more inspired by each other, not least on the issue of cultural cannons, thereby providing Swedish schools with a tool for cultural enlightenment and introduction. Finally, I would like to welcome the committee's announcement to build on the experience of past efforts on culture and health in order to develop ongoing work and strengthen cooperation between culture and the core areas of welfare. Weaving culture into more areas of society and highlighting its importance in health care is something our party is driving through the creation of care for the elderly and Culture in health care.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-658	Madam President, I would like Aron Emilsson from the Swedish Democrats – what to say? You're talking about society, about culture, history and identity. But such things have no limits. Culture has no limits and cannot be limited by putting it on a list. A cannon, as you call it, is protectionism and nothing that stimulates the desire of children. In a future exercise, you want only Swedish citizens to have access to libraries – what is this if not a way to divide us people? It is dehumanisation and the impossibility of integration.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-660	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, or the statement! I note that the Committee's position, which is also supported by the Social Democrats, opens with the importance of a wider debate on history, culture and identity. Marie-Louise-Rönnmark Rönnmark now says that this has no borders, but there is something that unites the Swedish people, I suppose. Of course, the Social Democrats in Denmark were also critical of a cultural cannon at the beginning. Then, however, it has been adopted. On the other side of the sound, they make a completely different assessment from the Swedish Social Democrats and believe that this has become an important discussion and canon to discuss what is Danish and Danish culture, both in a progressive direction and for a cultural heritage conservation purpose. Is there a test map and palette to use for teachers and students in contrast to a continuous conversation that we have about these questions? Can't one of them be a springboard to conduct a lively and vital conversation about what Swedish culture, identity and history are? Why are you afraid of that? We've done that all through history. And it is a lack of history teaching that creates authoritarian regimes or the distortion of history, not increased history teaching and cultural teaching. Do the Social Democrats think that education and enlightenment can also be negative?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-665	Mr President, I would like to I can only say that distorted facts about what this means will not develop education, education and us as human beings, but it is about locking up and deciding who belongs to one side or the other. For me, art is something that's going on. Art changes over time and is also encounters between people. With the proposals that you are putting forward together with future motions, only Swedish citizens will have access to libraries. Is it supposed to be passport control when you go in, or how do you plan to do that? For me, this is not culture. It's not to bring our story to life. It is not finding the identity that unites us, but it stands for something quite different.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-669	Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats probably think that today it is a big problem and a strong communist, protectionist and isolationist trait that we study Swedish literary classics in school. It is, of course, about expanding the form of teaching that already exists today to include film, music, art, theatre and other cultural markers. In what way do Swedish children and young people today lock up reading Swedish literature classics, for example?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-670	Mr President, I would like to Culture for all is not just the name of the report that we have to deal with today. The concept of culture for all also very well sums up the red-green cultural policy, where everyone really means everyone. Regardless of your background, origin, place of residence, age, economic conditions or disabilities, you should be guaranteed access to culture and opportunities to cultivate and further develop your own inherent creativity. Access to culture is simply a prerequisite for us people to feel good. Culture is the fourth area of prosperity, and cultural policy should therefore be given priority. Since the turn of the government, we have seen very positive developments in cultural policy. There are a number of motions in the report that the committee has dealt with that have an interesting approach, but we can see that these are aspects that the government is already working on in various ways, so all the motions can be rejected. However, it is not the case that there is a consensus on culture for everyone, as we heard here in previous replicas. Unfortunately, it is far from consensus, as the Swedish Democrats talk unilaterally about prioritising Swedish cultural expressions by prioritising international influences, contemporary culture or modern art. It's not a culture for everyone. The Moderates, who say that they want to prioritise access to culture for children and young people, do not do so in order to really have access to culture for children and young people on an increased scale. It is an argument for legitimising the desire to reduce resources to other groups. Of course, children and young people should have good access to culture, as well as adults and older people, if we are to live up to the concept of culture for all. However, the great struggle for resources in cultural policy, I would say, is about the urban and country perspective. In Sweden we have had a long period of strong urbanisation. Sweden also stands out in international comparisons. Sweden has had the strongest urbanisation over a long period of time. Of course, we cannot deny anyone to move from the countryside into the city, but we must be very aware of the great challenges that arise for all those people who want to remain in a beloved home country. Population reduction means that you have less resources and less opportunities to have access to both public and commercial services, including, of course, culture. During the year of the alliance government, we had a very negative development with library branches that were closed down. Every tenth library branch around the country was closed down for just a few years. The commercial forces, of course, also seem inexorably in the sense that, with a reduced audience base, it is difficult to pursue a business further. That is why we need a strong cultural policy that looks after culture throughout the country and ensures that there is also access to culture in those places where commercial operators have withdrawn and no longer exist. In the report, the Committee on Culture highlights how the government is working purposefully to strengthen culture throughout the country. We now have state support for the municipal music and culture school. We've increased the funding for public gatherings. We have new projects taking place and creative locations. Above all, we now also have increased resources for the cultural cooperation model. When it comes to local and regional culture, we must, above all, act from the state side in such a way that there is financial resources, but otherwise let local and regional actors decide how the resources are to be used. As far as the culture of care is concerned, research clearly shows, as has been mentioned several times before, that culture is also an important part of a healing process and that access to culture can be complementary to medical treatment. This is now recognised by many county councils and regions. And culture on recipes can be found in Skåne, Jönköping, Sörmland, Västerbotten and Uppsala. The positive experiences are now being disseminated at seminars and conferences. There is also the government involved. At the same time, the Swedish Democrats and the Alliance want to address an announcement to the government about working on an issue that they are already working on. I request the approval of reservation 6.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-680	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by supporting the reservations of all the Centre Party and the Alliance, but I choose to accept only reservation No 2. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party strives that everyone, regardless of their place of residence, background, functional condition or life situation, will have the opportunity to participate in a cultural life that includes both professional culture and amateur creation. This is how we get a broad cultural life that includes new digital cultural expressions as well as more traditional cultural forms, because we all know that the commitment that thrives in cultural life and civil society is an important kitt that connects society both in general and more locally. I am thinking, for example, of the craft days and dance evenings to live music at Lännagården, the district farm, at home in the neighbouring village of Hysingsvik. Sweden also has a global leadership position in terms of creativity, and that is something we should be proud of and protect and develop. We have successful creative and cultural industries in Sweden with great growth potential. Increased interaction on cultural issues between politics, business and committed enthusiasts can create more opportunities for jobs and local and regional development. It increases attractiveness and strengthens both tourism and knowledge development, while at the same time creating new export successes. One way of creating continued interest in, and at the same time strengthening, our cultural life, both nationally and internationally, would be to establish a national Capital of Culture year. Umeå was the European Capital of Culture 2014, European Capital of Culture. It put Umeå and the entire region, yes, the whole of Sweden, on the European cultural map. How can we build on this? The idea of a national Capital of Culture year already exists in the UK. It sought to further work on the success of Liverpool as the European Capital of Culture in 2008. It was a success that was also evident in the social and economic development of the region. It was then decided every four years to allow a city in Britain to become a national capital of culture, a UK City of Culture. It was precisely to allow culture to continue to create development and at the same time to develop culture. The Center Party's idea of a national Capital of Culture year is that a Swedish city gets the status of being a national Capital of Culture every two years – precisely to allow culture to create development and at the same time develop culture and reach even more. Then smaller cities and towns can also get attention and a chance to show off and especially develop their cultural life. We know that a rich cultural life helps to create an attractive environment to live and work in. It also creates better conditions for local and regional development. Setting up a national Capital of Culture in Sweden would highlight exciting cultural experiences across the country, as Sweden is a sandwich table with a wide range of different cultural experiences. At the same time, there is great value in highlighting both large and smaller cities in the spotlight of culture. Cities such as Säffle, Haparanda and Lidköping would have the opportunity to show off and develop their cultural life even more and give more opportunities to meet the culture. In addition, several of our national cultural actors would have reason to go abroad. Is it not necessary to do something of national interest in Stockholm? Instead, we need to see the opportunities and potential of the whole of Sweden. For example, Dalhalla could become the national summer scene for the Royal Opera. It must be a perfect setting for the Royal Opera during a summer month. I am convinced that both Sweden and the art of opera would benefit from it. Not least, it would attract international interest. The mission as a national capital of culture would thus give a boost to society while contributing to tolerance, entrepreneurship and local and regional development. In addition, it would strengthen Sweden on the international cultural map. Mr President, I would like to In short, there is potential throughout the country, and there is considerable competence in the field of culture across the country. At the same time, a great deal of national expertise today lies in big cities, and most of all in our capital city. As I said earlier, a lot of national interest does not have to be done in Stockholm, does it? What I want to point out is that we are missing a lot of talent and creativity in the country that should benefit more people. This is what we in the Center Party want to change. In order for more people to be able to take part in, participate in and develop culture, we should find a new model – a model where we highlight excellence where it is located in the country. As I see it, this should be done in collaboration between the regions and the state through a new model of national cultural policy. Here we need to build on the ideas that have made the cultural cooperation model so successful. At the same time, the state institutions must take greater responsibility for the whole country. This is something that the National Council for Culture should be given the task of developing a basis for how it should be implemented. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is becoming an increasingly multicultural country, creating many new fantastic opportunities. Culture also strengthens self-confidence and makes more people take advantage of freedom of expression. This in turn strengthens participation and democracy in our society. Culture and free society give us the opportunity to understand ourselves and others better. With creativity we grow both as individuals and as a society. In order for more people to get new and wider cultural impressions, we in the Center Party want to spread and develop our cultural life also through international contacts. This can be done through cooperation with town twinnings and with increased activity in the field of culture through our embassies and consulates but also through direct exchange between active cultural practitioners. With digital technology, much culture and knowledge has become more accessible to many more. It has become easier to spread culture, and the opportunity for participation is now greater than ever. This is seen not least with broad cultural forms such as computer games, the Swedish music that is spread and appreciated in large parts of the world and the opportunity to see international performances at the community yard at home in the village. The technological developments we are in the midst of give more opportunity to find an expression that suits them. It also creates companies, jobs and export income. The opportunity to take part in and create culture by itself through digital technology must be taken into account. We can't afford to stand side by side. We have creative entrepreneurship that engages many people, and we do not know today what new cultural expressions will emerge as technology continues to develop. Mr President, I would like to In the Center Party we see the value of culture, because culture has an obvious value in itself. We also see the value of the positive effects, for each individual and for society, with which culture contributes. In the Center Party, we therefore strive to ensure that everyone regardless of their place of residence, background, functional condition or life situation has the opportunity to participate in a cultural life that includes both professional culture and amateurs' creation. For the Center Party, it is important that everyone should have the opportunity to develop no matter where in the country they live.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-702	Mr President, I would like to When I hear Per Lodenius' speech, I think about what party's policy is Per Lodenius talking about. Obviously it is not the Center Party's, for the Center Party is the party that is going forward with the absolutely weakest cultural policy. The Center Party wants to cut more than SEK 600 million in cultural policy, and the Center Party is moving hard towards the model of cultural cooperation and wants to cut 75 million there, i.e. on culture that will come out in our regions. In a joint reservation with the other alliance parties, the Center Party states that it is positive about the cultural cooperation model and wants to develop it. At the same time, resources are being cut back. It's deeply dishonest, I think. The Centre Party is happy to talk about local politics. Why, then, is the Centre Party conducting a centralised policy of cutting back on culture?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-705	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party is not cutting back, but we are not raising the funding in the same way as the Green Party does. This is because the Center Party takes greater financial responsibility than the government does in its budget. What we are also not doing is raising taxes in the way that the Green Party and the other government are doing. These tax increases also hit the cultural area hard. These are increased employers' contributions – doubled for young people – with over 2 billion in the cultural and leisure sectors. It hits rural entrepreneurs and young people in rural and small towns. The reason is that one should be able to provide state support to the state museums in Stockholm. VAT is increased in cinemas, which has led to over 80 cinemas having deregistered as cinemas since the turn of the year. In addition, several cinemas have raised ticket prices due to the increase in VAT and the increase in employers' contributions. After just a month, Niclas Malmberg wrote in the newspaper that nothing had happened and that no effect was seen. But now, after two months, we see effects. What kind of cultural policy is it that the Green Party is pushing? Niclas Malmberg was involved in developing Culture – the fourth welfare area that was to become the Green Party's cultural programme. Is this what's happening now? Are you in the process of implementing a ban on advertising in public transport, of clearer directives and requirements for cultural institutions in terms of quantified diversity objectives and so on? Is it the Green Party's cultural policy?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-709	Mr President, I would like to I think everyone else understands the difference between them, but Per Lodenius has always found it difficult to distinguish between them. Let us begin with the policy of the Green Party. I was part of a working group that had several seminars with cultural workers around the country. More than a hundred committed cultural workers were involved in putting together proposals that we put together for the Green Party's Party Executive, which then took a position on what proposals we could make politics out of. The policy of the Green Party is the policy pursued by the government. It's the policy of the Green Party. If we go to the policy of the Center Party, Per Lodenius has the same difficulties We heard a speech that I believe Per Lodenius may have held a centre meeting to try to persuade the Center to start running a cultural policy worthy of the name. But when he failed to do so, he gave the speech here instead. If we look at the movements in the Center, we see that they are very negative in cultural policy. We see representatives of the Youth League of the Centers saying that they want to stop all cultural support. The only small cultural support that the Center's youth federation can imagine should remain is a debutante support. If the debutante does not become commercially viable, it should also be removed. The Center Youth League even speaks in terms of cultural support being as mossy as yesterday's pizza. I would like to say that what is obviously as mossy as yesterday's pizza is the cultural policy of the Centre Party. I believe that Per Lodenius agrees with me on this matter in his heart and heart, and I wish him every success in getting the Center to start pursuing a cultural policy worthy of the name in the future.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-715	Mr President, I would like to Repeating quotes in the wrong way, as Niclas Malmberg has also done in the past, in debate articles, does not mean that they are true. Yes, the Centre Party Youth League has a slightly different cultural policy than the Center Party. The Youth League of the Centres is an independent organisation that runs its own policy. I run the policy of the Center Party, which is adopted at our party meetings. I wonder how much of the cultural policy has been adopted in the Green Party's voices. I haven't found anything at all. On the other hand, in connection with the draft of the so-called cultural programme, Niclas Malmberg has said on television – it is also written – and now I quote literally: Then there are other things that we need to work on in the longer term. I interpret this as the implementation of the programme. I asked the Minister for Culture a question about this during the budget debate, and she said that these points never have and never will be implemented. Unfortunately, I have not been able to produce this exactly word for word, but she was very upset and clear that the programme has never been implemented and will never be implemented. Mr President, the question must hang in the air: what cultural policy is it really that the Green Party is running? There is no party line on the cultural programme. No such thing has been adopted, as I have seen, nor has Niclas Malmberg been able to show it in party meetings or in other transparent ways. Or is this something that is just being discussed behind closed doors? In the Center Party we are discussing this openly. We are an open party, and we have discussed the culture of every party's voice. We have a clear cultural programme dealing with culture throughout the country.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-722	Mr President, I would like to Per Lodenius of the Center Party! I embrace you and your thoughts. But I'm not embracing having a national capital of culture. I myself was responsible for Umeå, which was the European Capital of Culture, and know what an enormous asset it is. A deposit gave four crowns back when you counted afterwards. Then tourism was not included. In 2013, we had SEK 1.4 billion, which then increased by 25 to 27 per cent in 2015 and 2016. That's a lot of money. If I were Per Lodenius, I would certainly see to it that the Social Democracy, the Green Party and the Left Party go arm-on and increase the budget. This is what we must fight for. I just want to give a little picture of culture, which is international. We are big around us, and the state must build infrastructure in order for us to continue to be large. I can give you an example: Refused, which received the government's music export price. It's an Umeå band that was reunited. They sold out their first performance at the reunion in San Francisco – 350,000 tickets to a performance. That's what you're They then continued to Asia, where they only performed a few shows. Building the infrastructure is an asset for the exporting country.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-728	Mr President, I would like to I didn't quite get it if there was a question. I agree that the music export price, which the government gives, is good encouragement and clearly shows what we are doing in Sweden. I also said that we have great export successes and very internationally viable culture. What I want to show is how this can be spread across the country in different ways. National Capital of Culture year is not about the same magnitude, size and investments as in Umeå. This is about a more national level. Umeå was a European Capital of Culture, where there was a lot of support and links in Europe and also cooperation with previous Capitals of Culture, also during the same year. This is a national initiative. In this way we aim the culture lantern at what is happening in the country in different ways. We allow national and other institutions to show opportunities in the country. Within the Center Party, we still know that a national Capital of Culture year is one of several different initiatives and opportunities that exist.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-733	Mr President, I would like to Now I'm going to go into the next post. Per Lodenius of the Center Party! You said in your previous line-up with the Green Party that the Center Party has a greater responsibility than we do and that's why you cut the budget. It rhymes very badly. I was hoping we could go arm hook. If there's anything we're going to do, it's going to be going to finance and all the other departments and saying: Without art and culture, we can't develop the country. Unfortunately, I do not believe in the suggestion that we should have a national capital of culture. On the other hand, I think it is important that we encourage and build infrastructures and show, with the strength of action, that we are prepared to stand up for art and culture, including in the case of wallets. We are not going to sit on our wallets, but we are going to make sure to lift it up and support the art and culture of the whole country.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-737	Mr President, I would like to Marie-Louise-Rönnmark Rönnmark of the Social Democrats! It also depends on what you call it and who should sit and hold the money. We in the Center Party do not believe that the state alone is the one who is good and who should fertilize with money over the country. We believe in the opportunities and development potential of every person and every individual, in the municipalities but also among entrepreneurs and others. You talked about savings, but it's about us having lower funding. This is because we have not increased the appropriations in the way that the government has done compared to the 2016 budget. It's also a way of looking at it. I will take this clearly, calmly and educationally. We in the Center Party want greater financial responsibility than what we see in the government budget. Fiscal policy believes we need to create shelters in good times for future declines. However, instead of doing so, the current government, as we see it, is now choosing to let public finances go in deficit next year. Instead, the centre party for e strikes a budget that is in balance already this year. Then surpluses will be achieved in the following years. We save 11 billion more than the government for 2017. We don't have as much expenses. In the Center Party we are clear that we see the potential throughout Sweden and the importance of the whole country developing. This is what we work for in our budget. This means that we do not have the increases and taxes that the government is now implementing and which also affect the cultural area. It is about employers' contributions that double for young people, it is about the increase in VAT in the cinema and so on. These are the things that hit rural businesses and young people in rural and small towns, not least in cultural and leisure activities, in large parts. It is about people getting less money to choose for themselves how they want to use their resources, for example for culture in the country. In this way, we have a stronger budget for culture, because we believe in every human being and in the culture of the whole country, not just on free admission to museums in the City of Stockholm.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-745	Mr President, I would like to When I was a child, it was through school that I was able to experience and create culture. The municipal music school came to the class and taught everyone to play block flute. The free theatre groups came to the school gymnasium and played theatre. I remember it as captivating when it happened. Still, I never went on my own to any major institution to experience theatre or music. I also remember how boring, or rather intolerable, I thought it was to be forced to read Selma Lagerlöf Nils Holgersson's wonderful journey through Sweden. But thank God there was a school librarian who managed to attract me to the world of books on my terms. I already had a political interest at the time, and I was curious about my origins. So when I got Monica Zak's books in my hand, I was stuck. I haven't read or seen all the classics, and that sometimes and in some contexts made me feel alienated. It can be embarrassing. But then I think a little bit and get rid of that shame because I also note that what does not speak to me and what does not represent me is the problem. That's what shuts out many of us from culture. For culture to be for everyone, it must also reflect society and all of us. It must also be physically accessible. Literature or culture cannon is not the way forward. For my part, it has been the hip-hop, cartoon Mafalda Mafalda, Monica Zak, America Vera-Zavala-Zavala and Liv Strömquist who have been the way to music, to reading, to the Dramatic – to culture. They are the ones who have reflected and raised what has been relevant to me. Unfortunately, we see that the cultural institutions are sluggish when it comes to broader recruitment at all levels. Of course, it affects the range, who is portrayed, who is portrayed and who will be interested in taking part in it. Our relationship with culture is inherited. I am aware that I do not take my children to theatre or classical music concerts, because I myself have not had that habit. But when possible we go to concerts with Linda Pira or Oskar Linnros, and we often go to the movies. However, I have read books to them since they were born, both in Spanish and in Swedish, because I knew that it would have a bearing on their knowledge acquisition. I can ask my children to read a book just to be fascinated by their ease of devouring a book in a way that I still cannot, even though I enjoy reading. Culture plays a central role in a democratic society. Through culture, different groups and individuals can express their life choices. Cultural policy is therefore an important tool in defending human rights and the equal value of all people. That's why it has to be for everyone. It is therefore important to lower the thresholds through free entrances and by reducing fees to the cultural school and by upgrading the aesthetic subjects in school. That is why we should also acknowledge different forms of expression and give people the opportunity to take part in them. Here I think the City of Stockholm has made an exciting journey from having had a hard, absurd and undemocratic zero tolerance to graffiti to today offering several open walls, where the artworks vary several times every day. There are different artists, and the audience gets to see this completely freely. A country's cultural policy reflects its view of man, both as a creator and as a recipient of what has been created by others. Culture can also affect people to see the world with new eyes, change perspectives and think in other ways. Culture can be an important tool for changing destructive or outdated attitudes, traditions and norms. Through culture, we humans can interpret and define our time, our past and our visions ahead. The power of thought is largely created by our ability to practice culture and to assimilate cultural experiences. Our performances are characterized by the worldview that others convey to us, but also by the opportunities we have to tell our stories ourselves. Culture and cultural expressions are therefore never neutral. They are characterized by the notions, contradictions and conditions of their time. The gender power system, heteronorm, structural racism and class society limit free expression by invisibly, suppressing and disparaging stories and experiences. Equality and equality can therefore never be achieved, either in society at large or in culture, unless we fight and conquer these power structures. Cultural policy and life, like society in general, are permeated by patriarchal structures. Men are over-represented in all fields of culture. This means that everyone else's stories, experiences and expressions remain under-represented at all levels of cultural life. Both history and the present are characterized by the invisibility of women but also by LGBTQ people, people with different disabilities, racial groups and national minorities. Expressing oneself through art is a fundamental human right. Every artistic expression is unique and an important part of the society we live in. The result of artistic creation cannot be equated with ordinary goods and services but has a specific dimension. Market forces alone cannot guarantee cultural diversity, whether locally, regionally, nationally or internationally, but the main responsibility for this lies with public policy and cultural policy as a whole. Conditions must therefore be provided for everyone to have the opportunity to develop their creative capacity and to be active participants on equal terms in cultural life. People's stories and experiences should be illustrated, portrayed and represented equally in all areas of culture. Cultural diversity is basically a question of democracy, freedom of expression and equality and something that enriches us all. A progressive cultural policy is therefore needed, which is characterised, among other things, by norm-critical, feminist and anti-racist perspectives, and which breaks down the obstacles to the exercise and participation of culture created by class society. This is particularly important at a time when xenophobic parties and the far-right movement are strengthening their positions and both limit our ability to express ourselves freely through culture and question free culture.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-759	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for reservation 1 in paragraph 2. Here I would also like to draw the attention of the House to the special opinion of the Liberals which is contained in this paragraph and which most of my speech will be about. In addition, I would like to ask you to accept reservation 5 in paragraph 7. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is an open society. It should be welcoming, it should be curious and it should be interested in the outside world and seek outwards to create understanding inwards. An open society needs literature, art and other cultural expressions that provoke and challenge, amuse and worry. It gives people the tools to understand, question, influence and look at society from a new perspective. When people practice or take part in culture, the inspiration, creativity and new ideas, as well as the consensus, are born. The task of cultural policy, Mr President, is not to govern culture – which is an idea that can sometimes be derived from government policy – but to improve the conditions for artistic creation and for the education of the individual, no matter where in the country you live and work. The value of culture does not need to be justified by anything other than that it is culture. Cultural policy must never be reduced to a tool with the task of solving problems such as unemployment, regional imbalances, exclusion, inequality or the like. This means that it is difficult to measure only in objectives such as jobs or the number of projects, which is how the government has put the policy in place. Therefore, in the Liberals, we reject the government's various proposals for specific directions and initiatives in specific areas that fragment the role of culture. On the Liberal side, Mr President, we want to make some fundamental changes in the course of cultural policy. In order for cultural policy really to become a powerful tool, the objectives, orientations and, perhaps, above all, the state's approach to regional and municipal self-government must be changed. Mr President, I would like to Culture must be accessible to all people. This requires a wide range of cultural offerings that satisfy people's different needs, and it is in this that the model of cultural cooperation has a crucial key role to play. Especially year-long people and people with disabilities, Mr President, like everyone else, have a clear right to cultural experiences – but must be given additional opportunities. Therefore, outreach activities and adapted forums must have a strong position in cultural policy in the state cultural area. This can be done both by direct action and by making personal assistants, health care professionals or close relatives well-trained intermediaries. Mr President, I would like to What I am talking about is one of the most important cultural policy tasks, namely to create space for quality culture throughout the country. As everyone knows, public support for culture comes from both state, regions and county councils and municipalities. All four have the responsibility to create good opportunities for a rich cultural life with both breadth and depth. The follow-up report on the collaborative model made by the Culture Committee shows that the model has contributed to a good focus but that it has been difficult to get to the renewal and development of culture that was actually one of the basic aims of the model. This is why in the Liberals' budget motion we allocate SEK 100 million more than the government to the cultural cooperation model, annually from 2017. We want more, and we are serious – hence our special opinion in today's report. Mr President, I would like to Since the introduction of the cultural co-operation model, the state has backed up funding responsibility through very low annual indexations and virtually no increase in funding. When the model was introduced, no additional State resources were added, and what is actually allocated to the regions has not increased at the same rate as regional funding. At the same time, the state's approach to the regional cultural plans governing the allocation of funds has been considerably tightened. Mr President, I would like to Liberals believe that state cultural policy should in principle be general and that selective selection principles must be applied very sparingly. National support must be long-term and distributed with much greater confidence in local and regional competences. That is why, truly and genuinely, we are investing in the cultural cooperation model – both financially and by transferring much more responsibility regionally. Mr President, I would like to The economic problems of our local and regional cultural scenes have become increasingly acute in recent years. The cost of staff and rents is particularly high in the economy of the institutions. We are seeing this more and more now, with increased taxes that will hit hard. The state has been involved in appointing national representatives in the field of culture – for example, the Gothenburg Symphony has been appointed as the National Orchestra – without either financial or otherwise supporting their development. This is not sustainable. It is very good to have well-dispersed national cultural points, but then financial opportunities must also be included. In the fall of the Gothenburg Symphony it is lucky that the orchestra exists in a large region with a lot of muscles. When it comes to the initiative at Nationa lmuseum Norr i Östersund, which I am very pleased about, I very much hope that full funding for the operation will also be included. Today it is not budgeted. In recent years there have been worrying alarm signals from theatre people, musicians and museum workers around the country that the future of important cultural institutions is actually threatened. Several of them are completely unique, and efforts are needed to preserve and further develop them. This must be the responsibility of the state. Mr President, I would like to Finally, the task of politics is to constantly defend people's right to sensual experiences and stand up for the creative man. It is the individuals themselves, their creation and their experiences, who determine the forms, content and validity of culture. It is the minds of children and the adult citizen who – without censorship – will themselves form an idea of good and bad art and culture, experience their cultural heritage and create their future. As has already been said, I would like to express my support for paragraph 1 with a separate opinion, and I would also like to ask you to accept paragraph 5.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-776	Mr President, I would like to Initially, I would like to say that I am pleased that Bengt Eliasson takes the page from his mouth and criticises the former alliance government for its little attitude towards state resources towards the cultural cooperation model. I would also like to remind you that the Liberals are in fact the party that spends the second least resources on cultural policy. The Center Party has the weakest cultural budget, but the Liberals spend nearly SEK 600 million less than the government. What I find problematic about Bengt Eliasson's speech is that rhetoric and politics are not really connected. I agree with much of what Bengt Eliasson says about having confidence in local and regional actors, but if we look at the Liberals' draft budget, we can see that the Liberals want to round the cultural cooperation model all the time. They want new searchable support for local cultural institutions, and they want a parallel structure for the museum entrance fee. There is therefore no confidence in the model of cultural cooperation. And if you look in the Liberals' exercise river you can see an extreme lack of clarity; there you even want to point out where head of institutions should have their place of work. Why these double signals from the Liberals?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-780	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I'm going to sort out the financial blunders. The fact that film policy is now entirely within the state ownership is a major part of what looks like minus items in our budget because we do not believe in the film policy created by the government. Instead, we want a completely different funding for this, alongside it, and we point to a number of such elements. However, I will not go into the details of this. It is therefore a broad explanation. What we do when we say that we trust the regional competences is precisely about making state aid searchable and selectable for the local representatives. It is therefore up to the local and regional authorities, who actually understand their own conditions, to use state funds for what suits at home. It should not be determined from Rosenbad. We would rather see a support that meets the local skills than a support that meets the inner city of Stockholm, where a fairly small number of people can take part in the museum offering and other special offers that are available locally here. This does not mean spread throughout the country.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-783	Mr President, I would like to I do not think I received an answer to my question as to why the Liberals are running with double messages, so I will return to it: why are rhetoric and politics not connected? For any cultural policy you want, but at least be consistent! The Alliance parties have now signed up to a joint reservation on the cultural cooperation model. I find this very strange, given how the alliance parties' draft budget sprung. Liberals and Christian Democrats believe that new state resources are needed for the model of cultural cooperation, while the Center Party and the Moderates, on the contrary, are making substantial cuts to the model of cultural cooperation. We know from the experience of the Alliance's year of government that the Alliance's cultural policy has always been that the party that wants to have the least impact, and then there will be nothing of cultural policy. Despite the good intentions of the Liberals in terms of the cultural cooperation model, we know that a common alliance policy leads to a reduction in resources. I think it is unfortunate that the Liberals have signed up in a reservation together with parties that want to cut back on resources for the cultural cooperation model. It would be better if the Liberals were on their own or joined the red-green policy in this area. But above all, Bengt Eliasson must answer my question. Why speak of increased confidence in the regional level when at the same time you want to round the cultural cooperation model and even exercise about where head of institutions should have their jobs?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-788	Mr President, I would like to Reliance on regional competences is a core value for us, and added value is needed. As I said, we are spending quite a lot of money precisely to push freedom of choice into the country in all its parts. Let us take the museums as an example, because Niclas Malmberg highlighted them. The Liberals and I welcome, of course, those museums that want to offer free admission – there is no talk about this. It is a way of increasing people's access to cultural heritage. However, it must be up to each museum to decide whether and how this is to happen, and it must be up to more museums than the few that the state owns and operates. The government's reform meets a very small geographical part of the country and a very small part of the population. We believe that this is not good enough. That is why we have added a plus value outside the cultural collaboration model, which meets exactly those who have the best skills to know how to do it. This is a very important part of the whole – to have a broad cultural collaboration model with great freedom for the whole country to work with its regional and local areas, but then to add the added value needed. Against this, the government put centralization, decision-making over the local competences and government governance that we haven't seen for a long time in Swedish cultural policy.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-793	Mr President, I would like to Liberals have a proud tradition of being a school and educational party. This is probably something of a signum that you have continued to lean on. I would therefore like to ask about the attitude of the Liberals towards the cultural cannon that has been raised earlier in today's debate. The working party of the Liberals in Denmark – with which I suppose close cooperation is being established within, for example, the framework of Nordic cooperation – is behind this policy and is even pushing for the development of a cultural cannon, against Denmark's cannons and other parts, to include not only physical or actual art and cultural markers but also values and social codes. I would like to ask Bengt Eliasson how it is that people have landed in such diametrically different views with just Sundet between us. Do you think that Denmark is pursuing a radical, chauvinist policy through a cultural cannon, or can this even be a tool for strengthening cultural understanding, integration and education to some extent?
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-796	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Emilsson for the question and the input. It is not that terrible a long time ago that we also had a literature cannon – but not a culture cannon in Swedish-democratic bottling – as part of our policy, not least in schools and education. We have taken this away in recent years. We have moved on in – and also broadened – these parts, for we have seen the problems when you narrow down and want to shape some form of solid structure in the living and developing matter that culture and literature are. Then you have to have a much more vivid concept and format than a fixed list. In this way, then, we have moved forward in our policy. We have developed the educational part, the educational part and the cultural part by allowing this to be living matter, opening up and providing opportunities to take part in a breadth, variation and – above all – constant renewal of cultural expressions.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-800	Mr President, I would like to I thank Bengt Eliasson for his answer. I do not really see the contradiction between the fact that we have a living cultural culture – which somewhere lies in the concept of culture – while we have a standing tradition of treasures and cultural works to convey. We have seen that the Liberals have gone from more of an educational orientation to focusing strongly on the provocative, challenging and innovative culture of rhetoric and the political toolbox. This is something that is very strongly focused on in relation to our other major areas of the committee. At the same time, I am pleased to see that it has been inspired by proposals relating to open museums and to strengthen the museum sector – issues that the Swedish Democrats have driven – as well as those relating to production incentives and other areas where there are contact points and where one can take an impression and go in a joint, constructive direction. However, my question remains: what is the contradiction between the fact that we see culture as ever alive and innovative – in free cultural life and in parts of publicly funded cultural life – and that we have classics in literature as well as in film, art, theatre, music and the like? Sweden needs more cohesion, not less. I know that Bengt Eliasson and other liberals have expressed this in the past when we see suburban environments and, not least, alienation areas drifting away from the majority society.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-806	Mr President, I would like to I began my speech by saying that Sweden should be open, welcoming, curious and interested in the outside world. That is precisely why – if we are now to boil it down to the cultural area – we believe that mobility and transparency here must mark more than a fixed list that lives over time. Of course, there are great works and an inheritance that is important to preserve and carry along. But this is also being reshaped and renewed in new contexts all the time. In the field of culture, the international impulses that come to us – both with people moving here and in exchange with the outside world – have marked us through millennia. Openness and diversity have been, and are, crucial to Sweden's overall prosperity, to our creativity and to our inherent cultural power. We must not forget that what we know today as Swedish culture and cultural heritage has been created in intimate discussions and exchanges with the outside world through millennia. Sweden needs to increase its involvement in international cultural cooperation, not reduce it. Mr President, I would like to We must never forget that what is being created today is tomorrow's cultural heritage. It is constantly renewed and is constantly changing. I want us all to come along and be part of it.
i-7b2bdc0ce7ff3432-811	Mr President, I would like to Every art we practice or take part in helps to create contexts and provide an understanding of how other people think and experience their surroundings. In a society that is often divided and divided, culture meets basic human needs for a whole. But art doesn't just interpret. It also affects people's views and actions. Culture must be allowed to enter all phases of life and all sectors of society. The opportunity to participate in cultural and artistic life is a right for everyone, both adults, young people and children. Two of the national cultural policy objectives are that all people should have the opportunity to participate in cultural life and that creativity, diversity and artistic quality should shape society's development. It is therefore positive that the model of cultural cooperation, introduced by the Alliance Government, should remain in place and be given the opportunity to develop. Perhaps the biggest reform that came from the 2009 Cultural Survey was the cultural cooperation model. In the past, the state allocated cultural policy appropriations in detail to regional or municipal bodies. Although the region fully agreed on the allocation of resources, it was always the state that knew best. The state has and must have overall strategic responsibility for the development of cultural policy throughout the country. But the center of gravity has shifted. Because society is much larger than the state, civil society – one of the most important parts of society – is involved, in particular, in associations and cultural creators themselves. State influence has decreased, and the influence of the regions has increased. Decisions have been moved closer to the citizens, and culture is at the same time an important piece of the puzzle in regional development work. Mr President, I would like to We need culture. It gives us roots to our history. It gives us meaning in the present, visions for the future and opportunities to live in a context. In culture there is an ability to bridge differences and create community. Schools, churches, theatres, museums and other cultural institutions, along with voluntary organizations, are natural places for conversation on human life issues and values. They can help to create deeper respect for the values that are a prerequisite for democracy. The ability to participate and experience each other's cultures are important tools in the fight against racism and xenophobia. They are also invaluable aids in the reception and integration of newcomers. One of the most important tasks of cultural policy is to highlight the common and borderless one that does not halt at national borders while encouraging all kinds of cultural expression. The dignity of every human being must, of course, be at the heart of the issue. Mr President, I would like to The national cultural policy objectives make it clear that culture should be a dynamic, challenging and untying force based on freedom of expression, that everyone should have the opportunity to participate in cultural life and that creativity, diversity and artistic quality should shape the development of society. One part of achieving the objectives is that cultural policy promotes everyone's opportunity for cultural experience, education and the development of their creative abilities. This applies to all people in all walks of life and no matter where they live or work in the country. We Christian Democrats believe it is particularly important that culture is available to people with hearing impairments, visual impairments, limited mobility or other disabilities. Accessibility must never be regarded as a special interest. On the contrary, making our society accessible must be in the public interest. What is good for those in a wheelchair is also good for, for example, parents of young children with a stroller and actually for all of us. Unfortunately, cultural life is different depending on where you live in Sweden. The Alliance government ensured the introduction of an economic distribution model that encourages diversity and diversity. The cultural cooperation model is that the regions or county councils together with the municipalities and in dialogue with civil society and cultural creators develop regional cultural plans which then form the basis for the state's decision on co-financing. We Christian Democrats, together with the rest of the Alliance, write in our reservation that the cultural cooperation model has made a significant impact on the country. In its analysis, the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis points out that culture through the model today is being discussed in a new way in a political context linked to regional development. That's great. That's interesting. It is, of course, positive that the government has chosen to maintain the regional model of cultural cooperation. The next step must be to investigate how the state institutions can take greater responsibility for the whole country. The National Council for Culture should be tasked with identifying how this can be done. What I have pointed out here, the Parliament should support and announce to the government. I call for the approval of reservation 1, which is a joint reservation by the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats on the model of cultural cooperation.
