i-146c1a9e88e0ad39-5	Mr President, I would like to Staffan Danielsson has asked the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation how it is that Systembolaget has been able to do political lobbying on the issue of farm sales of alcoholic beverages and whether the Minister will take any steps to prevent this from happening in the future. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Systembolaget has the task of selling alcohol with exclusive rights, and with responsibility and good service, and to inform about its harmful effects. The main objective of the exclusive right is to protect public health by excluding private profit in retail trade. There are therefore no economic interests at retail level that can contribute to increased sales and thus increased alcohol consumption. Part of Systembolaget's mission is to inform the public about the risks associated with the consumption of alcohol. This is done by the company in several different ways in order to reach as many as possible. One example is the Alcohol Report, which was first published in 2017. It shows current research, new statistics and trends in consumption and injury development, both for individuals and for society at large. Systembolaget also carries out information campaigns. This is therefore part of the company's information mission. The state's requirements for Systembolaget are specified in the Alcohol Act, among other things. The government governs Systembolaget through the agreement between Systembolaget and the state, the ownership instructions and through the state's ownership policy and guidelines for companies with state ownership. As with other state-owned companies, Systembolaget's board is responsible for the organisation and management of the company's affairs. The day-to-day operations are managed by the company's management. Systembolaget has, in the owner's instructions, mission goals to be able to measure and monitor that the specifically decided community assignments are performed well. Follow-up of Systembolaget's mission is an important tool in the state's active management of the company. This follow-up takes place, among other things, in the ownership dialogue between the state as owner and the company's chairman and management. I have a good and close dialogue with Systembolaget and will continue to have it. The motive behind the Swedish retail monopoly is the protection of public health. Systembolaget is one of the most important tools of alcohol policy and public health policy, and there is a large public support for Systembolaget and the service provided by the company.
i-146c1a9e88e0ad39-11	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer, which shows how charged this question is. The answer is hardly about the question at all, but contains more general wordings about Systembolaget's mission. The issue of the state's monopoly on alcohol is one thing. I can inform the Minister of Social Affairs that we had a lively debate recently at the Centre Assembly on its design. There it was pretty close that the line that the state should license alcohol sales to various retail outlets and stores, where Systembolaget can be a continued important player along with others, won the majority. To be honest, I think in a few years we can be there. We'll see about that. Today, the state company Systembolaget has a monopoly on all alcohol sales of spirits, wine and beer in stronger forms. With the increasing Swedish alcohol taxes, the availability of alcohol and beer in streets, parking spaces and squares where no age control takes place is unfortunately increasing. Of course, this enables those who want, regardless of their age, to get what they want that way. Systembolaget's mission is according to its CEO to sell alcohol without profit interest and with care. It's supposed to be done without extra prices and a lid. Yes, yes. When we enter Systembolaget's stores, we encounter a huge shock exposure of alcohol in various forms with spirits, wine and beer in all price ranges and with cheap sweetened box wines in large prisoners where you walk. I'd say it's an incentive to buy. Systembolaget delivers several hundred million SEK in profit to the state each year. I would think that the company contributes to increased wine sales more than we can understand. My interpellation is not about this, but about the proposals that exist to allow a small number of vineyards to sell their wine on the farm, which is happening today in Finland, which also has an alcohol monopoly and which, like Sweden, is in the EU. This is discussed politically by the citizens and by the parties of the Riksdag. I am in favour of this right. If Europe were to grunt, we would have to discuss with them, but we should not lie down and die. In this debate Systembolaget and its CEO suddenly throw themselves in with big ads in 56 newspapers and in personal letters to every Member of Parliament with the call: For Gud's sake, don't allow wine sales in any farm shops run by profit interests and without concern for public health! State profit is thus excellent in Absolut Vodka, earlier, and in Systembolaget. But serious vineyards with small margins are condemned as profit hungry. That is a pitiful argument. Should a state subsidiary and its CEO write the citizens and their clients of the Riksdag on how the rules for the company and the monopoly should be designed? Is the company's mission to inform about the harm caused by alcohol to give citizens and Parliament instructions on how the rules governing the company's activities should be designed? I'm upset. Does the Minister of Social Affairs share my outrage, or is this exactly how government companies should act?
i-146c1a9e88e0ad39-21	Mr President, I would like to For the Center Party, it is an important issue that so-called farm sale of alcohol should be possible. That you think so is of course the reason why you have asked the interpellation, even if its question concerns that Systembolaget's CEO has sent us a letter from Members of Parliament. Apparently, there have also been advertisements, which I have not seen myself. However, when it comes to letters to Members of Parliament, I think that is something that we should be able to get. It is something that we also get to a large extent – both snail mail and email. However, the Center Party is not consistent on this issue and is therefore not credible in terms of lobbying. When we look at other issues, such as airline tax, we know that Swedavia, a state-owned company, has both conducted and participated in campaigns against the government's proposed airline tax. I have not heard Staffan Danielsson or any other bourgeois representative question it. Possibly the reason is that on this issue one has agreed with Swedavia, which one is not with Systembolaget in this case. This is also not about the substance of the interpellation, the lobbying of state-owned companies, but about what you think about farm sales. Mr President, I would like to Why is farm sale not a good idea? One might think that it is very nice to be able to buy a bottle of Scanian wine grown on Österlen, and that would not mean any harm to public health, would it? Absolutely – it could be really nice. And guess what? This bottle wouldn't be the one that would increase the damage very much. But if we were to open up for farm sales, we would also risk Systembolaget's alcohol monopoly, and then we could see far greater consequences. I know that many on the bourgeois side have the aim of abolishing Systembolaget's alcohol monopoly, but then I think that one must be honest and honest and discuss the issue and not hide it behind any other issue. If so, say that you do not want to keep Systembolaget! Me and the Green Party think Systembolaget should remain. From what I understand, it was also what the Center Party decided on at its meeting. I think it is important to have a discussion on alcohol policy, on taxes, opening hours and age limits. One can also discuss how Systembolaget could make the order range from small breweries more accessible and smoother. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to ask: why is the Center Party prepared to challenge Systembolaget's monopoly of alcohol with the major consequences it could have?
i-146c1a9e88e0ad39-27	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Staffan Danielsson, for your contribution! In my interpellation answer, I answered exactly the question you ask. Systembolaget has a clear mission, which is a community mission and which is about also pointing out the consequences of alcohol on public health. It's a mission they're doing just fine. The government does not control Systembolaget in detail; that is not the task. As Staffan Danielsson well knows, the starting point for government corporate governance is the Swedish corporate governance model. The company is governed by the Companies Act. So this governance should not be confused with the governance of our authorities. What advertising campaigns the company should participate in as well as what costs associated with the same are up to the company's board of directors and management to decide on. My task is to see how the company fulfils the tasks that we have assigned to it, namely to ensure, among other things, that information on the consequences for public health of the harmful effects of alcohol. That's the first thing. The second – which we must nevertheless point out – is that Systembolaget is the company in which the Swedish people have absolutely the most confidence. This has been the case for years. In fact, customer satisfaction indices have increased from over 70 in the early 2000s to a record level of 84 in 2015. This is a company that has a very large public support and which you experience provides a good service and fulfills its mission well. In addition, we see, which we should be extremely happy about as politicians, that alcohol consumption in Sweden is going down. This applies not least to young people, who are obviously far wiser than we were when we grew up. This is, of course, a positive direction that we want to pursue in the future. We see that our alcohol monopoly is successful. I shall now turn to the question of farm sales. I see that I have two minutes of speaking time left of this speech, so I will have to come back on this. The moderate-led alliance government itself set up two investigations to investigate whether it was possible to combine farm sales with maintaining our retail monopoly. Both investigations showed that this was not possible and therefore it was decided not to proceed with the proposals. That's the reality. When we talk about the example of Finland, we must be honest once and for all in the debate and state that it is not possible to apply it to the Swedish entrance to the matter. Finland is allowed to sell fruit wines made from berries that grow above a certain latitude. That is the exception that Finland has. It is negotiated in connection with Finland's accession to the EU. They tried in 2009 to gain more space by also including liqueurs but got slapped on the fingers by the Commission and did not go on with this. Now we will see, when Finland tries to take another step in this direction, what the consequences will be. One must also be careful to say that this is not about wine bottles in the Skåne countryside. The Alliance government's own investigations showed that opening up to this would also require making farm sales available to producers throughout the EU in order not to violate the EU's rules of discrimination. As a result, European alcohol producers could also open stores throughout Sweden and break the Swedish retail monopoly. It is not just about vineyards in Skåne. Let us have some honesty in the debate. If you do not want the alcohol monopoly – say so, let's have that debate instead!
i-146c1a9e88e0ad39-35	Mr President, I would like to Finland dares and challenges the EU. But the government and the Green Party have a great deal of respect for the EU and dare nothing. It used to be different times. On the substance of the issue of wine-farming, Sweden is perhaps the only country in Europe where this is not allowed. I see it as a very small and obvious question. It is clear that this will happen, and it will happen in Finland as well. For example, the farms could become representatives of Systembolaget. If the EU were to raise the issue, it would have to be discussed. The discussion would be about farm sales – not about the alcohol monopoly, on which we agree. Sweden is a member of the EU, yes. But we can and should take for ourselves within the European Union and not just lie down and die in fear of how the European Union can act. We must have the courage to act and take advantage of ourselves. So to Systembolaget's scandalous, I would say, action. I am a Member of Parliament and a legislator, and the parliament and government are the parliamentary instruments that lay down rules for state companies, of which Systembolaget is one. It's important to keep our roles separate. Another arrangement would be for the state to appoint a board of directors in Systembolaget, for example, which appoints a CEO and that together they decide how their operations should be regulated and how the alcohol monopoly should be designed. I noted that the Minister of Social Affairs believes that they are working within the framework of their mission. That is very remarkable. Another approach would be, and it is almost as bad, for the Board and the CEO to interpret their mission as having to participate fully in the political debate and write both citizens and the Riksdag on how the conditions for the alcohol monopoly and the company they are set to manage should be designed. This can be further developed unless the owners, the government and the parliament, act. The defence could advertise and write letters stating that Sweden must join NATO. It would be a parallel. Now I am in favour of NATO, and Sweden will soon be there, but it would still be indecent to have such an opinion formed by an authority under the authority of the government. The same is true of Swedavia. I have not seen a letter from Swedavia for me, but I would think it was just as bad as this letter that we have received. Therefore, it is with great seriousness that I ask the government, through its Minister of Social Affairs, first of all: should a state-owned company therefore write letters to its clients and advertise across the country for multi-million amounts and tell citizens and parliament how to design the legislation of the company that tells them what to do? I understand that the Minister of Social Affairs' answer to that question is: yes, they should be able to act. I have no point of view on that. Secondly, does the government and the Minister for Social Affairs have confidence in a company management that interprets its mission in the way it has done? The Minister of Social Affairs has contacts with the board of directors. Was this advertising campaign anchored in the company's board of directors? My last question is: If Systembolaget's board decided on or knew about advertising campaign and letters without acting, has the government confidence in this government board that has so clearly misunderstood its mission? There were three questions, the Minister of Social Affairs. I have already noted the answer. It's okay for a corporate CEO, perhaps anchored in his board of directors, to write letters to me and all the MPs about how to design the rules for the company's operations. I can't see it's in that role. I think it is a very remarkable act. If the government does not act on this issue, what do we open up to? We agree on Swedavia, Rasmus. I have not understood that campaign, but I do not think that state companies should write letters to the Riksdag and tell their owners how to define the framework for the companies' own operations.
i-146c1a9e88e0ad39-48	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased to hear this clarity from Staffan Danielsson now. There can certainly be more opportunities when our company that manages our airports does the same, and if so, we can help each other. Something that is important in the discussion about Systembolaget and farm sales, especially when it is the Center Party that raises the issue, I think is Systembolaget's mission regarding accessibility throughout the country and how it works today and how it would risk if one were to open up for farm sales in the way that the Center Party wants. The Strandhäll Government said that if this were done, it would open up for European companies to open stores anywhere. We can probably assume that these competitors from European companies would not start shops in Strömsund or Årjäng. They would do so at Drottninggatan in Stockholm, in Malmö where I live and possibly also in Gothenburg and other major cities, but they would not do so in the Swedish countryside. Consequently, if Systembolaget no longer exists, or if there were to be a market for other operators, the supply for people living in Strömsund, Årjäng and elsewhere would be considerably smaller than it is today. I think that's a shame. It would not be good for the countryside, and I am a little surprised that the Center Party is taking this position on such an important issue.
i-146c1a9e88e0ad39-52	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Staffan Danielsson, it is in Systembolaget's mission to inform the public, and it is the company's responsibility to interpret that mission. Systembolaget's primary aim is to protect public health, and this is also an information mission. How Systembolaget fulfills this task does not govern the government in detail, and the government should not regulate it in detail. Systembolaget is subject to the Swedish Companies Act, and it is the board and management of the company that will ensure the company's best interests and the way in which the company will take on these assignments. At the latest ownership dialogue – I have a very good dialogue with Systembolaget – which I had as late as 11 September with both the CEO and the Chairman of the Board informed the company that, in the light of this community mission, it intended to make external information efforts in this area. Precisely how they would be designed is, of course, up to the company to decide on. I can state, as I said in my previous speech, that there is a great deal of confidence among the Swedish population in the way in which Systembolaget manages its tasks. It is the company in which the Swedish population has the greatest confidence. It is also the case that we in Sweden see, which is very gratifying, that alcohol consumption is falling, especially among young people. The alcohol policy we are pursuing in Sweden is very successful. I often get reactions from colleagues across Europe, not least in the Baltic States, who are envious of the situation we have in Sweden. We have a very effective alcohol policy in which we reduce the harmful effects of alcohol and, in addition, in this way, enjoy a great deal of confidence from the Swedish people in the way in which the mission is carried out, but also in terms of the service provided to citizens. We should, of course, protect this and, as politicians, be pleased that we have a successful company. Then I have to get to grips with what was said here earlier, namely that Systembolaget is actually, contrary to what is sometimes cited in the debate, astoundingly by some center parties, part of a living countryside. Systembolaget is represented in every municipality in Sweden. In addition, Systembolaget, precisely because it is seen that interest in local and small-scale has increased in recent years, has really ensured that a larger range of such goods are provided in its stores. In fact, as a customer at Systembolaget you can order about 1 000 local and small-scale products from all over Sweden and pick it up at its local store or at its S ystembol agsförbud. That's amazing. When it comes to how Systembolaget agents work in Sweden, which is important to keep order when entering this debate, Systembolaget agents can only store alcoholic beverages that consumers have previously ordered. This means that an agent must not be allowed to store goods for direct sales, because then it will be a question of retailing directly to the consumer, which is in breach of the exception that we have with regard to how we should relate to our retail monopoly and to European law.
i-146c1a9e88e0ad39-58	Mr President, I would like to This is getting really interesting. The Minister for Social Affairs and I agree that Systembolaget has the task of informing the public about the harmful effects of alcohol and so on. However, the Minister of Social Affairs says that the government should not interfere in how the company accomplishes this. That's remarkable. We find out that on 11 September Systembolaget's board and management informed us that they intended to make external information efforts. It is clear that the letter to the members of parliament who have been written by the CEO, about how we should act and shape the conditions for Systembolaget, was anchored in the company's board. The government knew that a campaign would take place but not exactly how and saw no reason to act. When I ask how the Government sees the way in which the company's board and CEO acts, when it comes to writing letters to its clients in the Riksdag, advertising to the public and writing us on the nose about how the rules for how the company's operations are to be designed, I get the answer that it is in their mission. The Government does not act afterwards. Neither does the company's board of directors. This debate highlights important issues of principle that we must continue to discuss. It is possible that the Constitutional Committee should also discuss this. We'll see about that. I thank the Government for a good debate and for the straight and clear answers I have received. I do not think they are satisfactory at all, but thank you for the debate.
i-AVX6B739jbYbcMd3fp8Mup	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the debate, Staffan Danielsson! There is no reason to have interpellation debates or interpellations with the government unless you can expect straight and honest answers. It's a clear part of my mission to deliver them. I have answered Staffan Danielsson's questions about what a mission Systembolaget has. My role as responsible minister is not to go in and control the information campaigns that Systembolaget is constantly conducting. On the contrary, my role is to look at how to carry out their tasks regarding the impact of our retail monopoly on public health in Sweden. Is alcohol consumption down? Is the public well informed about possible risks and the harmful effects of alcohol? I think Systembolaget is doing its job in an excellent way in that case. This also shows the support for Systembolaget as a function. It is also important to have some manners in the debate, Staffan Danielsson. You are saying that the government is not challenging the EU. My task as Minister is in this case to evaluate how Systembolaget works and how they fulfill their mission. I note that they show excellent results as others envy us. Two alliance-initiated investigations have concluded that it is not possible to challenge the EU. The Alliance government also chose not to go forward with this. Then it would be foolish. It would also have effects which I have described as undesirable during this interpellation debate. Thank you for a good debate!
