i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-1	Madam President, I would like Mrs Pethrus has asked me, firstly, what measures I intend to take to break the isolation of former participants in the employment phase and, secondly, whether I have taken any initiative to analyse the effects of the rapid phasing out of the employment phase. Finally, Mrs Pethrus has asked me whether I and the government are going to take any legislative initiatives or take any other action to enable re-introduction into the labour market. Everyone who can work should work. A job means the opportunity for self-sufficiency, belonging, community and the power to shape one's life and future. Therefore, the government's top priority is that more people should get to work. The Job and Development Guarantee is now personalised, less detailed and without phases. The long-term unemployed now have the opportunity to take part in the whole toolkit of the Public Employment Service's active interventions on the basis of individual needs. The opportunities for studies have been strengthened, the introduction and reinforcement of additional services have been implemented and the opportunities for taking part in work training have been expanded. In addition, modern state-owned preparedness jobs have been introduced and the extension of trainee jobs and career introductions for the long-term unemployed and newcomers have been implemented. I see the valuable work done by many labour-integrated social enterprises for the long-term unemployed. Individuals have different needs and different conditions, and we therefore need a broad range of actions. The fact that people in the Job and Development Guarantee stand without support or intervention for long periods of time is not acceptable. What is important for these people, however, is that the Arbetsförmedlingen can now make an individual assessment and decide on a meaningful effort or activity for each individual. It may take longer to make a qualitative decision but is likely to improve in the long run. However, it is important that Arbetsförmedlingen ensures that decisions do not take too long without the right person getting the right input at the right time. Overall, the government has taken and proposed several different measures to prevent and prevent people from falling into long-term unemployment. I'm still not happy. The employment agency can better, and more job seekers can take part in meaningful activities that strengthen their job or education opportunities. The Government closely monitors the work of the Employment Service with the change in the job and development guarantee and thus the closure of the employment phase.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-7	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I think we can agree when the Government says that everyone who can work should work and that it is important for self-sufficiency, belonging, community and the power to shape their life and their future. However, when we come to the concrete results of the new government, we are still a little dismayed at the compensation for the employment phase carried out by the Alliance for those who have been long-term unemployed. After 450 days, these people entered phase 3, which we are talking about here. It was people who could previously be unemployed years in and out of work without any action that produced results. These are people who are far removed from the labour market and need special action. What we did was, above all, to give these people the opportunity to enter through various cooperatives and social enterprises in order to try in different ways to get them into a community and break isolation, so that they would also gain qualifications, references and contacts in order to enter the labour market. Now we can see the result after the government has rapidly decommissioned those that were in phase 3. There were about 39,000 people at the beginning of 2016. Since this was rapidly wound up, three quarters have now left phase 3 without actually having received a significant contribution as a substitute. Today, the Public Employment Service is even talking about something that is called internal placement, which I do not feel at all good. This means that people are actually at home and do not get any input. The Red-Green Government said in its election campaign programme and also afterwards that it would replace this with trainee and extra services. I understand that many of these people have not entered this type of service. Where have these 39 000 people gone? The Alliance's employment phase was perhaps not perfect. But about 48 percent of those entering phase 3 went after it into some form of employment. This is a fairly good result, compared to other labour market policy programmes such as the Employment Service. The question is what the government has done to really ensure that the people who were in this phase of employment and who have been long-term unemployed come into some options. The Government says that more individual efforts have been offered with studies, extra services and modern preparedness jobs. But not many have entered these services. The Government also says that she is still not satisfied and that Arbetsförmedlingen can better. What does the Government think the Public Employment Service should be better able to do? The Government then says that she will follow Arbetsförmedlingen's work with the change. I hope that the government has already done so, as the whole of 2016 has gone and should be able to be evaluated. How does the Government view what has happened in 2016? What are the alternatives given to these people? If the Government is not satisfied, what else does the Government want to see?
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-19	Madam President, I would like Let me first thank you, Désirée Pethrus, for the genuine commitment you show. You have raised this issue several times with me, and I know that it stems from genuine commitment both to the people and to the work-inclusive social enterprises. I'm not happy with the progress. Generally speaking, the labour market is doing well. I am not satisfied with that either, but it is moving in the right direction. However, in the case of the long-term unemployed, we have two major problems. One is that we have an influx of the long-term unemployed. They come mainly from the establishment mission. After two years in the start-up assignment, about half of them move on to long-term unemployment. That is totally unacceptable. So it is a serious problem. Another serious problem is that now that the government has given the Public Employment Service the whole toolbox for the long-term unemployed, we have seen that many of these tools have not increased in use in the way I expected. Let me still say one thing and correct Mrs Pethrus a little bit. It was not during the time of the previous government that people in phase 3 went mainly to cooperatives or social enterprises, but mainly it was 1 000 private companies that received people in phase 3. It was heavily criticized and often substandard activity that people engaged in. In the case of cooperatives, labour-integrated social enterprises and a large number of private operators, we would of course like to continue to cooperate with them. I guess I'll tell you the truth, I feel a certain frustration. We have now given the opportunity to use the entire toolbox. We have added new tools – for example, extra service you, which is growing at a good pace – but we have also opened the toolbox for training, work training and other efforts that many of these people need. We have not seen the corresponding increase in instructions for the other efforts. I hope that we will see a change there; otherwise, of course, we will have to be prepared to take further action. It is also a dialogue I have with Arbetsförmedlingen. When it comes to people who are far from the labour market and have been unemployed for a long time, it is my conviction that it is extremely important that individual efforts are made. However, they must also come about, so that people really get the action they need.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-25	Madam President, I would like I hope that both the Government and I are committed to ensuring that people who are far removed from the labour market are able to find employment that suits them and that is truly individualised. This is usually what is needed when it comes to people who find it difficult to enter the labour market. It can have different reasons – you can have a disability, you can be born abroad or you can be older, but somehow you have difficulty getting into the labour market. The Government says that far too few are moving from the start-up phase to regular work, and indeed it is. We can agree with that. We know that 30% of those who have come to Sweden are still unemployed after 15 years. We in the Christian Democrats have said that there is a need for some kind of previous support. We are talking about an asylum programme – that we should start there already with real, regular sfi, social orientation and employment. It is a great pity that we are not allowed to work more with employment during the asylum period. I was yesterday in an asylum accommodation, and the head of the accommodation said that he would like to employ the people but that it was not possible to find a good solution for how it would be organised. It would be very good if people could not only get a job outside the asylum accommodation but also be employed in the asylum accommodation. We should be able to find some solutions there. We have proposed in the asylum programme that people should be able to work at asylum homes with different types of employment and that people should be able to work in non-profit companies. Perhaps they could work in the municipality, with internships, and also in the regular labour market. I therefore believe that we must open up employment opportunities during the period of asylum. The Government says that we should also invest in educations, and that is good. However, at Arbetsförmedlingen it is said that a lot of these people find it difficult to take on education, and then we also need to have it in the back of our head – is it really supposed to be education, or can we find other ways to get into the labour market? If you look at the figures at the end of the year, as we have done, you can see that the Public Employment Service could show that 14 000 people who were previously involved in the employment phase have been enrolled in the Public Employment Service. Of them, 3,000 had no registered activity at all. That's a lot of people. 3 000 people had no registered activity. 4 000 were included in the matching and follow-up programme, where – as the Government is talking about – it should be individual help. This has, in principle, meant a meeting of administrators at most every two or three months. Is this enough? We know that a great many social and cooperative enterprises have unfortunately been closed down. They have had to finish their activities because the employment phase disappeared, and I think that is a bit of a pity. They did a very good job of breaking the isolation. I think the average was about eight years for how long you had been unemployed before you entered the employment phase of the Alliance. We agree that it wasn't always the best thing and that all these companies were really not good – we agree – but I think it's a shame that the government threw the baby out with the bathwater. I would therefore like to have some more comments about the people who are now registered with the Employment Service and do not really have any registered activities. What does the Minister intend to do for that group? Is that enough, and will social and cooperative enterprises be able to have better resources in the future?
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-32	Madam President, I would like Let me first simply state what I also said in my interpellation response, namely that it is totally unacceptable for people to stand for a longer period of time without effort and support. That is not acceptable. That's not how it should work at Arbetsförmedlingen. It is of course an important task for Arbetsförmedlingen itself to review how to organize your work and use the resources you have. In fact, it is not a mission that a minister should be in and regulate in detail, but it is not acceptable for people to go for a longer time without effort or sensible support. That's not how it's supposed to be at Arbetsförmedlingen. Not all of them, but many of those who are long-term unemployed have inadequate training or so old professional skills or experience that it needs to be refreshed. In fact, I have been surprised that we have seen so few people who have moved on to education despite the fact that we have created new opportunities for this. One reason I myself meet when I'm out talking to people is the personal economy. You don't want to take out a loan to study. You do not dare because you are unsure whether it will really lead to work to take the great personal risk you feel it is to go into debt. Many are also weakly motivated and do not know which education to attend or whether they will pass an education. I think there are two things that are needed to remedy this. One is to make better use of the preparatory training courses at Arbetsförmedlingen. This is also being done more today; it is being used more as a way for people to orient themselves in terms of what education they should move on to. I think that's good. It is like a preparatory step, and it is taken with the continued remuneration of the Employment Service. For those who will then move on to regular education, which is a good idea for a lot of people, the government is now introducing a start-up grant aimed at the long-term unemployed with a short education. This means that you can afford to train without taking out a loan. I think that will mean a great deal to many individuals. I really hope so. I believe that the personal economy has been an important threshold that has been difficult for individuals to get over and go into education. Regular education is not for everyone, but for many it is an important step. I can come back to this with work during the asylum period, but I would like to comment on the work-integrated social enterprises. Désirée Pethrus knows – we have talked about it many times before – that I want to see employment integration social enterprises take a greater role in labour market policy. We have not seen it happen, but on the contrary, many labour-integrated social enterprises feel that it has now become more difficult to get more forward with the Public Employment Service. I hope that the new legislation that came into force on 1 January will make it possible to award targeted contracts – so-called reserved contracts. It is now permitted for Arbetsförmedlingen to procure specifically for work integration social enterprises. So far, the Public Employment Service has treated them just like any company in the procurement context, but now, thanks to Parliament's decision, there is a completely new legal possibility to procure in a different way. I hope it will be exploited. There are no official statistics on the number of labour integration social enterprises, but the Swedish Agency for Growth still does some measurements. There is some uncertainty in those measurements, but they show that there are very many work-inclusive social enterprises. You now look at how they can become more. We have given targeted money to the Swedish Agency for Growth, which has set the goal of increasing the number of employment-integrated social enterprises by 10 per cent, of increasing the number of employees in these companies by 15 per cent and of increasing the number of employees in these companies by 15 per cent by December 2018. The Swedish Agency for Growth has thus set clear and quantitative targets. It is important to see that not only labour market policies but also other bones are needed to ensure the stability of work-inclusive social enterprises.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-40	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I think it is good if we agree that work integration social enterprises should have more resources and more opportunities. V i are several members of the Christian Democrats who are pushing the issue quite hard, and we will continue to lie on the government. We believe that these are important companies. It is Lutherhjälpen and Blåeld, for example, and they help people who find it difficult to get into work. They can offer an alternative working community compared to ordinary businesses, and there will be a slightly softer transition to working life where people will have to test their abilities. We also believe – as we have mentioned before – that the Employment Service needs to be reformed. It is a little bigger, but we believe that a reform of the Public Employment Service could find different companies, organisations, trade unions and social and cooperative companies that can help coach people to other employment opportunities. We need to open up. We don't think the Arbetsförmedlingen is the only funnel that everyone should go through. We are living in a new age, where people need better support and help. We cannot afford to have people outside the labour market for this long. We cannot afford that 30% are still unemployed 15 years after they arrived in Sweden. We can't afford to be human either. We know that ill-health is increasing among people who are long-term unemployed and on sick leave. Long-term unemployment is increasing. My last question is: what is the Government doing about it? Long-term sick leave is also increasing. It's a very negative development that we're seeing right now. How do the Government and the Government see doing more preventively here?
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-45	Madam President, I would like I'll start with the last question. We see a very clear pattern of long-term unemployment. The reason it is increasing is that we have a record number of people on the start-up mission, and unfortunately it is still about half that goes from the start-up mission to long-term unemployment. This is the major reason for the increase, and this is where we have to put the effort. It is about improving the work within the start-up assignment for new arrivals. There will soon be a proposal to the Riksdag on changes, simplifications and streamlining of the start-up assignment. This is the big, important issue. When I took office, 27 per cent went on to work or studies after two years. Now it's up to 33%, so it's an improvement. This is good, given that it is also about increased volumes, but at the same time it is far too low in relation to my ambition level. In terms of prevention, it is very important to get the time in the start-up assignment to be much more effective. This is the focus to prevent inflows into long-term unemployment. I share the positive view of complementary actors. Arbetsförmedlingen works with several of these and has large resources. Many people are being assisted by complementary players today. I think we have the same view on this. The challenge also relates to how we can ensure that labour-integrated social enterprises can become an essential part of this, when they sometimes find it difficult to compete with private companies, which follow a different logic. As I said earlier, I hope that the Employment Service will make use of the new legislation. However, I am doubtful that the government will identify the authority to procure from – it is reasonably the authority's competence to decide on this. However, a new tool is now available. We will have to do more for this group. It is quite clear that what is happening today is not enough. I'm not happy, so more needs to be done. I also look forward to continuing to debate this with Mrs Pethrus.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-53	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Svantesson has asked me why I and the government have delayed acting in order that children who have been married abroad should not be considered married when they come to Sweden and what measures I and the government have taken for the 132 married children that the Migration Agency announced a year ago are in Sweden. The issue of children who come to Sweden and who are said to be married is extremely important and a high priority for me and for the government. Children have the right to be children regardless of their background. In a number of contexts, I have expressed my firm view that child marriage restricts the individual's ability to assimilate his or her human rights. These include the right to play and leisure, the right to life and development and the right to education, as well as protection against violence, exploitation, abuse and trafficking in human beings. The basic idea is that children in Sweden should not be married, not be considered married and not treated as married. This means that children who come to Sweden, as unaccompanied minors or together with their parents, must be guaranteed rights and handled on the same principles as other children, regardless of whether the child is said to be married or not. Knowing the risks of child marriage, there is a need for special social support and protection measures. The government has therefore decided on a series of measures aimed at strengthening support and protection for these children. An important part of the work against child marriage and forced marriage is the existence of effective and effective legislation. Despite the legislative changes implemented in 2014 with a view to more effectively counteracting child and forced marriages, there is much evidence that the actual incidence of child and forced marriages has not decreased, but slightly increased, including as a result of the large number of asylum seekers in recent times. The Government has therefore assigned a special investigator to review the civil and criminal law framework. The investigator shall evaluate, inter alia, the application of the penal provisions on forced and misleading marriage and analyse and assess how the possibility of recognising foreign child marriages should be further limited, in particular in relation to child marriages concluded prior to arrival in Sweden. The Government considers that the part of the mandate relating to the civil law framework, i.e. the recognition of foreign child marriages, needs to be dealt with in a particularly urgent manner and should be reported in an interim report by 6 December 2017. Another important part of the work against child and forced marriages is that there is an equal and legally secure practice in all municipalities around the country, based on a child law perspective. It is the task of the social services to investigate and assess the needs of the child in accordance with the Social Services Act. The fact that children are treated differently in the light of municipal differences is not acceptable. The Government has commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to analyse the treatment of social services in matters relating to children who have arrived in Sweden and who are said to be married. The assignment includes the development and dissemination of strengthened guidance to municipalities and the development and dissemination of information to children who are said to be married and to their relatives about existing laws and practices, such as the prohibition of child and forced marriages, the mission of social services and the child's right to support and protection. In addition, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with identifying the extent of, among other things, child marriage and forced marriage in Sweden. Child marriage poses a serious risk of violating the rights of the child. With these measures, the government wants to ensure that all children in Sweden receive the protection and support to which they are entitled.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-63	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Child marriage is a serious violation of children's rights. The Convention on the Rights of the Child says that all states should take all measures to abolish traditional practices that are harmful to children's health. This is also one of the UN's development objectives in Agenda 2030. There are many reasons why child marriage is a violation. Of course, it is about young girls, and sometimes boys, not being ready to make a decision about marriage. Many are missing out on education and future career opportunities. You risk your health in connection with pregnancies and births for which the young bodies are not at all mature. Children's wives are also more exposed to domestic violence than women who have married in adulthood. So there are a number of reasons why child marriage constitutes a serious violation of children's rights. Let me give an example, Madam President, that violence is common in the case of young girls who marry. A year ago, just a few kilometers from where I live in the south, 16-year-old Marzieh was found. She had been dead for months. She was found under the moss. She was murdered, very likely by the 38-year-old man who is also claimed to be her husband. She was reported missing. But really, Madam President, no one was looking for her. There was no search chain in the woods when she disappeared. I didn't hear from any relatives. This was a young married girl who was murdered. Her husband is wanted but is now not in Sweden. One would believe and hope that child marriage is only a matter for poor countries, but unfortunately that is not the case. As in Marziehs's case, there are married children here. The Migration Board wrote a report last year that showed that they could find 132 cases of children who were married. But then let us remember, Madam President, that it was about children who had themselves stated to the Migration Board that they were married. So they had not answered a question if that was the case. We know that there are considerably more than 132 children who are married in Sweden. When Malmö Municipality was going to do a survey, they only found 65 children who were married in their municipality. Then you can imagine that there are very many more children who are married in Sweden. Madam President, I would like I mean, this is outrageous. We have a feminist government, at least that's what it calls itself. One should have put the girls in the centre and found out how many married children there really are in Sweden as soon as one has learned about the Migration Agency's tasks. What is the situation with regard to the children whom we now know for sure are married? That is a question to which I do not get an answer, Madam President, but I would like to know. First of all, why does a feminist government not put children first and find out how many are married? And what does the government know about the children we know are married in Sweden?
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-76	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elisabeth Svantesson, for this important question! I have no other idea why child marriage is as terrible as it is. Child marriage is primarily to control girls' sexuality, their right to their own sexuality, their life, education, fertility – the list can be made long. I agree with Elisabeth Svantesson that the terrible consequences she lists all exist. They were also in 2014 and before that, so I would like to know why you did not do more yourself when you had government power and changed the legislation that we are now reviewing. As I said, we have now commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to map out honour-related violence and also child marriage at all. We have done a lot during this term of office to strengthen the protection of children, not least children who are said to be married. For me, it is important to point out time and again that no child in Sweden should be married, considered married or treated as married. When a child is placed in a municipality, it should be considered as an unaccompanied minor if it does not have a guardian with it. This means a series of rights, rights to housing, to education and, above all, to time to think through what you want to do with your life. Therefore, of course, I have had many and long discussions with the County Administrative Board in Östergötland, which has the task of supporting municipalities in this work, with SKL, who is responsible for how the municipalities work with this through, among other things, social services, with the National Board of Health and Welfare and with the Migration Agency and the acting manager a short time ago to hear what they have done since they wrote their own report a year ago. We have also had collections of honour-related violence with the relevant authorities and very recently a large meeting with leaders of the police, the Migration Agency, the National Board of Health and Welfare and other relevant authorities to inculcate the importance of working against honor-related violence and supporting these girls. Moreover, we have made a great deal of effort in social care for children and young people, which you unfortunately left behind in a fragile state. Among other things, we have set aside 250 million a year to support staffing in social care for children and young people. We have added 10 welfare billions to municipalities and county councils. We have presented a strategy on violence against women, which focuses on honour-related violence and on prevention of honor-related violence. We will soon set up a knowledge centre for unaccompanied minors, to which these children belong. It will be a task for the National Board of Health and Welfare to work with knowledge and support for those who meet these children and will manage their lives. As I said, the National Board of Health and Welfare has also been tasked with analysing the handling of these children, how to better support them and identify violence. We have also, as I said, set up an investigation to review the relatively new legislation from 2014. Unfortunately, many experts in the UN and elsewhere say that child marriages in connection with armed conflicts, not least that in Syria, appear to have increased in the world. Therefore, it is incredibly important to hold talks also at a global level, not least about sexual and reproductive rights and girls' right to their own body, life, education and life choices.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-87	Madam President, I would like That's a lot of words. Here and now there are children who are married. They can't wait for all the investigations and surveys. I don't think they're listening to this debate right now and hearing about all the excellent things this government is doing. They need help right now. I think of the children in Malmö, who were 65. Only 4 of them were moved from the ones they were married to. Then it's obviously something that doesn't work properly. The Minister mentions 2014. In 2014, the Alliance presented legislation that meant that you would not be able to go abroad and get married. We made many improvements in this area. We should definitely have done more. However, it should be said in the name of humility that many of the problems we see now during the strong migration of asylum we did not see in 2014. I am absolutely prepared to say that it was wrong, but now it is actually Minister for Gender Equality Åsa Regnér who is responsible for these children. Then she can't just look back a few years and blame others. Here and now, these children are affected. What upsets me most in these discussions in general is the double standards that we use with regard to these children. The girl found dead in Hökarängen we hardly talk about, and the girls who are young and married to their cousins we talk about very little. If it had been Swedish children, I am sure there would have been another speed here in Parliament. Madam President, I would like I would just like, as an example, to read out two sentences from a judgment that came from the Administrative Court in February. The case became quite known in the media. A 14-year-old girl was married to her cousin and pregnant. Social Services wanted to place her forcibly. The Administrative Court then annulled the decision and wrote in the judgment as follows: It has emerged in the hearing that the girl– I do not say her name– is one of Swedish measurements of precocious girl with strong self-will and who has a firm foundation in her religion and in the culture in which she grew up. For me, it is appalling to read that a Swedish court turns this young girl into an adult woman. We all agree that it is wrong for adults who want to call themselves unaccompanied children and who lie about their age. But here's a young girl who's grown up by the court. The fact that she's pregnant and she's about to have a baby doesn't make her any more an adult. Minus one plus minus one will not be plus in this case; it will be even more minus. It's a double problem. The government must be even clearer here. You can stand in the Chamber and emphasise how important this is, and you can read a lot of things from your budget proposal. But why has it taken so long for the government? Only when the Alliance pressed on in the Civil Committee to close the gaps in the legislation did the government set in motion. Why does the government not know today how many children are married in Sweden? This is a problem that exists here and now. These girls are affected here and now. And we cannot have one yardstick for these children and another for other children. They must be treated like any other child. I am not going to give any explanation as to why it has become this way. I merely state that it is outrageous and a violation of these children. I do not expect the Minister and the Government to look back to 2014 and say that this was the case then. These kids have come here and are here now. They are affected and their rights are violated. Then the government must act.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-97	Madam President, I would like It has not been easy to meet these demands, because, as Elisabeth Svantesson says, we did not know many of these problems when existing legislation was written in 2014. Much happened with the large influx of refugees in the autumn of 2015 and around. When there were a lot of people who needed support from both the municipality and the Migration Agency, the social services had difficulty investigating everyone individually; that was the case. This was due, among other things, to the fact that social services were in a fragile state when we took over government power. It was also because very many came at once. That is why we have worked hard to support social care for children and young people. When Elisabeth Svantesson and I were in New York last week, a meeting was held which was led by my State Secretary and which we have every year with all the parties responsible for social care for children and young people. We see that a lot is happening now, but it takes time to repair. It is also important to keep a constant eye on equality. The fact that girls, whatever their background, have the same rights as boys and other girls has driven my entire political commitment. Therefore, the police and the judiciary should look at children in the same way, they should look at girls and boys in the same way and they should look at girls in the same way regardless of background. I have said this several times and already twice in this debate. What have we done to strengthen this? Among other things, we recently made a decision regarding academic education where people in their profession meet vulnerable children or people affected by violence by relatives, which is often women and children. The decision means that in educations to lawyers, doctors, dentists and sociologists, for example, you should have knowledge of violence so that you do not express yourself prejudicedly. I am not going to review judgments, but it is important that you bring with you a basic knowledge of violence in various forms, including honour-related violence, and that you see how you can support vulnerable people from the beginning. We have also done other things with regard to social services. For example, we have contributed a national introduction so that newly graduated social security officers feel safer at work and can deal with the matters they need. We have strengthened the work of social services in many ways, and we have certainly not waited in any way. However, it takes time to review legislation, because according to Swedish tradition it must first be investigated. I have already listed a number of measures that we have taken to support these girls. Among other things, the County Administrative Board Östergötland has been tasked by the Government to support actors who in turn meet these children. This is an urgent matter for me. An important complement is to cooperate in various ways through Swedish aid and in foreign policy contacts with those countries that think like Sweden in terms of sexual and reproductive rights and health and gender equality. Unfortunately, we are living at a time when the rights of girls and women are being attacked. Then we need to work together internationally to also support girls living in the countries of origin where this is common, and unfortunately this practice seems to have increased rather than decreased.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-106	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister. I do not doubt the Minister's ambitions, and I share the view that there is much to be done at international level. Unfortunately, however, these customs and traditions have moved here, and we need to deal with it better than today. I'll send some good advice to the government. First of all, I think you should find out what the situation is right now. How many married children do we have in Sweden? You have to ask these girls that question. Second, I'm thinking about the 132 married children. It is argued that, from the point of view of private law, they cannot be cancelled because they are married and must therefore be accepted. But from what I have read, and I may be wrong, in one case there is no written documentation, no marriage certificate. How on earth can we approve of these marriages when there is no record? I want to hear how the minister sees it. This could make things easier. Do we really have to wait for legislation? These children must be separated from their husbands and cared for, especially when children are pregnant. It's a serious question. It is serious in the world, but it is also serious in Sweden. We must not have double standards. I expect the government to do more, to find out what the situation is and to quickly come up with the legislation that these girls, and in some cases also boys, need.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-112	Madam President, I would like As I have said a number of times, we are currently mapping this. It is not me or the government that approves these marriages, but it is the task of the Tax Agency. As far as I know, according to my own information, no such marriages have been approved in recent times. What is particularly important for every child here and now is that the Migration Agency is extremely aware of this and that the municipalities are given time and opportunity to investigate every child to be placed. Therefore, on several occasions I have met with the current head of the Migration Agency, the chairman of SKL and several representatives of SKL and the National Board of Health and Welfare to talk about this, and I also often visit social services. I have relatively long experience of global gender equality work and know that it can take a long time before a child feels confidence in adults around him, especially for adults whom the child has not met before, in a foreign country and in another language and before the child understands that everything is for her or him and she or he has the right and the opportunity to say: I want to educate myself on this, I want to live like this, I want to live with this person or not. This requires a lot of time and space in the social services, and I have made all these efforts for the social care of children and young people in order for all children to have this opportunity. Then we give these children the tools that my children get and that all children in Sweden are entitled to.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-117	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has asked me if I and the government are behind a regulation that young people placed in assisted housing should not have to share a room. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has also asked me how I and the government intend this to help the municipalities in their work to get a large number of homes in a short time. On 1 January 2016, the form of investment was introduced for supporting housing for children and young people aged 16 to 20. Possible target groups are children and young people who have previously been placed or who live in an unsatisfactory home environment as well as unaccompanied children and young people. The Government considered it urgent that more forms of placement be available for children and young people who respond to the actual needs of children and young people. The municipalities also asked for more alternatives for additional forms of investment. Supported housing was therefore introduced as a complementary legal investment option for children and young people who do not need care and treatment interventions that justify placement in family homes or homes for care or housing. The proposal shows that the main purpose of the new form of placement is to train and prepare the child or young person for independent living and adult life in a safe way and that it is best achieved by having a child or young person's own accommodation. With their own accommodation, the Government refers to housing that is more independent than HVB, i.e. that the child or the young person lives in an apartment or in a similar housing solution. Municipalities have the opportunity to make support housing available through other housing solutions. It can be student corridors or similar accommodation in connection with a folk high school. Thus, a person's own housing does not exclude a shared living with other children or young people who are placed in assisted housing, as is also stated in the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations and general guidelines on support housing. So it is already possible to share rooms in some cases. On behalf of the Government, the National Board of Health and Welfare follows up and evaluates the new form of investment. At the end of November 2016, the National Board of Health and Welfare submitted a partial report describing the work of municipalities in starting up assisted housing. Among other things, there are difficulties in finding suitable premises, which is largely considered to be due to an already strained situation in the housing market. In addition, the placement of children in different forms of investment, including support housing, shall be based on an individual assessment based on the best interests of the child, in accordance with the Social Services Act. This means that the needs of assisted housing can shift for different municipalities and over time. In 2016, a total of 140 municipalities started supporting housing. The trend is that more and more supported housing is started at a faster pace. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's impression is that all municipalities aim to have access to assisted housing in July 2017, when the new compensation system for the reception of unaccompanied children and young people enters into force. These are positive signals. The form of housing support has been around for over a year. More time is needed to evaluate the form of placement and to know how it responds to the needs of girls and boys. The government therefore continues to follow these developments closely.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-128	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I can understand very well that municipalities want alternatives, and of course I sympathise with the idea of finding solutions. The fact that the government introduced a form of housing on 1 January 2016 called assisted housing is good. What becomes problematic, however, is what I was trying to talk about in my question. When the proposal, as it is designed, is to be translated into reality and it reaches out to municipalities and officials, who are to solve the task of the children who are in the situation of need of an assisted living home, the officials read the law. § 2 of the Act states that in the event of placement in an assisted dwelling, the child or the young child... must have his or her own accommodation. It also says: a support accommodation must be home-like and consist of rooms for accommodation, room for cooking and meals, and rooms for personal hygiene. ..................................................... If you continue to read the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations and general advice on home care or housing, you can see that it says: ..................................................... Then we come to this. Simple means that people who, for example, have lived in HVB homes for two years and are going on to an assisted living room can go from living two per room, according to it If you are an official and want to comply with the law, you say: We must find accommodation where you live one by one, according to the law. If you read about the purpose of having your own accommodation, it is, as the Minister himself said, to train to have your own independent living. In view of the reality of the housing market, I wonder whether this has been taken into account and why it was then decided to have general advice and regulations in the parts that make HVB homes, but not assisted housing, have received this. It is clear that you should be able to share rooms in HVB homes, but not in assisted housing. What is the overall view of the Minister that different parts of public society will to some extent counteract each other? We have municipalities that are trying to solve a difficult housing situation, and we have authorities that one might think set unreasonable quality requirements in this situation. As the Minister said in his reply, this problem was pointed out in November in the country and that the issue should be followed. For me, however, the question remains as to whether or not to do so. That would be an opportunity. In the best of worlds, everyone can get what they're supposed to have, but we're not really there.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-140	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. We are now in a situation after 2015, when many refugees came to Sweden at the same time. Now we have come so far that we have been able to investigate many of the unaccompanied children in social services, and you get clearer what each child has needs, as it is supposed that the Social Services Act will work. However, before 2015, it had already been identified, and there were also proposals for investigation, that there was a need to introduce a further form of placement because it was felt that family homes and HVB homes did not respond to needs that the oldest children in particular sometimes have when it comes to being able to practice living independently and taking more responsibility but still have opportunities for contact with and support from adults. Therefore, the form of assisted housing was proposed. When the large influx of refugees took place in 2015, one saw that some of the children were older and that many had major problems with them, were traumatized and had great individual needs in other ways. Others did not but were much more inclined to set up an independent life with studies and were in different ways very motivated and stable when it comes to being able to enter Swedish education, the labour market or whatever it is. For both of these reasons, the form of assisted housing was introduced. The idea of supporting housing is that it should be possible to offer those children who are perceived to be able to cope with such a form and who need this step before they are fully grown and can live for themselves. There are no legal obstacles to two people living in the same room, if all parties think it is good. We have a system where it's not the minister who's going to say how many children are going to live in each room. I shall also not have any comments on the instructions of the National Board of Health and Welfare in this context. However, there are no legal obstacles. It may be a question of siblings who want to live together or of two other individuals who are individually considered to be able to live in assisted housing and where everyone involved thinks it is a good solution. Reality in terms of the integration and reception of persons, especially those who came in 2015, remains strained at all. The housing market is such a strained part of society. The government has therefore launched a series of initiatives to support construction. It'll take a while, and I'm aware of that. But I am also aware that more and more municipalities are trying to find and also find solutions to offer support housing.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-148	Madam President, I would like I was going to do what Elisabeth Svantesson did in the previous debate, namely take an example from reality. It goes a little beyond this, but at the same time it is based on the part where it is said that young adults are present in Sweden. Our authorities are not really designed to cope with the pressure that has existed. Sometimes, from the outside, one might think that there is not the flexibility and common sense that one would like in these parts, and this comes back when we discuss further support housing. In one municipality there were young people who would live together in everyday life. It started well; they could go out in the kitchen and prepare their food. This eventually led the environmental association that had to watch over this largely – figuratively and with symbolic value – to put yellow tape with black stripes around the kitchen, as forbidden land to enter. As a result, these people were no longer able to feed themselves. Instead, they had to bring in staff to cook for them. This means that they would have been able to practice and get what they need to take care of everyday life – what do I do from what I get up in the morning until I go to bed in the evening – and to prepare their food. This accommodation was a large house that was really very homelike. It was not at all an institution you create and where you start talking about which parts would be removed in the interior, such as carpets and laundry that we have in our homes for it to work. All of this together means that we make sure that people who could do a job for themselves, learn, practice and see the whole everyday life as an example of how it could work when they go on in their lives. With that as a background, I want to go into the part about independent living. In the best of worlds, it works as I said. The government itself says that you have to build, and you have to, because we have the problem with housing. I can make the interpretation that this is quite possible and that in some cases it is possible to share rooms in assisted housing. You can come to the conclusion that you are in a situation where everyone says yes. But all of a sudden this is being tried legally, and so it is said that this is wrong. It may come to a situation where it is legally said that there will be a penalty for the municipality because it has broken the law, because it does not say as I read out, that you have the possibility with this, but you have to make an interpretation based on something that is not there. This is easy to say in theory, but if you come out in reality you do not want to take these steps and experience that you have done wrong. You want to do the right thing. This complicates things: On the one hand, it is said that this is possible, on the other hand, it does not work according to the law. So what do we do? Then you're stuck in the same dilemma. That is why I have asked the question whether, in such a situation, it is not sensible and reasonable to have one, even for assisted housing, under conditions that allow everyone to participate.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-157	Madam President, I would like Interpellations are meant for the government to be audited by the members of parliament. Members of Parliament then know that ministers should not speak about how legislation should be interpreted. I can only read inside when it comes to how the National Board of Health and Welfare has expressed itself around this. This is a new legislation on assisted housing, and it can be tested. But the idea of support housing is that they should be for the oldest children, who are deemed stable and able to stand on their own feet quite a lot, but are still children. This applies to children who appear to be mature, seem to be eager to live alone and whatever criteria the social welfare board thinks the children should meet in order to live in an assisted housing. As I said, there is nothing that makes it impossible to live two people, but there should still be two people who can stand on their own feet. It will come within the framework of these assessments. I can't say more than that.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-159	Madam President, I would like This is precisely the problem. I have to ask if this is how I should interpret it as a Member of Parliament. I know that the Minister cannot respond to interpretations, but the Minister's reply states that this is possible if all parties are involved. That's how I have to interpret what it says. This can in some cases be done in assisted housing. It is now said here that there is nothing to prevent this from being done. Nevertheless, there is something else in the legislation. Even if this is the way it is supposed to be, it does not help to solve the problem when it is not solved. Nevertheless, I would like to know whether the government and the Minister are taking this issue with them and wondering whether it is not the case that one should be necessary in order for this to be possible.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-161	Madam President, I would like The legislation is neither to be interpreted nor examined by me. I will follow developments. I am sure that support housing is needed in the palette of social services to support children who need housing.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-162	Madam President, I would like Thomas Finnborg has asked me whether I share the view that it is serious that the number of car goaltenders is not decreasing and that there is a need for a review of today's legislation and what measures I and the government intend to take to address the increasing problem of car target guards and the increasing debt of vehicles. I share Thomas Finnborg's view that it is a serious problem that the number of vehicle goaltenders has not decreased and that vehicle-related debts are increasing. I have also noted that on 2 March this year, Parliament called on the government to review the possibility of tightening up legislation against vehicle goaltenders. It is important to correct any shortcomings in the legislation in order for it to have the intended effect. The government is closely monitoring the development of vehicle-related debt and is in dialogue with the relevant authorities on the matter. Within the Government Office, work is currently under way to review the need for further action in this area. The Government intends to return to Parliament on the matter.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-165	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. At the turn of the year, the vehicle-related debts according to the enforcement officer amounted to just over 2.2 billion, which was more than ever. The increase is mainly due to a group of around 100 people, which are currently considered to be car goalkeepers. These account for just over SEK 400 million in debt, which makes up one fifth of total debt. An individual owes as much as 62 million. In January 2017, there were 152 persons in the Road Traffic Register who were registered as owners of more than 100 passenger cars or lorries. At most, one person was registered to 3,595 vehicles. The Alliance Government introduced a new provision and law that became applicable on 1 July 2014. According to this law, the enforcement officer can now claim vehicles for claims relating to certain taxes and charges. However, the law has almost proved ineffective. Far too few cars have been seized or moved since the law came into force. According to the bailiff's information, only 26 vehicles had been used by the end of last year, which speaks clearly. The bailiff states that this is due to a shortage of staff. In the answer to a written question, the Government wrote in January that the Government will follow developments. I don't think that's good enough. Action is needed here and now. My question is: what steps will the Government take to ensure that the authorities carry out their duties?
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-169	Madam President, I would like This is an important issue from a number of points of view. An important aspect, of course, is some kind of general maintenance of order. People should take responsibility for their debts, and we should have a high moral responsibility to pay the right taxes and charges. The government has made many efforts to ensure that we get the taxes that citizens have to pay and so on. This is another such issue. Ultimately, it is a matter of maintaining respect for the rules that we have jointly decided on. But there are also other aspects. It is about road safety and taking up valuable land; these vehicles are often parked for a very large part of the time. It's also about some kind of general experience that there's a mess in the system. So this is an important issue. What has happened since the last time is that we have moved on and started to look at what is really the problem. It would have been great if the Alliance government had taken this initiative a little earlier in its period; it did not happen until March of the last year of government. The problem has been longer than that, we can see that. Nevertheless, it is a good piece of legislation. I believe that a major first step in identifying new measures is to describe how existing legislation is used. It may seem an easy way to go directly into adjusting the legislation, but then we also need to know that it is not the application of the legislation that is lacking. There are examples around the country that good forms of cooperation have been found between municipalities, the Kronofogdemyndigheten, the tax authority and also, of course, the police and have achieved much better results than in many other places. I think we should look at what has been done in the places and parts of the country where it has worked. Are there working methods that can be spread to more people? I will mention a problem that has been highlighted in connection with this. One of the ideas behind this legislation was that it would be possible to pay for the operation by selling the vehicles seized, because the vehicles would have access to them. However, it has been shown that most of the vehicles have a very low market value. It has therefore not been possible to use the legislation in this way. As I said at the end of the interpellation response, work is under way to review the need for further action. I believe that the first step is to see how existing legislation is applied and whether there is more to be done within the framework of existing legislation. But the government is no stranger to also looking at whether the legislation itself as such needs to be adjusted.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-175	Madam President, I would like Today there is a great lack of clarity between the authorities as to who is actually doing what. The police are often looking for vehicles related to crime, and the bailiff is not looking for active vehicles because the value of the cars is often low. Today, cars must have a value of over SEK 5 000 in order for the bailiff to be able to act. The positive thing about it, as the Minister mentioned here, is that the parking offices in Malmö and Gothenburg have improved their operations and removed a number of vehicles. The fact that the value of the car exceeds SEK 5 000 in order for the authority to act must be reconsidered. Today we can see that many homeless people use cars as homes. Most often, these cars have a value of SEK 5 000 registered to car goalkeepers. Even many addicts, as the Minister said, drive around in cars that are poor and lack insurance and that also belong to car goalkeepers. In reply to my previous written question, the Government indicated that more far-reaching measures against vehicle goaltenders could entail restrictions on ownership. Then I was a little surprised. My question is: does the Government believe that ownership is more important than prosecuting car keepers who have a debt to society of about 2.2 billion?
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-178	Madam President, I would like No, the Government considers it extremely important to tackle the problem. However, we shall ensure that we do so in a way that is proportionate to the scale of the problem and, above all, in a way that does not cause us to create other problems for people who are completely innocent in this context. We will try to have regulations, legislation and enforcement that as far as possible tackle the problem we are experiencing and limit the lives of other citizens as little as possible. There, for example, is the proposal to limit the number of cars that you have the right to have registered on a proposal where we need to take into account the negative consequences that such a proposal would have. Nevertheless, there are people who have very legitimate reasons to own more vehicles. Problems can also arise when buying a car. If you simply sell your car to someone who has no right to have more, what happens? There are some legal aspects to what should be considered. In the further work we will lift all kinds of stones to see if there are more measures that are proportionate and relevant to the problem and investigate them as far as possible. However, we should not do things that may not have the intended effect on the problem that we have identified but have serious negative consequences for innocent other citizens.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-181	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that answer. If we have a system that allows individuals to own any number of vehicles and some people then refrain from paying taxes, charges and other things, we undermine the morale of the other vehicle owners who are liable to pay their share. It should be possible, in addition to being able to seize these vehicles, to prosecute those who use the vehicles, because it is usually they who use the car goalkeeper to send all the bills to. Finally, I would like to say that it was positive that an announcement was made. There is a majority in the Riksdag that believes that more stringent measures are needed against car goalkeepers. It is also positive that the Government and the Government consider it important to review the legislation and improve the cooperation between the authorities. Now is the time to move from words to action.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-183	Madam President, I would like I can further welcome Thomas Finnborg by saying that this was a problem that we had started to work on and look at before the announcement. It is an issue where there is a very broad political consensus both that the problem is serious and that we need to take action to curb it. Cloun is just finding the right measures to solve the problem without giving rise to negative unwanted consequences for other citizens. We will continue to look at this issue. I think this might take some time. It is quite complex legal issues that need to be resolved. But we will definitely put more gunpowder into tackling the problem. The first step should reasonably be to ensure full use of existing legislation. I believe that there is much to learn from those who have found good forms of cooperation where there is certainly also the dissemination of experience which could in any case be a first step. If we then need other measures, we will come back to that. But first and foremost, we must ensure that the application of existing legislation works satisfactorily.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-186	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder has asked me how I am planning to act to prevent companies' tax burden from leaving jobs and whether I am prepared to take the initiative to put pressure on companies to make employers' contributions visible to workers. Sweden is a small, open economy in a global environment. The prerequisites for Swedish companies to grow and expand in an internationally competitive market are significant for employment, growth and the Swedish welfare society. There are a number of different factors affecting the investment decisions of companies and the business environment in the country. The Government's industrial policy aims to make it easier for companies to develop and operate. The Swedish economy is strong. Growth has stabilised at one of the highest levels in Europe. Since this government took office, 150 000 more people have a job to go to, and unemployment has been pushed below 7%. Several international studies show that the companies in Sweden have very good conditions and framework conditions in relation to the outside world. According to, for example, the World Competitiveness Scoreboard, Sweden came to a fifth place last year, which is an improvement with four investments from the previous year. According to the World Bank's Doing Business Index, which measures how easy it is to start, run and close companies, Sweden ended up in an eighth place last year, which is an improvement with three investments from the previous year. And according to Forbes, Sweden has the best business environment in the world. The government is also working to support the development of Swedish industry. In a broader perspective, we now see a trend break with increased investments and more companies that choose to move home production to Sweden. Technology companies also reported that in 2015 more people were employed in Sweden than in the rest of the world. The government has presented a first Smart Industry Action Plan with 45 concrete measures to promote this development. The government has recently developed a flight strategy. A focus area of the strategy is fair conditions and fair competition in the aviation industry. The government is working within the EU and ICAO to improve legislation, uniform application and interaction between Member States. Sweden does not control either collective agreements or tax rates in other countries. When it comes to operations outside Sweden, it is by pushing for better conditions at international level that we can work against poor working conditions and even out competitive conditions. I share the view that the visibility and transparency of the tax system is important and that it is an advantage if the citizens are aware of the nature of the levy and what taxes are used for.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-192	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I highlighted the issue of the cost of hiring because we quite often read about companies that move all or part of their business abroad. What I last read about was SAS, which meant that I wrote the interpellation myself. SAS, which is one of the State's partly owned companies, chooses to move part of its business abroad. State-owned companies, if any, should be able to resist moving jobs abroad, I think. All the most frequently indicated costs of having employees as a reason, as did SAS in its statement. Sweden, compared to the OECD average, has a very high employer's contribution, which has these sad consequences that we are now seeing in the case of SAS. In addition to the obvious disappearance of jobs abroad, there are studies showing that Swedish citizens have poor knowledge of how high the tax charge is. This brings less legitimacy to the tax system we have and distorts the debate on taxes and levels of taxation. It should be clear that we need to show this to employees even on pay slips in order to gain more knowledge about that part of the tax charge. I am pleased that the Minister highlights the need to harmonise the rules in Europe, which I believe is necessary for the survival and development of Swedish companies. Lesson number one should then be that you do not create new rules of your own that only affect the Swedish labour force. This is the wrong way to create a special tax, such as the airline tax in Sweden. It is a tax that has already been criticised from many quarters and which leads to jobs being moved from Sweden, which I think it does. We in Sweden are extremely good at creating our own taxes that put the burden on companies even more than on their competitors in Europe. The Minister points out that several international studies show that companies in Sweden have very good conditions and framework conditions in relation to the outside world. That's, of course, great. But I'm also worried about all the companies that never see the light of day because of the fear of failure. The Global Entrepreneurship Monitor shows that 35 percent of those in the 18-64 age group in Sweden who have considered themselves to have a defined business opportunity have chosen to refrain from creating a company because of fear of failure. Here, we need to take steps, among other things, to ensure that the responsibility of the representative does not stand in the way – something that the government is delaying even though there is an announcement from the Riksdag from 2015. That is regrettable. The new proposals for the 3:12 rules also cause more small businesses to worry about the future. Perhaps some small businesses choose to give up their efforts and refrain from starting their own business because of the uncertainty with regard to the new 3:12 rules. Here, too, the government is guilty of the answer. We have a lot to do, as the Minister will notice, to make things easier for companies and entrepreneurs. We should be able to agree on this in order to create more jobs and more that contribute to common welfare. Since the government wants to harmonise the rules across Europe and because Sweden has a high employer's contribution, I ask the Minister whether we can expect a proposal that will reduce the employer's contribution in order to harmonise with the rest of Europe.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-200	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Larry Söder, for an important debate on Sweden's competitiveness! I can begin by saying that, since the elections, 96 000 new jobs have been created in the private sector in Sweden. In some way, growth is driving job growth in Sweden. When it comes to how Sweden ranks against other countries, rankings always have advantages and disadvantages. You can therefore turn and turn these indices, but in general Sweden is good in the index rankings almost regardless of which ranking you choose. That's a good thing. The point of the argument is that this should be seen in the investments. Then does it? Let us look at last year's investments, for example in industry. There, SEK 65 billion was invested in Sweden in 2016. It is the largest investment in industry since the financial crisis, which is positive. This means that when investments are made, the jobs of the future will also be saved, because there will be more efficiency and modernisation of the industry that will create the conditions for the future. Let us then look at foreign direct investment – what other countries are doing in investments in Sweden. They flowed in and increased from 52 billion to 168 billion in 2016. Sweden is therefore attractive for investment, and I am pleased about that. Do we need to continue working on this? Yes, we need to do that. In this economic situation, one can consider which investments are the most important to make so that companies do not slow down. I travel a lot in the country, and my analysis is that the issue of skills supply is the most important issue around Sweden both in industry and in many other industries. It's hard to find the right people. Public investment in education systems, transition and a better employment service are needed to match the needs of the labour market. It is an investment in which we have to raise tax money to finance for companies. The second thing that slows down economic development in many places in Sweden is a lack of infrastructure. We have been underinvesting in infrastructure for quite a few years. We see it not least on the railways, which have lost competitiveness. We are now increasing investment in rail maintenance by around 40% to be able to rely on trains running on time and as they should. This is important for industry. It is also about housing construction, which is a growth barrier for many parts of Sweden right now. This applies not only to the largest cities, but to quite a few places in Sweden. If they do not succeed in increasing housing production, growth will be hampered and business will not develop. The government is investing heavily in these particular areas. I think it must be seen that Sweden has a competitive tax environment for entrepreneurship. On the other hand, we have relatively high taxes on income. That is how we have chosen to do in Sweden to be able to finance a basically free health care, an education that is free and a university education that is free but also major public efforts that must be made right now. It's a balancing act. I hope that the Christian Democrats will also agree to discuss how we develop our public welfare, for there too it has been underinvested for many years. Precisely in the case of large and broad reductions in employers' contributions, as tried by the previous government, I do not believe that any bourgeois party actually supports the demands for them. It did not have the effect it had hoped for, not least on youth unemployment. I think that we need to think about and see what will have an effect when we talk about competitiveness.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-207	Madam President, I would like I share much of the Minister's view on how it looks. It is clear that we are hampered by the fact that we have not made the necessary investments in the rest of the country in terms of housing, communications and such things. It is quite clear that if we had had a better housing situation and a better communication situation, we could have moved to where the jobs are. You could have lived somewhere and taken a job that might be a little further away. Companies might also have been able to establish themselves in locations other than Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. Nevertheless, we have just over 7% unemployed. I believe that we need to find other solutions for these people than to build a new railway or a new home. They are so far removed from the labour market that it takes a little more efficiency from us as a parliament and from you as a government. I think that we need to think about things such as employers' contributions and whether we can harmonise with other parts of Europe that save some jobs. Some companies may then also choose to develop their business more. I believe that four out of five new jobs come in small businesses. Small businesses do not fertilize with money, but they turn on each crown to find an opportunity to hire another one to develop their business. I believe that the tax on labour and employers' contributions is part of which they look at to see if they have the opportunity and dare to invest once more. I mentioned representative responsibility, because I think it is a restraint for small businessmen who want to create and develop their business. I think that together we could find opportunities to reduce this burden so that people dare to invest a little more. It is not that we have too many people in Sweden who want to invest and realize their own idea, but we have too few who do this. I am pleased when the Minister says that they want to work with and support the Swedish industry. I do not believe that business today believes that it is the Swedish parliament and government that are creating the new jobs and opportunities. In some way, the business community must solve this on its own, on the basis of our help. If you create your own taxes in Sweden, for example the airline tax, I mean that it hampers such a part. I note that the Minister did not mention the air tax at all in his speech, and I hope that he can do so now. The government says that it wants to harmonise across Europe in terms of tax legislation and taxes. Is it healthy to charge a new tax, a different tax, which means that Swedish companies have to pay more than others do?
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-213	Madam President, I would like Thank you for further discussion on the important subject of competitiveness! I think that is quite right: it is not the parliament and government that are creating the companies of the future or the jobs of the future. But we are creating the conditions for growth and development in our country. Right now we see that growth is high and, above all, that investments are increasing in the Swedish economy. The investments draw much of the Swedish bnp today. We also see a substantial increase in foreign direct investment in Sweden. I take this as meaning that the business community has confidence in the development of Sweden. Otherwise they would not have made these investments in Sweden; then they would have made them elsewhere. But it is clear that we see concerns in certain markets. One market with which we see concern is the aviation industry in Europe. These are incredibly pressured conditions. We have had situations where there has been a discussion about whether safety can be maintained in all airlines. We have had a discussion where it has been difficult for some companies to sign collective agreements because there is low-wage competition that is very aggressive. This is somewhat similar to the development we have seen in the transport sector in some European countries. In all these areas the government works for the nicest conditions both here at home and in Europe. We have a flight strategy in which the common European conditions are important. We must ensure that the conditions are lifted in the countries that are currently pressing conditions and that workers may not be able to live on their wages unless they are given better conditions. I believe that this is an important European debate, and I hope that we all agree in this House that such slave conditions are not acceptable in Europe and that we can work together for better conditions in the aviation industry. As far as airline tax is concerned, we have presented plans to present a flight tax. It's not presented yet. I think we need to put this a little bit in the light of what we are facing as a plane and in the perspective of the future. I read in the papers that it was 20 degrees warmer than normal in the Arctic this year. 20 degrees warmer! That means the ice melts faster than ever. We must be able to turn this around, and then the transport sector is a very important part. For example, we have proposed the change of fuel that was met with cheers both by the environmental movement and industry and shows that we can switch to more biofuels in the tank without it costing so much more by making tax adjustments. The aviation sector must also bear more of its socio-economic costs. For a domestic trip in Sweden it is about 80 SEK, according to the investigation's proposal. I think most Swedes can imagine that it is quite reasonable if you fly in Sweden to pay a little more to contribute to the reduced CO2 emissions that we need in Sweden. But Sweden is a long country. We need an aviation industry in the future, and we need to be able to have transport not only within Sweden but also to other parts of the world. It is important to us with the transport policy objectives, but neither can we completely halt environmental policy, because then we will not take our responsibility in our generation to meet the needs of the world today and in the future.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-220	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. My question in the interpellation was also about the transparency of taxes paid by companies and whether information on this can be added to the wage bill so that people actually see it and we have a debate based on real facts about the tax collection in Sweden. The Christian Democrats and the Government share the same view, that is, that we believe that welfare should be financed together and that one should have a tax charge that is reasonable in one way or another to carry out the task that the state has to carry out. However, in order to have a real debate, people must also be fully informed about where the tax burden lies. I believe that we can agree jointly that this information could be placed on every wage bill so that every ordinary worker can see what kind of tax it is that the company actually pays. One problem is what the Minister is raising, that is, that different interests stand against each other. Environmental interests are opposed to the harmonisation of taxes in Europe, and the Minister took the aviation tax as an example. Perhaps one could imagine that you are hiding the airline tax in the drawer, because it, like the kilometre tax, is only one proposal so far, and is considering another proposal that is much better. I believe that the number of air kilometres may not decrease as much as you think, because many people in the southern part of the country actually live closer to an airport located in another country. Maybe you'll fly out of there instead of being a little cheaper. Of course, we are helping to ensure that other transport networks are much better, that is, trains. We need to improve them a lot. I would like to hear a little bit about the transparency of taxation on the salary bill that the Minister has not touched upon.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-226	Madam President, I would like A requirement that all employers must present data on the pay statement or whatever it may be would entail an administrative cost for companies that this government is not prepared to introduce. There is no ban on an employer signing the salary statement on how much you pay in tax. There is no ban on it. On the other hand, we have not put forward any proposals to both complicate this and increase the costs for small businesses in this way. I did not know that the Christian Democrats have such a proposal, but it is possible that you have it. Finally, on the issue of tax and welfare, it is important that if you are to be credible in terms of welfare funding – increase the maintenance of the railways, make sure you spend 10 extra billion on school, health care and care for the elderly around the country and manage the investments we are now making in housing – you must also be able to take in tax revenue. This debate has shown well that the Christian Democrats are for all reduced taxes but believe that you can keep all expenses at the same time. This is not the case, and we also saw this during eight years of bourgeois government. Now we have changed course and prioritise joint investments in both welfare and infrastructure.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-229	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has asked me if it is my position that it is necessary for the state to continue to own 37 percent of Telia, and in that case for what reasons. In 2000, Telia was listed. The motivation was, among other things, to broaden ownership. During 2002, Telia and Finnish Sonera merged in Telia Sonera through an exchange of shares. In 2008, the bourgeois government sold 8 percent in Telia Sonera. As a consequence, state ownership is at the level we have today. As AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar John's son mentions, there are different models for how telecom companies are owned. In Denmark, for example, venture capitalists took control of Danish telecommunications company TDC but have sold off their holdings again. In the Netherlands, there was a situation in which the stakeholders of the national telecoms company felt obliged to block an uninvited takeover attempt through a foundation. In 2008, France Telecom made a bid for Telia Sonera, which was rejected by Telia Sonera's Board of Directors. It was a decision supported by the then alliance government. I believe that Telia plays an important role in the digitisation of Sweden and sees no reason at present to reduce the state's ownership. Telecom companies in Norway, Germany and Belgium also have state owners. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar John's son takes up Telia's share price development. The company currently faces challenges related to the Eurasian business, including the actual sales process of the business that is delayed and a remedy from the US and Dutch authorities related to the establishment in Uzbekistan. I note that this investment was made in 2007 under the then alliance government and was supported by the then government, despite warnings from human rights organisations and experts. We share the company's view that the uncertainty regarding the sale of Eurasia's operations and the legal processes linked to Uzbekistan's operations are important issues that have an impact on the company's risk profile. For the state as an active and professional owner, value creation is the overall goal, and of course it includes periodically examining the reasons for continued state ownership.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-235	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. There are different reasons for ownership of state-owned companies. On this theme I have asked a question, which the Government has just made a statement about here and answered, about Telia and the 37 percent that the state owns in the company. There may be reasons for having that particular proportion or for changing it upwards or downwards. The Swedish National Audit Office has written a report on the state's ownership of companies. It is a historical look back that extends to today. Then is not now, if you say so, and past events and events affect the world in which the company today operates. We will come back to that report when it is discussed in the autumn, and the government will also have time to give its answer to it before then. With this report as a background to state ownership, we can see the reasons why different companies are in the state portfolio. The historical reasons for this are different, and we live in a changing world. It can change quickly from one day to the next and it can also shift over weeks, months, six months, years etcetera. There is also new reasoning on how to view ownership as the context in which we operate changes. There are established criteria for the ownership of the state companies that are about keeping the companies within a framework for them to operate where they are. It is about social benefits and that it is from this point of view that ownership is important. Another aspect is that state companies should not exist in a market where they compete with other companies and become a competitor that affects the market in an unsound manner. It can also be a background to ownership when there is a specific task for the company to fill. With this in mind, I wonder whether the Minister for Economic Affairs shares this view that I describe. Is it important that the ownership of companies is an ongoing process to keep these different aspects alive from time to time depending on what happens or does not happen in a changing world? I should like to ask the Government to address this in its next speech. In Telia's case, the company has gone from having a monopoly to being one of many players in the market today. The company has also over time been listed, merged with another company in Finland and entered an international market. In this context, the government will show reasons why the state owns individual companies. The Government and I have discussed the complexity of state-owned companies in markets where there are problems with corruption and social expressions that are not based on sustainable entrepreneurship. In the second wave, sustainability lies in opening up to some of the good expressions that it means being able to own a mobile and take part of the global world we live in, taking into account the sustainability aspect. With that and other events in mind, from Telia going from monopoly to that it would become a so-called public share and forward, the discussion about the state companies often leads to who is guilty of what. That also applies to Telia. There will also be discussion of party ideologies instead of explaining what the idea is. That is why I would like to repeat the question to which I would like an answer. Does the Government share my view that it is important to constantly follow that process, about what it means to own companies?
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-245	Madam President, I would like I want to be careful to say that this government has a pragmatic view of state ownership. Nor is this government driven by a privatisation agenda, perhaps unlike the former bourgeois government. It is not important for us to sell out assets for ideological reasons. So we have a pragmatic approach. As far as Telia is concerned, without prioring the letter in which we will reply to the Riksdag in due course, according to current rules, I can conclude that Telia is today one of the companies that runs much of the digitalisation in Sweden. Telia will also, together with Ericsson, test 5G technology in Stockholm and Tallinn. They may be the first two capitals in the world to try the new 5G technology. For this reason alone, Telia as a company is important for the development of both the business community and the digital shift that we are facing. In fact, between 2015 and 2018, the company plans to invest SEK 9 billion in super fast fibre broadband in Sweden. Of course it matters to us, generally. But that does not have to be the full answer to the question asked. Perhaps the most important answer is that I have no plans to reduce government ownership in Telia right now. Parliament has not given me a mandate for that either. There is no mandate from the Riksdag to reduce government ownership. Maybe that's the easiest answer to the question. The most important thing for me, however, is long-term value creation and working close to the board and management of the company, in order to support them. We have supported the strategy Telia has for the future. And the wisest way to do that is through a serious dialogue with the owners, not through various media speculations about the company's business in different countries. It doesn't always help the company forward.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-251	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I want to get back to this with effective, sustainable and long-term ownership. This means that there are a number of questions that need to be answered continuously. When it comes to increased or reduced ownership, you have to think about it and keep track of the company's development. The company has its mission all the time, but the owner must look at this and think about what is happening in the outside world. The Minister has now described how he views it. However, the question should be asked all the time. And by having the company in your possession, you have to be clear about it. The Government considered that Telia will certainly play an important role – I received this in response to my written question – and that it is underlined by what Telia does. Which of the different factors, within the framework where Telia operates, is it that will make Telia have the best effect just as a government company versus anything else? It is in this context that I have asked whether government ownership in Telia of 37 percent is optimal. With the Minister's view, the ownership share might be greater. But there is also a lot of competition in the market where Telia operates. The Minister mentioned that a pragmatic view characterises social democratic governments and not bourgeois governments, if I understand his interpretation correctly. It is precisely the kind of thing I object to, that people put such things on others. I think it is pragmatic to think about ownership all the time – the Minister nods in agreement. It's part of the whole process. And that's why I'm asking questions. I received a similar answer to my written question: I am part of a party that is always looking to sell, which is not the answer. When I see and hear about events, I would like to discuss them and at least get answers. Perhaps the Minister can give an answer as to how he views things. But it can also be that it is not possible to give an answer, depending on what it is about. Then you can give it within the framework of the Committee on Economic Affairs, which should eventually be told where the company should go. No, we do not have a privatisation agenda. But we have an agenda that says that you should constantly test whether there is social responsibility, whether there is competition that means that the state should no longer have this in its ownership or whether there are specific issues that make it necessary to have it. The government thinks you're selling things out. But it's about selling and getting as good a price as possible. There have been successful and unsuccessful business through the ages, if you look at it that way. But you're never supposed to just sell out anything. It is about taking advantage of what you have and seeing where the money can be used in a good way.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-261	Madam President, I would like I really agree that it is important to work seriously and in the long term on these issues and to carry out thorough analyses. That is also why I have tightened up, not least the ownership policy. This means that in the event of major changes, including within the state-owned companies, it is the responsibility of the Board to return to the owner with a request for ownership coordination. In this way, we can keep order and order in the interests of the state. You must request it in writing and reply in writing, so that the reasons for the business can be reviewed afterwards. We've been through a number of deals that haven't turned out very well. I am happy to return to the Riksdag once we have responded to the Swedish National Audit Office's letter. That's what we're going to do. Since we are having a discussion on this now, I can say that it is about half of the state companies that have a specific social mission. But the vast majority of state-owned companies work in competitive markets. And Sweden has shown how to build a model that means that state companies can compete with private companies on equal terms. There is also legislation that allows you to test whether they cross the line or act wrongly in this respect. That's how it's supposed to be in a modern economy. I've read the Moderates' earlier moves on state companies. Then it felt like you had a list of some companies that you couldn't sell out but that there was a pretty big opening to sell the rest. I think the Swedish people are quite interested in knowing whether the Moderates have a privatisation list. Then perhaps, not least in the run-up to the elections, you should be clear about if you have ideological locks. We want to sell these companies out. If so, it is reasonable to report it to the elections.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-265	Madam President, I would like I start where the Government started, that is, with order and know how owners communicate with the companies and that it should be possible to follow. For there was a time when one could make a call; then there was no paper, but one could meet and settle business. From there it's all evolved. 2012 took the new step – which we have also discussed a number of times – with sustainability criteria and how it should be done. It's really important. Ownership issues always follow with the responsible government and the responsible department. I see it not as a halted process but as a continuous process. One has to keep on the matter and look to the future – what do we need to change in order to take further steps? I have also mentioned this with Mikael Damberg in the past, when it comes to the UN's global sustainability rules. It is necessary and part of the entire corporate ownership that you have things in order. As regards the companies to be reviewed, I believe that all companies should be looked at. There's no special list. There are no secrets when it comes to that. I know that it has been in previous interpellation debates and that Members have talked about certain companies. And we've written about a couple before, where Telia is a possible company. Of course we're looking at it. The government is looking at what is happening and what is happening in the world and what companies the state should own. In the same way, our party looks at what it looks like, at whether the companies stay within the framework of what private companies can achieve. We have said that the ownership of the state should be long-term. We stick to that until we see that there may be reason to change it.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-272	Madam President, I would like I look forward to continuing to discuss this issue in the future, not least after the Government has given its answer to the Swedish National Audit Office's report. I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to my predecessor, Mr Norman, as I said earlier in this House. He made a number of strategic decisions that were good in terms of sustainable entrepreneurship and state-owned companies. During this period, we have taken further steps, not least to steer up the processes of ownership coordination – this so that we do not get back into the discussions that took place around the Nuon affair. In the Nuon affair, you couldn't figure out who knew what and what decisions were made by who. That is not good, because it is about such large government values. These assets are managed on behalf of the Swedish people. It is important that this is done in a correct and good way.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-275	Madam President, I would like Anette Åkesson has asked me three questions. The first is whether it is my position that the success that Sweden now has is a consequence of the S-MP government's policy and what concrete proposals I would like to refer to. The second question concerns what proposals I and the government intend to present in the future to address the problems that Sweden is now facing, and the last how I intend to work to achieve not only investment but also job growth. Since the elections, employment has increased by 150 000 people, of which 96 000 in the private sector, and unemployment has fallen to less than 7%. Youth unemployment is currently lower than in 13 years. The government is working on the basis of the target that the number of people working and the number of hours worked in the economy should increase so much that Sweden reaches the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. The Government's policy for more jobs consists of actions in several areas, an active economic and labour market policy, increased skills and investment in infrastructure and housing. Emphasis on welfare is also an important part of job creation. Active business policy means that the government invests in improved conditions for companies and in a strengthened business environment, so that more companies can create, grow and export. Among other things, the government has restructured state venture capital in order to create better financing opportunities for companies in the development phase. Through a number of initiatives, the lending from Almi Företagspartner AB has been able to increase significantly in recent years. In 2015, Almi launched the growth loan to innovative companies and lending increased by SEK 1 billion in 2015 compared to 2014. Almis lending also continued to increase in 2016. The government has also adopted strategies with measures for smart industry and increased exports. In the work on the export strategy, the government has launched regional export centres that provide SMEs with a door to export support for public operators. The government has also ensured that the company portal is operational.se now providing guidance also for companies that want to get to new markets. The government is also working to support the development of Swedish industry. In a broader perspective, we now see a trend break with increased investments and more companies that choose to move home production to Sweden. Technology companies also report that in 2015 more people were employed in Sweden than in the rest of the world. The government has presented a first action plan with 45 concrete measures to promote this development. In order to simplify matters for entrepreneurs, the government works to make use of the opportunities of digitalisation. The aim of the simplification work is for Sweden to be digital, transparent and innovation-friendly for a simpler and competitive business. As an example, the agreement reached by the government with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council to cooperate for a simpler restaurant business with the help of new national digital solutions. During the spring, the Government will present a digitisation strategy aimed at supporting business and social development. The number-sharing in the Swedish labour market has increased over a long period of time, and there are still major challenges in pushing down unemployment in traditionally vulnerable groups. In order to particularly benefit, for example, new arrivals and long-term unemployed, the government has extended the RUT deduction, commissioned modern standby jobs and expanded additional services. Through Tillväxtverket, the Government is investing in more matching actors and internally in the Government Office, a review of employment support is ongoing to make these more accurate and effective. It is good that Sweden is doing well right now, because it is creating jobs. It is also my belief that a shift from cuts to sensible investments in skills, housing and infrastructure helps to strengthen Swedish business. It leads to even more jobs. Repressing unemployment remains one of the government's most important issues.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-283	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation for the long answer. Unfortunately, the questions seem to have either been misunderstood or confirmed in part the concerns that I have expressed in my interpellation but also in previous questions. Sweden is doing well, but how can the current government take credit for it? In fact, it is the policy of the Alliance – and, of course, the economic cycle – that has an impact and is the reason for it. The government is more opposed to companies and jobs. Just to give some examples from the answer we have just heard that shows what I mean: Almis growth loan is a collaboration with the European Investment Fund's research and innovation framework, what is called Horizon 2020, from the beginning of 2014. So it is certainly good that Swedish small businesses can finance innovations, but it is hardly the profit of the Social Democrats or the Green Party. Similar looks like with the corporate portal affakt.se which was actually launched in 2012, i.e. in the middle of the last term of office. And taking credit for an extended RUT deduction to benefit new arrivals or the long-term unemployed is a bit too strong. The expanded RUT deduction is part of the fall 2015 settlement between the Alliance and the Government. Based on the government's approach to RUT deductions in principle, it is easy for everyone to understand that the extended RUT deduction was a game that came from the Alliance. When the Minister for Economic Affairs carefully states in his reply that in 2015, technology companies indicate that they employ more people in Sweden than in the rest of the world, they are actually a little curious, especially given that the Minister for Economic Affairs points out that Swedish companies pick up investments. What does a relative number mean? It can mean that there may not have been a single person employed in the outside world and says just nothing. Now I do not think that the S-MP government does not have ambitions in this area, but it is not the same as having contributed to the good development that Sweden has at present. To get back to the questions: Sweden is doing well but it is not because of the government's actions. We look more at the future, unfortunately, it does not seem that the government has any answers to how to deal with the concrete problems that Sweden is facing. These include the relocation of jobs, increasing income gaps, a greater division of income on the labour market and the fact that Sweden is losing momentum in digitalisation compared to other countries. Why don't you spend more time with them? And finally: Increased investment is positive, but that does not automatically mean more jobs in Sweden. I must therefore ask: is the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation not in the least concerned that state SAS is moving out jobs and that even companies in a future industry like Spotify are doing the same? Since the interpellation was written, Nordea has informed that, depending on whether the resolution fee is increased, they may leave Sweden. Does Mikael Damberg not see this as a clear signal that the conditions in Sweden are deteriorating for companies and that it will pose a threat to Swedish jobs and thus also a threat to the financing of welfare?
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-291	Madam President, I would like My whole point with the answer was to show what the government has done in important areas, which has developed Swedish business and created more jobs in our country. The previous government said that if you implemented fairly large partly unfunded tax cuts it would lead to a very good job development in the Swedish labour market, which we did not see. Not least, a great deal of money was wasted on reduced labour contributions for young people, which probably none of the bourgeois parties have left as a requirement today, and I can understand that. It did not have that effect, it cost a lot of money and it was a waste of tax money that did not bring down youth unemployment. Instead, we have focused efforts on those young people who have problems. We are now about to introduce a 90-day guarantee for young people so that they will not be unemployed for so long. Now we have the lowest youth unemployment in 13 years in Sweden. It is clear that it will have an effect when choosing what is to be prioritised. From a priority which was almost always about tax cuts during the bourgeois period, we now dare to invest in education policy and in 70 000 new training places. It is perhaps the biggest barrier to growth for companies around Sweden today, that they do not find the right workforce. We've invested in residential construction. Last year, the planning rate was 63 000 homes. It's almost like in the days of the million-dollar program. The government has a part to play in this. The second part is municipal majorities around Sweden that have focused on increasing housing construction in our country. This is an interaction that is taking place throughout Sweden to increase housing construction. We can look at the infrastructure investments. The maintenance of the railways has gone up by 40% for trains to start running on time, which is good for business. Any investment will keep growth going. We also have a great deal of investment in exports. How can you measure whether there is trust and whether this is good or bad? Industrial investments last year ended at SEK 65 billion. This is the highest since before the financial crisis in Sweden. Companies choose to make industrial investments in Sweden because they believe in the development of our country. They have not had as much confidence in Sweden's industrial development since before the financial crisis. This is a good sign for Sweden, and it saves jobs for the future and creates more jobs in our country. Foreign direct investment is increasing from 52 billion to 168 billion. The outside world believes in Sweden, but the Moderates don't. I think it is better to read direct investment as a sign of confidence and development. I am really opposed to the picture that is painted that implicitly questions whether investment leads to more jobs. Investments in Sweden always lead to more jobs in the long term. Missing investments in Sweden lead to job losses. You have to have this insight. We must be at the forefront of the new technology in terms of rationalisation, automation and digitalisation, otherwise it will cost Sweden jobs in the future. We now see that the private companies have created almost 100 000 new jobs in Sweden in two years. Let us work to ensure that such a development continues in the future.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-300	Mr President, I would like to We Moderates absolutely believe in Sweden. Of course, some adjustments to the reforms carried out are needed. But also the Social Democrats and the Green Party have continued with the Alliance's policy. For example, they have maintained the job tax deductions that have contributed to higher tax revenues to municipalities and county councils and thus to welfare. When it comes to housing, most people know that it takes about five and a half years from deciding on a project until construction starts. It is therefore mathematically easy to see when today's record building began. The automation of jobs, however, is becoming increasingly visible in society. Nowadays it is a common sight in the grocery store or at the airport. It is not only in industry that robots are common. With a population development where fewer and fewer people are working and are going to support more and more people, it is great if you can find good solutions to get jobs done and that productivity is increasing at the same time. However, we are seeing more and more clearly the disappearance of actual jobs. Some jobs do not disappear as visible; for example, many newspaper articles are now written by computers. This is therefore an issue that deserves to be discussed more, not least politically. One should not think that that automatically means that the same number of jobs will reappear here when companies that have previously moved out jobs are now reinvesting in Sweden. It's putting your head in the sand. Yesterday, Teknikföretagen provided information on labour costs in the manufacturing industry. Sweden is the highest in Europe and has higher growth rates. This means that jobs are relatively more expensive in Sweden than in neighbouring countries and that they are becoming more and more expensive. Last autumn, the Union stated in its Job Moved Report that jobs continue to leave Sweden. It is not only about jobs in industry and manufacturing, but also about typical civil servants' jobs. It is worrying that the government does not seem to take this seriously and continues to risk Swedish jobs through various deteriorations for companies. In the same way, you seem to be inspired by Quijote Quixote and make up problems that you pretend to deal with. Spending tax money on investigating profit limitation in welfare is a good example. What concrete social problem does this solve? Instead, we should consider how to tackle the real problems of society. Sweden is doing well, but it is thanks to circumstances that the government does not control. However, there are a lot of challenges to be addressed. The government, too, should be concerned about the growing income gap, an increasing division of income into the labour market and that we are losing momentum compared to other countries in digitalisation. The latter and the increasing labour costs affect the competitiveness of the business sector, and this is in Mikael Damberg's area. Increased investment in automation is a concrete and rational way for companies to reduce labour costs. Productivity is also increasing because machines can work around the clock, are not sick and not vabs. But this presents us with new challenges because our well-being is based on tax revenues, and these are largely linked to work in Sweden. The fact that the government doesn't seem to care about this or that famous companies are moving out jobs should worry everyone. Why does the government not address these challenges?
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-308	Mr President, I would like to I am more concerned about this interpellation debate than I imagined at the beginning. We seem to have a discussion about whether or not productivity and efficiency in Swedish industry are important for the future. If Sweden is not the most productive country and if we do not work with digitalisation and more efficient production, we will get many fewer jobs here. To be at the forefront of technological development is A and O for a small, export-dependent country. I'm not afraid of robots or new technology, but I'm afraid of old robots and old technology. This shift must be sustained, and this is behind the Government's Smart Industry strategy. It is about how we increase the rate of change and how we digitise even faster. Why have we lost momentum in the area of digitalisation in particular? Digitalisation of public administration is the area where we have lost most in the last ten years. What was it like now? Who was in government in Sweden for eight years and was responsible for the public administration? We led the league for digitization of the public sector 10 – 15 years ago. We don't anymore. We lost speed. We have decided to speed up the pace again, so we will present a digitalisation strategy for society. In my area, it is not least about the digitisation of small and medium-sized enterprises and about increasing the efficiency of production in the future. These are incredibly important issues and form the whole basis of the Smart Industry strategy. This isn't a zero-sum game. If Sweden is at the forefront of technological development, we will be able to create more jobs and more export jobs here. There are not exactly as many jobbs in the industry as there were 20 years ago. I never said that. But it can lead to more jobs in Sweden. The whole digitalization opens a new window to new industrialize Sweden. Obviously, we have different views on this. However, this is the basis for the Swedish economy and represents 77 per cent of Swedish exports. It is therefore incredibly important not to say that this is insignificant or that it could be dangerous to work with productivity and efficiency in Swedish industry. This is the very basis for successful job creation for the future.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-313	Mr President, I would like to Of course, productivity is important. It is a part of how we can develop Swedish competitiveness. But that also includes labour costs. When I asked my previous questions, I was surprised and then worried about the answers. To hold a position of government means a responsibility for Sweden, not only right now, but also for the future. You cannot pretend that you do not see the challenges we are facing, but simply wrongly, as I have shown, take credit for the fact that things are going well at the moment. Nor can you come up with problems that you pretend to solve or content yourself with saying the right things without delivering any concrete proposals to remedy them. This is weak. It cannot be argued that the conditions for companies are improved when one is presented from a company's point of view poor proposal after another, while one completely ignores the fact that companies continue to move jobs out of Sweden. It's not responsible. We finance our welfare primarily through work. We are faced with demographic development and digitalisation that has a major impact on this funding. Then the government must take the development of society and the relocation of jobs seriously.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-316	Mr President, I would like to We will continue to work for a strong export industry and a smart industry in Sweden that attracts the traditional industry to make record investments here. It has not been invested as much since the financial crisis as it is now. We also see that foreign direct investment in Sweden is increasing strongly. This is a sign that you believe in the development in Sweden, which is positive. The government is also making other efforts. What slows down or threatens to slow down growth is the supply of skills, the poor maintenance of infrastructure and the low level of housing construction. In all these areas, the government is making great, strong efforts. It is about training with 70 000 training places. Furthermore, we are talking about 10 permanent welfare billions, a 40% increase in rail maintenance and 6 billion for better and more rental apartments. We make big investments to keep growth going in Sweden. It's on investment. The policy of the Moderates is an investment brake. They have savings on housing policy, welfare policy and infrastructure. To slow down growth for Sweden in the future I think is the wrong way to go.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-319	Mr President, I would like to Rickard Nordin has asked me how I and the government will act to get Tesla to locate its new European car and battery production in Sweden. Sweden is an industrial nation and a vehicle country with world-leading manufacturers of both heavy and passenger cars. The expertise and industrial ecosystem that exists in the Swedish automotive industry is a strength that can also attract completely new automotive companies to Sweden, and this works both government and state actors to promote. In order to strengthen the conditions for Swedish industry to develop, manufacture and sell its products in a global market, the government has launched a new industrialisation strategy for Sweden with, among other things, a knowledge boost of 70 000 training places to secure the industry's skills supply, efforts to promote companies' digitalisation and a power collection for innovation in the transport sector. The broad energy agreement that the government was able to present last year also gives industry stable conditions and a good and stable access to electricity, which is central not least for those companies that are now considering building battery plants in Sweden. Swedish industry is already creating 1 million jobs in Sweden, but new investments remain important to create new jobs and can create new opportunities for collaboration for Swedish companies in the automotive industry, for example. Therefore, both export and investment promotion is an important part of the government's international contacts and travel. Increasing Sweden's attractiveness for foreign investment is one of the goals of Sweden's export strategy, which the government presented in autumn 2015. Business Sweden is the joint organisation of the state and industry for export and investment promotion. The government is now again raising their annual funding and strengthening their ability to continue promoting investments in Sweden in both battery and vehicle manufacturing. In addition, several government, regional and private actors are now involved in the reception of potential foreign investors within the framework of Team Sweden Invest. With its strong industry, high expertise and good supply of green electricity, Sweden is a competitive alternative for companies that want to establish new factories for both car and battery production, and such an investment would of course be very welcome.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-325	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. The type of plant we are talking about is the new type of industrial plant. For example, Tesla is expected to have a factory in Europe, but the battery manufacturer North Volt is also a great example of what we really want in Sweden. There is sharp global competition for these investments. Then we must also be much better at highlighting the benefits we have in Sweden. These are, among other things, the things that the Minister raises, such as delivery-proof, renewable and cheap electricity. I am pleased that the Minister is highlighting the energy agreement, which I was also involved in negotiating. We also have highly skilled workers. Something that is perhaps a little underrated is that we also have a very technology-mogenic and technology-interested population. Sweden is a great pilot market for many of these things. Then it's a grateful place to put your manufacturing and product development. We could be a tester. Other countries will, of course, highlight their advantages. Then it is important that we do so too, also through politics. I am very pleased that soon after this interpellation came in, the Minister was also out and welcomed the initiative and contacts that Business Sweden took for Tesla to be happy to come to Sweden. I do not think we have opposing positions on this, but I am rather pleased that the Minister took this initiative. I also know that his Finnish colleague had already done so, and perhaps I wish we could be even more on the ball sometimes and a little faster going out and doing these things, because other countries will do them. Then we have to be there. We have incredible benefits. We need to stop being so gentle. We need to release J antelagen a little and step forward and show all the benefits that we actually have in Sweden, because we have unique advantages here. We have good climate, and electricity and energy are, as I said, very good for this type of investment. We need to improve even a little bit, and I think the Minister is presenting a number of good initiatives. I hope there will be more of those in the future too.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-333	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for an important interpellation! I very much look forward to working with Mr Rickard and other Members who wish to participate in this. It's about what we can do at national level, based on what Business Sweden can do and what we can do politically to facilitate this, but also that there is strong regional pressure on these issues. Now there are a number of processes with site selection, as it is called in this language. Then regions must back up. We need to find collaborations to show that we are on the toe, that we are good as a manufacturing country and that energy policy is in place. One of the most important agreements we have made in this parliamentary term, I believe, was precisely that on the long-term direction of energy policy, which provides great security and also consolidates Sweden's strength in the field of energy policy. This is what has meant that Sweden has been a strong manufacturing country for many years. Digitalization as a whole is also important. There, Sweden is one of the countries that are most digitally mature and thus attracts a lot of interest. It's about both traditional industry and the new start-up environment, which is also exciting. Then there is the automotive industry, which is the world leader in Sweden. So we have very good conditions. I believe that some of the countries that are now competing for battery plants and others can certainly build factories, but the question is whether they have as good production knowledge as we do. It requires a large production line, and it should be effective. In addition, you should be happy to fill the batteries with green electricity. There may not be huge points in building large battery factories if you still charge them with coal power. We have good conditions here. We will definitely be on the ball, and we will see what we can do together to get more attention for Sweden's interest in these investments in the future.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-338	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Enterprise, for a good debate so far! Another thing we can do at national level is simplify licensing rules and such things and also try to ensure that technology and politics go hand in hand. It will be easy for politics to try to control which technology is good or desirable, but we in politics will never be able to do that. We will never have time for technological developments. Politics should rather say what the goal should be and set the framework for where you want to go. The way in which technology develops is left to technicians, engineers and companies. We must not be caught up in old rules. Before Christmas we had a good example of this. Then it was about drones, who ended up under a camera surveillance team that was from 1997, I think, when we basically didn't have any drones. Then they got caught up in that problem instead of trying to goal-manage the law – that is, to goal-manage the laws and make clear what you don't want to happen and what you want to happen. One should not try to control which technology to use to achieve the goals. This is something we can do jointly at the national level, can we not? Then I share the Minister's view that there is a great deal we can do at local level, both in terms of how we draw electricity lines and how we do with housing, training and other things, so that we have a good foundation to stand on there too. It feels like we have a pretty good consensus there, I think.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-342	Mr President, I would like to Technological developments are taking place very quickly now. The risk is that all our legislation does not really keep up. Above all, we need to think about how we future-proof laws, rules and regulations. It is one of the initiatives we have taken within the framework of the strategic cooperation programmes, which deal with innovation in five different priority areas. There we have commissioned Vinnova to keep the work that is about laws and rules together. In the test environments – we would like them to become more in Sweden – where you test the latest technology, you should also consider which legislation may need to be developed. It is important to draw conclusions in the work so that we can continue to be at the forefront in Sweden when it comes to both standardisation and regulatory development. I believe in this very much, and I think it is incredibly important to be on toe. Another major investment now taking place is a data centre in Avesta. They have acted quite courageously on the part of the municipality. They were quick on the ball and have tried to steer up work and plan processes and sort out all the very big and small questions that the international company has asked during the process. Without close cooperation between the municipality, the county administrative board and others to make this roll, the investment might have ended up somewhere else. So we need to be on our toes in the promotion of investment. This is also why we are now exchanging investment promotion within the framework of Business Sweden. There were two different organisations before Business Sweden was created, and I can probably be a little self-critical – I think we can all be – because the investment promotion ended up a little further back in the order of priority also for the joint Business Sweden. We are trying to change this so that the promotion of investment is lifted and given a higher priority. But there is also a great deal of regional and local activity in this area, so it is not just the state that is acting.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-345	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister most of all for a good and important debate. If we are to get these new industrial jobs and this new technology development to Sweden, we need to be on our toes. I feel there is a response from the Minister. We also saw that shortly after the interpellation was presented, the Minister went out in the media and welcomed Tesla to Sweden, for example. I appreciate this, and I hope that we will see more such moves from the Minister in the future. I think it is valuable and it sends very valuable signals, not only to Tesla but also to many others: we are a nation that wants to be at the forefront, we have great advantages, and you should come here, because then you get the best conditions.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-346	Mr President, I would like to Now we are talking about battery factories – can we get them to Sweden? But there are other investments that can also come to Sweden. Sweden is a very attractive country precisely for this, because we have two large and heavy vehicle manufacturers in the form of Scania and Volvo. We also have car manufacturers – Volvo Cars is the best known example – which expands very much. There is an entire ecosystem of suppliers, research institutes, colleges and knowledgeable people in these areas. Linking it to the new technology with electric cars, batteries and sensor technology – these are areas where Sweden is really at the forefront – can mean a growing industry. Take the example of Cevt in Gothenburg, which has gone from zero employees to 1,500 employees in just a few years! This is a huge development because the vehicle cluster in West Sweden is so strong. We can make more successful trips of this. Thank you for the interpellation debate.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-349	Mr President, I would like to Sofia Modigh has asked me what the explanation is for the fact that, despite the Government's efforts, the number of work integration social enterprises is decreasing, what measures the government plans to take to increase employment through work integration social enterprises and what the results are from Lars Bryntesson's work and why the results have not been published. The government has employment as one of its main objectives. Sweden needs more jobs and more people who work. The development of the Swedish labour market is strong. Employment is increasing and unemployment is falling. The number of newly registered vacancies to the Public Employment Service is at historically high levels. In particular, groups with a strong position in the labour market have benefited from the high demand for labour. Unemployed people who find it difficult to meet labour market requirements are at risk of remaining unemployed. This applies mainly to the unemployed with a short education, many of whom are born outside Europe, as well as persons with disabilities with reduced working capacity. The reform of labour market policies aims to enable the unemployed to be offered active labour market policies or training measures to obtain a job or start regular studies on the basis of their individual needs. Labour-integrated social enterprises are important players in their efforts to strengthen and create jobs for people who are far removed from the labour market. The ambition is also that these companies will grow and grow. The Government therefore decided to commission the Swedish Agency for Growth to carry out a three-year investment in which a total of SEK 60 million will be contributed to employment promotion efforts through work integration social enterprises. The increased opportunities for job training within the Employment Service's job and development guarantee are also important measures in which the work of labour-integrated social enterprises can be exploited. Since 1 January, a new procurement law has been in place allowing contracting authorities, including the Public Employment Service, to carry out reserved procurements against certain suppliers. The new rules aim at those activities which are generally unable to obtain contracts under normal conditions of competition. The new legislation gives labour-integrated social enterprises a greater opportunity to obtain contracts and deliver services than in a regular procurement procedure. Social entrepreneurs, social enterprises and social innovations are important elements for meeting the societal challenges of the future. As part of the government's efforts to promote social enterprises, Lars Bryntesson contributed to developing data. Lars Bryntesson did this within the framework of his regular employment at the Government Office when he was placed at the Ministry of Industry. As a direct result of the work, for example, the Government has commissioned Vinnova to strengthen its work with social innovations and allocate at least SEK 55 million to carry out targeted efforts for social innovation. The Swedish Agency for Growth has also been tasked with reviewing and reporting how the agency promotes development and works to develop its services, information and communication to meet the needs of social entrepreneurs and social enterprises. The government will continue to ensure that the business promotion system meets the needs of social entrepreneurs, social enterprises and social innovators, and that the social economy is growing and contributing to a stronger Sweden.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-359	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The number of employment-integrated social enterprises has steadily increased, at least in the last five years. It is certainly a smaller sector of business, but it is a sector that several ministers and others have expressed an important role. The unique thing about work integration social enterprises is that they have dual business ideas. Like other companies, they produce and sell the goods and services they demand, but unlike other companies, they also have a business idea to integrate people into the labour market – people who have long been unemployed and people who have different forms of obstacles to employment. Both objectives are equally important for work integration social enterprises. The success of the concept of job integration is due to the fact that these companies have a special approach. It is an approach whereby employees are involved and responsible for the company's development and profits are reinvested in the business to finance the integration of more people into the labour market. I am surprised that the Government is giving me some sweeping answer as to how it may be that the number of social enterprises integrating into work is decreasing while the government is making an effort to increase them. There are about 40 work integration social enterprises that have gone bankrupt or have been wound up in 2016. Is it not reasonable to be self - critical as a minister of state? Is there something wrong with the bet? Is there another obstacle in the outside world that has arisen? Or what has happened that is going in the wrong direction? In addition to the government making this 60-million-dollar investment in work integration social enterprises, a special person, Lars Bryntesson, has been appointed. He went country and country around for six months and interviewed and discussed with work integration social enterprises and other organisations. Everyone I have met had the impression that he would come up with proposals to improve the conditions for work integration social enterprises, social innovation etc. and that they would be presented in a final report – a final report that everyone took for granted would be public. However, no results have been presented, and no feedback has been given to work-inclusive social enterprises. This has led to, I feel, work integration social companies experiencing that the government promises around but keeps thin. Perhaps it is especially important when communicating with a sector that is characterised by participation and empowerment that you do not play any form of political game and do not darken if there is any work going on – a work that has not come out, so to speak. The disappointment I have faced is great, and many ask me, Why is the result secret? In fact, I wonder: Does the government promise around and keep thin – right?
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-366	Mr President, I would like to No, really not. This is an important issue. This is why we have given several different assignments, for example to the Swedish Agency for Growth about follow-up. But the issue of statistics is not quite simple, because we do not really have official statistics on this. It is unofficial statistics, which are quite correct, which have been reported in this debate. 15 new companies were started during this time as well. But the Swedish Agency for Growth says this is indicative. It's kind of not that we know. One mission will be to drill in this, so that we get more solid ground under our feet. Lars Bryntesson had an idea catalogue. There were a great many different measures. If we had presented the whole idea catalogue, it would have sounded like we promised to do everything. Then it would look like we promise a lot but keep thin. I think it is important when you act that you can also deliver and that you do what you say. That's why I think the 60 million was important. I think that even more important for a long time to come, but perhaps not right now, the first few months, is the new procurement opportunity. It was almost Lars Bryntesson's main conclusion when he came to us: You must influence the general system, so that these types of companies fit in. It is about work integration social enterprises, but it is also about the social economy as a whole. It is probably the main conclusion we have drawn: We need to work with the general support systems to a greater extent, so that this comes into being as a natural element in the promotion of the activities of Almi, Tillväxtverket or Vinnova, which we have also talked about, in cases where it works. There they are of great importance. There's always a risk. In some vulnerable sectors you sometimes choose to make a lot of special efforts, which can be great in the short term, but if you want to grow in the social economy in Sweden I think what is Lars Bryntesson's perspective, to get this into the general systems, which play the greatest role. This is what we have tried to do by ensuring that the Swedish Agency for Growth also takes monitoring responsibility seriously and that we learn more about what really happened – there have also been changes in labour market policy during the same time – so that we do not lock people in employment that does not lead forward. It may be one aspect of this that we know had some effect, but I believe that some of the efforts we are now making in the long term will have the right effect. I take this seriously and I'm happy to follow it up, but I think that what you promise you should also keep, and that's what we're working on.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-372	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that I am so happy that I wrote this interpellation, for such a full answer about the result of Lars Bryntesson's work I have not received or heard before. It was therefore very pleasing, and there is certainly also more to say which should perhaps be brought forward to the social enterprises that are integrating into work. I share the view that it is good if the general systems are familiar with the work integration social enterprises and can work with them instead of against them. Part of the general system but is the Public Employment Service. In the Minister's reply to me, he just wrote about work training, and work training is one of those jobs they procure. When discussing work integration with the Employment Service, it is often pointed out that there is no definition of what an employment integration social enterprise is and that it is therefore difficult for the Employment Service to buy services from them, or to make procurements. If the government and the Government place great confidence in the general systems, my question is: Is it in the rock sleeve that one should also make a definition or perhaps rather establish the definition that exists but is not defined, so to speak, to facilitate the employment services in such cases to buy or procure these services from the labour-integrated social enterprises? After all, the government has formulated in the budget that it should have a cross-sectoral programme of measures that stimulate the creation and growth of more labour-integrated social enterprises. Is it the case that the government sees this 60-million-dollar investment, which on the one hand may seem large and, on the other hand, may think small, such as this cross-sectoral programme of incentives? Is that what we are talking about, or are there more measures in the pipeline?
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-376	Mr President, I would like to Some of these questions I think Ylva Johansson is better than I am at answering. We argued a little bit about which one of us would respond to the interpellation. I would like to reply, but she is more involved in the internal work of the Employment Service and the development of labour market policy than I am. The very point of the rescheduling, with the reserved procurements, is that it opens up new opportunities for companies such as labour-integrated social enterprises. Do we know that procurement is difficult? Yeah. Do we know that we have created a new procurement authority to help different organisations to do the right thing with the procurements? Yeah. So we are building knowledge over time, and that is what I mean: I believe that this will have an effect, but it will certainly be the case that there will be different rapid developments in this area of procurement. I am quite convinced of that. We have also asked the Swedish Agency for Growth to work a little bit on mapping and analysing the support structures now, so I hope that this autumn we will be able to get more information from the Swedish Agency for Growth about what the background was, what really happened and what the development looks like with a little more substance in the statistics so that we have it to build on when we move on. For example, with regard to general interventions in general, I am thinking of the micro-loans that Almi drew up. It was not just for this type of company, but I think it may have a bearing. This is something that is in demand of this type of companies and organisations. I therefore believe that the usual promotion organisations will, over time, present more proposals and measures that fit in with more types of business. At least that's what we from the government expect them to do.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-382	Mr President, I would like to It is possible that Ylva Johansson may come back again, but I think it is important that in this interpellation debate the Minister also takes on board what the Public Employment Service itself says: If the idea of procurement is to work, a definition of what labour integration social enterprises are. As I see it, that definition cannot be satisfied by anything other than the fact that the government is making a proposal, and I hope that one will come so that the process can proceed. If you think of general systems, without going into Ylva Johansson's area of work, I think that the question is whether it is not the case that you sometimes forget that these companies are part of the business community and that the general systems we have for the business community also need to include these companies. A fundamental part of this is, of course, whether they have any competence in this matter. In the interpellation debate before this one there was talk about Business Sweden, and there are regional equivalents to Business Sweden. What is the competence of them about work integration social enterprises? It's low, I can answer. Even in an ordinary municipal business office, skills are often low, and so one might ask: Can the Minister consider making efforts to raise the skills of these systems on work integration social enterprises by making investments and investments together?
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-385	Mr President, I would like to It is possible that Business Sweden is an actor here. However, they mostly work with export and investment promotion, and most work integration social enterprises do not have that profile. But, of course, they may have, even if I haven't met so many so far. I think the heavy players here are the Swedish Agency for Growth and Almi, those who are very close with advice and funding. It is often a question of funding and advice, for some of those who set up work integration companies also need help and advice. They are often passionate about the social aspect, making enormous efforts that may go far beyond their working hours. Some of them, however, are not very used to running economic companies and organisations, so we need to look at it from both sides: on the one hand, the promotion organisations need to understand the driving forces and what kind of organisations and companies these are. On the other hand, I think that it is at least as important to continue to support this type of businessman in business, because the business spirit is perhaps not as strong as the non-profit and social. The risk is that the business will not be as strong in the long term as otherwise, and we are all valiant of it will be a long-term activity and not just a short-term activity that depends on having been supported by a public operator at the moment. You need a business model that lasts a little longer over time. I therefore believe that it is important that we also work with business promotion, and then we must have knowledge of this. This is the whole point both with Lars Bryntesson's recommendations, which is why we have chosen to focus on more general efforts such as procurement and loan opportunities, but also that our promotion system otherwise should know about these companies.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-389	Mr President, I would like to Maria Malmer Stenergard has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to reverse the trend that state jobs disappear from north-east Skåne and how I and the government intend to compensate north-east Skåne for the closures that have already been announced. In working with a Sweden that holds together, it is important to have a state presence in the country, whether it is a matter of government jobs or citizens' access to services. Maria Malmer Stenergard refers to the government's rhetoric and alleged ambitions to move jobs from Stockholm to the rest of the country. The government has already made a decision to move authorities and operations from Stockholm. Furthermore, the Government's objective of increased state presence over the country is clear and has produced results. Among other things, closures of offices in smaller towns have been avoided. In order to increase the spread of government agencies in Sweden, several different measures are required. The government has announced that work on relocating authorities or activities will continue. The Government's work on this is based on the assumption that the relocated authority will have the best possible conditions to operate in the new location. The choice of location in case of relocation must be made on the basis of the Authority's activities. I cannot therefore comment on specific regions at this stage. It is important that the state works that exist throughout the country can be kept as much as possible. This applies in particular to jobs in small towns. The Government intends to develop government governance so that regional considerations are taken into account to a greater extent. Work is also under way to develop citizen services throughout the country, whether through local presence or digital channels. During the spring, the Swedish Service Centre will present proposals to coordinate government functions. Local service offices and the forms of their activities are examples of government functions that are prioritised in this work. That's where we'll be waiting for a report this week. The report will provide an important basis for the government's continued work with a Sweden that remains together.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-395	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In a short time, northeastern Skåne has been affected by several announcements that state operations are being phased out. First came the announcement that the Recruiting Authority's operations in Kristianstad will be moved to Malmö. It was then announced that the Distance Pharmacy, which is owned by State-owned Apoteket AB, will divest its operations in Hässleholm. Recently, information was also received that the Employment Service in Östra Göinge Municipality may close its office in the municipality. The latest offer is that they close after the summer. Unfortunately, the trend is clear in northeastern Skåne, namely that the state jobs will not be more but fewer. This is despite the fact that Stefan Löfven has said that it is important for the state authorities to be more widely distributed across the country and despite the fact that the Minister for Civil Affairs himself points out that the spread of government jobs is an important part of making the country stick together. Consider, for example, the Recruiting Authority in Kristianstad. It's an institution in the city. When you say that you are from Kristianstad, almost all grown men from southern Sweden have some pattern history to tell. Now, after a quick analysis, they have decided to move the agency to one of our three major cities, Malmö. You lose staff and skills. It leaves suitable premises for premises that have not yet been found. Uncertainty is particularly serious in a situation where military service has been reintroduced and the security policy situation is more strained. Or look at the Distance Pharmacy in Hässleholm. There are 57 jobs in a state-owned company. Isn't it the government that rules the state? Even the Social Democrats' own Member of Parliament from Hässleholm has protested loudly and questioned how this goes with the government's alleged ambitions. Finally, we can look at Arbetsförmedlingen in Östra Göinge kommun. It is a municipality that the Minister himself has visited not long ago. Östra Göinge is one of the municipalities that have received the most refugees per inhabitant in Sweden and are facing major labour market policy challenges. I am pleased that the Minister is today aware that government governance has not worked and that the government therefore intends to develop it in such a way that regional considerations are taken into account to a greater extent. But why do you allow northeastern Skåne to be drained on government jobs? Why has the government not acted when things are moving in the opposite direction to what has been pointed out? If you want to spread government jobs, you have to start by protecting those who already exist, right? Why hasn't the government? How do you plan to compensate northeastern Skåne for the closures that have already been decided?
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-404	Mr President, I would like to Allow me to begin by expressing my appreciation for the fact that Maria Stenergard is joining a discourse which calls into question the policies of the previous government for eight years. That is exactly how it is, Mr President. For eight years Swedish administration was centralised. The activities were concentrated in Stockholm, in the 08 area, without the government taking action on one occasion, saying from and actually doing what Maria Malmer Stenergard rightly demands of the government, namely that the government should rule over the state and its authorities. It is good that the centralisation discourse is being called into question in this House. It is good that the Prime Minister's desire to spread government jobs is supported. Unfortunately, we have seen opposing signals from the Moderate Coalition Party in recent months. We have even heard disparaging comments about replacement jobs. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs better dissemination of government jobs. Sweden needs a better distribution of government services. We need to continue working towards a management policy that focuses on cohesion and equivalence in our country. It is against this background that the Prime Minister has announced that the relocation of authorities will take place during this term of office. So far, two authorities have been relocated from Stockholm to other parts of the country. That process continues. We will see more relocations. As Maria Malmer Stenergard says, we must also work with the existing location. Therefore, we are working to develop a governance and coordination of authorities in localisation decisions so that the authorities take into account how other authorities have acted in a region, so that the state does not leave a region because the state administration does not coordinate. That process is under way and we intend to come back to it during the year. The Prime Minister announced in December that the government will work to increase government services around the country. It is about developing the service office's concept and ensuring that people can use the physical presence to get service and be able to access digital services in the state. All three processes are about breaking with the previous government's administrative policy. It is a matter of acknowledging that centralisation has been a major failure for Sweden. The fact that people protested against the closure plans for the nine tax offices was proof that people in much of our country feel abandoned by the Swedish state. It is therefore right that the central government and the central government now take greater responsibility, coordinate the authorities and control localisation issues. Dissemination of government jobs should not be seen as replacement jobs. Here, too, the Moderate Party needs to send out signals other than those sent after the Rural Committee's report was presented. They worry me. It is important to keep our country together. That is something that should bring together the whole House. We should take a critical look at the experience of the past 10 to 15 years of centralisation in the public sector.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-411	Mr President, I would like to The rhetoric is absolutely not wrong. I am pleased that the Minister is so clear in his ambition that we should keep more jobs in rural areas and outside the big cities, but I do not see any results. Then it is not good enough to blame that one does not think that the alliance government did what it would do. It is now 2017, and the election was 2014. I expect much more. Facit for northeastern Skåne is distressing. The trend of government jobs disappearing from northeastern Skåne becomes even more serious if you put it in a larger perspective. It is becoming increasingly difficult for the job creators in general with government policy. This is particularly true in rural areas. It's mileage tax, flight tax and indexation of petrol tax. Everything is an example of politics that hits us extra hard that doesn't live inside the subway lines. The proposals for the change in taxation of small companies, the so-called 3:12 rules, are also hitting life outside the big cities. There, the wage situation is not as high as in the big cities, which is at a disadvantage with the proposed rules. Rural areas are also more dependent on small businesses as employers. With that comes a vulnerability. This vulnerability becomes greater when the local companies get increased tax. Tax increases are unlikely to help create more jobs but, on the contrary, risk jobs on the ground. Large cities are not vulnerable in the same way. Therefore, tax increases for small businesses with a focus on small businesses are problematic for rural areas, especially in times of increased challenges in the form of many new arrivals entering the labour market. If there is one thing we need to protect in these times, it is integration, and jobs are a central part of it. This is in clear contrast to the Government's alleged ambitions for a living countryside and, once again, its rhetoric. It is not subsidies and subsidies that make rural areas live without people and businesses that can realise their dreams of their own accord. In total, the tax has been increased by SEK 40 billion on jobs and growth. It is now planned to increase an additional 20 billion, of which 5 billion will be spent on small businesses, on job creators. Hundreds of billions are hitting jobs outside the big cities. This is the wrong way to go if you want to protect jobs and welfare. Our message is clear: it must pay off to work, and it must pay off to run a business. This applies both inside and outside the big cities. The government's response, however, is anything but clear. It says it wants to protect the countryside, but many decisions – not least tax decisions – that have been taken so far have hit the countryside with great precision. The difference between rhetoric and politics becomes equally clear when we see what happens to government jobs. Ask those who work at the Distance Pharmacy in Hässleholm! Ask those who work at the Recruitment Agency in Kristianstad, and ask those who work at Arbetsförmedlingen in Broby!
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-420	Mr President, I would like to I note that the interpellier is changing the subject of debate and is beginning to discuss fiscal policy. I think it is important that we show courage, that we dare to be self-critical and critical of the fact that social development has gone in the wrong direction even when our parties have been given the opportunity to govern this country. After Statskontoret's mapping, there is no doubt that the previous government had a wrong policy regarding the location of government agencies. There is no doubt that the state authorities have been centralised to Stockholm. There is no doubt that this government has changed course, has relocated authorities, has stopped closures and this year intends to steer the authorities so that we get coordination and governance in relation to localisation decisions. Those processes are up and running. The people who have seen the relocations and the government's efforts to stop closures involving the state leaving parts of the regions, they see the effects of the government's governance of the authorities. We will continue to work on these issues. We will need to relocate authorities. We will see more of that process this year. We will need to send signals and have a system for the governance of the authorities' location decisions so that authorities have to take into account other authorities' decisions and the state thus takes overall responsibility in terms of location and presence. We will also need to strengthen the presence of services in the country. That's exactly what we're working on right now. All these parts are about turning the course, to reverse the trend, to note that the policy pursued was wrong. We have now taken concrete steps, but I share Maria Stenergards's conclusion: we must do more, even more, to strengthen the presence of the state. But the interpellant must start with a self-critical starting point. The policy being pursued was wrong. We cannot allow the authorities to make any decisions about location without taking overall responsibility. We cannot blame centralisation on our management model, because the government must take responsibility for the whole of the administration. Then the interpellant must have a critical discussion within his own party. As we are now working on redeployment of public authorities, it is said that these are replacement jobs, which impair the quality of the public sector. The quality, Mr President, is not only in Stockholm. It is also found in northeastern Skåne. It is also available in Norrbotten. It is also found in Västerbotten. It is not wrong to relocate authorities. This is an important step in strengthening the legitimacy of the Swedish administration, the Swedish state, and maintaining trust in the Swedish state. The examples highlighted by the interpellier in this debate are, of course, proof that we need the order that the government is working on right now, where we get a holistic approach to localisation issues and get the authorities to talk to each other. If it is the case that an authority needs to gather some of the activities in one place, then it is important that other authorities take this into account and do not leave that place. That's exactly how we have to work. That is how we intend to work, and so far in these two years we have also delivered.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-429	Mr President, I would like to I and Ardalan Shekarabi rarely agree, but on this issue I think we have an unusual agreement. I think we agree that we need to move more government jobs out of the big cities. I believe that there are strong reasons for competence to do just that. We also agree that the government must take responsibility. We do not agree that the government has so far delivered, at least we do not talk to people who live in northeastern Skåne. There the government has not delivered. In fact, the government has failed there. The whole of Sweden should live, and that requires a number of things. Government jobs may not be the most important thing, but they are an important complement to the labour market. The state service, just as the Minister is concerned, must be in place throughout Sweden. The most important thing if the whole of Sweden is to live is that people, especially entrepreneurs, can realize their dreams of their own accord, because the most important jobs are created in our companies. It could be hoped that politicians, especially those in the government, would have brought with them. It is not good enough to talk about that the whole of Sweden should live or in the case of the Minister that the whole of Sweden should stick together. This must be seen in the policy pursued. Why do you raise taxes on transport, on flights and on small businesses if you really think that Sweden should stick together? Why does the government allow state jobs to disappear from towns outside the big cities to the big cities? They say that Sweden should stick together. A good start would be to ensure that rhetoric and politics stick together.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-436	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Maria Stenergard. I will continue to work on these questions. I am pleased that there is such a debate in the Swedish Parliament. I hope that Maria Malmer Stenergard works with opinion formation internally in her own party, because we have a need to reach agreements in this area. The government will continue with the relocation, but it is important that the Swedish people feel confident that the centralisation will not continue, no matter what happens in the future. This security does not exist today, not least in the light of the information we have received from the L andrural Committee's investigation. However, this debate is something I welcome. We must continue to work on what concerns governance of the authorities on location-related issues. It is a question of developing a structure that allows precisely this type of case to be dealt with adequately, which requires coordination. It is a question of the state having to act as a group and ensure that the authorities coordinate and interact on these kinds of issues. That structure has not existed, and that is one of the reasons why we have had this incredibly far-reaching wave of centralisation. But we have the opportunity to reverse developments, and that process has begun. Many thanks for a good debate! Continued.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-442	Mr President, I would like to Dennis Dioukarev has asked me what I am doing to meet the recommendation and what measures have been taken to prevent and reduce the number of suicides and suicide attempts among children and adults. Suicide is the ultimate consequence of mental illness, and countering suicide is an important part of the government's mental health drive. Let me start with a somewhat broader perspective. The government has high ambitions in terms of health. The government has set a long-term goal: On a generation we will close the avoidable health gaps. Because although health in Sweden is generally good, it is not for everyone. Mental ill-health is a major and growing social problem. The proportion of people experiencing and reporting mental illness has increased since the early 1990s. Among children and young people, for example, we have seen an increased prescription of drugs to counteract depression, anxiety and anxiety. There is therefore a clear link between living conditions and health in general, but perhaps between living conditions and mental health in particular. In order to reduce suicides in Sweden in the short and long term, it is crucial to have a focus on prevention, an accessible first-line care and a specialised care with high quality. The major challenge in preventing suicide is to make visible the importance of working with better mental health. The issue of suicide has for too long been a matter for health care, but it is a matter for society as a whole. How can we, together and in the long term, at the same time approach the many different factors that have a bearing on reducing suicides? As regards suicide prevention, the government took an important step in 2015 to better meet the challenges in this area through a mission to the Public Health Agency. The Public Health Agency was tasked with coordinating suicide prevention work at national level – a strong commitment to a national, long-term sustainable strategy in the regular structure. The Public Health Authority has thus been given a clear mandate to develop coordination and collaboration between the relevant authorities and other important actors, such as user, patient and family organisations and researchers. For 2017, the Swedish Public Health Agency will also receive an additional SEK 35 million to support knowledge development in the field of mental health at regional, local and non-profit level. Part of the contribution will be allocated to organisations in the non-profit sector that work with suicide prevention and mental health. Since 1 January 2016, the Government's work is based on a new strategy in the area of mental health. Through an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council, the Government is investing SEK 890 million in 2017 to stimulate and support the principals based on five different focus areas. The Government's strategy will stimulate the development of prevention and promotion work in general, but also early intervention for those who are not well or at risk. We will focus on creating the conditions for finding long-term solutions with joint responsibility in regular structures. Although we have had many good projects, it is above all long-term sustainable structures that are needed.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-451	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. Before making my criticism, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight something positive in the form of the investment in mental health at regional, local and non-profit level. I think it's bets of the nature that can make a real difference. When we talk about mental health or whatever area of society it may be, it is fundamental that we make decisions on the best possible factual basis, in order to maximise the chance for desirable outcomes. That is why I intend to continue my speech with a Nordic perspective on mental health; that is, after all, what my interpellation refers to. In order to get an idea of what mental illness can bring in the form of difficulties in life, I looked at statistics on what is called NEET, which in the EU context means not in education, employment or training. Young people who end up in NEET statistics have a common problem picture. It can range from interrupted upper secondary school studies, neuropsychiatric disabilities and reading and writing difficulties to depression, addiction and problematic and destructive home conditions. Between 6 and 12 per cent of young people between the ages of 16 and 24 in the Nordic countries are at risk of falling into these statistics and thus long-term exclusion. Mr President, I would like to It is noted that mental illness among young people in Sweden is not falling. Instead, the long-term trend is that it is increasing, and that is worrying. In our neighboring country, Denmark, things look different. Sweden and Denmark are, in fact, each other's opponents of young people's psychosomatic health. While the incidence of such disorders is increasing throughout the Nordic region, Denmark does not show such a trend at all. The suicide figures show about the same picture. Denmark and Norway are the lowest in the statistics while Finland has the highest suicide rates, followed by Iceland and Sweden. This is of course very interesting. Why does it look like that? What are the Danes doing that the rest of the Nordic countries don't? I have no answer to that question, but I believe that this is something that the government must analyse in its work against mental illness. I noted that the Minister did not mention anything about this in his reply. My question concerns the Nordic perspective and ultimately the recommendation of the Nordic Council. So what does the government do to live up to it? Are there any contacts at ministerial level with our neighbouring countries with a view to exchanging experiences on ways of preventing and reducing the number of suicides and suicide attempts among young people?
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-459	Mr President, I would like to I believe, like the interpellier, that it is very important to exchange international experiences in this area. We are seeing an increase in mental illness in a wide range of countries around the world. As a minister, I have made several trips, and on several of them a clear theme has been to discuss mental illness, what measures are being taken in the country in question and what Sweden could learn from it. This has not primarily been the case on my trips to the Nordic countries, but work has been going on for a long time, not least under the auspices of the Nordic Council, to see how to exchange experiences in the area of health. It is clearly interesting to see what Denmark and Norway, but also Finland and Iceland, are doing in the field of mental health because those countries are so similar to Sweden. However, since we are so similar in the Nordic countries, there is sometimes a tendency to turn a blind eye to the differences that exist. One difference that I think I see concerns the health care structure. Sweden has very good results in healthcare, but we also have a healthcare structure that is different from the one in Denmark and Norway. I do not think that the difference is very important in terms of somatic care, but in terms of psychiatric care it may have played a role. One disadvantage we see with the Swedish way of organising psychiatric care is that it is too fragmented. We may have had a little too much focus on specialised psychiatric care and not looked at the early interventions and preventive work. When it comes to detecting mental illness early, or coming into contact with children and young people who have suicidal thoughts, it is at least as important, I think, what is done in the early interventions but also that there is a broad awareness throughout society. Therefore, one of the key points in the government's new strategy for mental illness is precisely to build up early interventions and ensure that, when looking for care at, for example, a health centre or coming into contact with a youth clinic or with pupil health, there will be a high awareness of mental illness in general. But you should also be able to get help, especially if you have a more severe form of mental illness. Today, as I said, this aid and this aid depend heavily on where in the country you live. To this end, the Government has entered into an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils. Part of the agreement is to set up so-called psychiatric centres throughout the country. The role of these centres should be to disseminate knowledge and experience and contribute to the development of first-line psychiatry, in particular by strengthening health centres. It can also be about other establishments. This is what I referred to in my interpellation response. We now need to focus on building sustainable structures. We've had a little too many projects. Many have been well-loved, but they have often died out after a couple of three years and have not resulted in any long-term change. We now need to reverse the perspective and focus precisely on the long-term structures.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-466	Mr President, I would like to As I said, it would have been very interesting to study more deeply what the Danes do differently, because they have the lowest suicide rates in the Nordic countries. What are their priorities in health care and psychiatry? But to the point: How is mental illness cured? I note that in the Minister's written reply there is a great deal of focus on coordination, cooperation and structures. A certain number of tax crowns are to be placed on this. In my ears, it definitely sounds like a mispriority. Sweden is already a world champion of bureaucracy. To talk, plan and structure we are already doing enough. Perhaps that is what has led to the overcrowding of child and youth psychiatry. Did you know that waiting time for a neuropsychiatric investigation could be one to two years in some parts of the country? Perhaps that is what has led to the existence of county councils that do not have a single care place for young people. And perhaps that is what has led to suicides increasing most in the group of young adults. Very few countries show the same trend as Sweden, Mr President. How, then, do we increase mental health? Is it through more bureaucracy or through more care places, by word or by action? Mr President, I would like to In one of the world's highly taxed countries, world-class psychiatry is expected. Those who have been able to seek care on their own should also receive it quickly. Therefore, today's situation in psychiatry is not acceptable. I believe that the Swedish people are calling for concrete measures.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-471	Mr President, I would like to It is true that we have far too long waiting times in a large part of child and youth psychiatry. However, with regard to waiting times for a neuropsychiatric investigation, to which the interpeller refers, I would argue that it is often because there are quite different demands from school and parents. It has become something of a truth in many parents but also in many school leaders that you need some form of investigation at the bottom in order to get special support in school. This is wrong. A student without an investigation should also be able to receive special support if he or she needs it. But as I said, it is often believed that an investigation is needed, and then you often go to the specialised child and youth psychiatry. I think this is a clear example of how events and trends outside the control of psychiatry affect such things as waiting times and statistics. That's why it's so important that we have an expanded collaboration between different actors. Another reason why it is important to have this interaction between different actors is that it is not always easy to detect mental illness, partly because there is a low level of awareness about the problem, partly because there is still a strong stigma that makes you not dare to talk about mental illness – neither those suffering from it nor close relatives, friends, acquaintances and so on. In order to detect mental illness, it is therefore not enough to just equip health care. There is also a need to disseminate knowledge and raise awareness in schools, workplaces, sports associations and more. This is where the need for increased cooperation comes in. By strengthening care and, not least, the efforts of the first line, which we often find in primary care, I also believe that one can help to spread knowledge and awareness to other sectors. By doing this – by discovering mental illness earlier or by preventing it, so that people never have to feel bad – we can also get less pressure on specialized psychiatry, so that it is only for those who are really ill and really need specialized psychiatry. Unfortunately, I think that a lot of people who have ended up with BUP, for example, might never have ended up there if they had been helped a lot before. That is what this government is now trying to correct through the focus we have on early intervention.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-474	Mr President, I would like to I note that I and the Government share a problem picture and that we basically want the same thing, but that the method of how we are going to get there may differ a little. I think that the focus should be on how we improve child and youth psychiatry, how we get faster investigations and when the government intends to shorten the long care queues. I thank myself and look forward to what the government has to say in the debate that the Swedish Democrats have asked about the serious health crisis.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-476	Mr President, I would like to I think we are doing exactly what Dennis Dioukarev is asking for, i.e. focusing on how we can increase accessibility, short queues and improve child and youth psychiatry. But in order to do this, one can not only focus on the BUP itself, but one must look at the whole chain of events that lead to a child or a youth ending up with the BUP. Then, as I said, many times you have not received help and support early. It may not have been the subject of any preventive measures, but it has developed mental illness for various reasons. Help has not been found anywhere at an early stage. Mental ill health has thus worsened until you have had to apply for BUP. Just focusing on improving child and youth psychology risks becoming like pouring water into a leaking bucket – you continue to pour water, but as long as the bucket leaks, you never get to the basic problem. That is why, at the same time as we are making efforts within the BUP, we must also concentrate more on early intervention. The goal for both me and Dennis Dioukarev must be that fewer people develop some kind of mental illness at all.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-478	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me whether I am prepared to take a legislative initiative or take other measures to enable the sale of alcohol from farms as a representative of Systembolaget. As far as I can see, a local and small-scale alcohol producer has nothing to gain from such a scheme, because the task of the agents is to receive orders from consumers and then forward the orders to Systembolaget, which in turn sends ordered goods to the agents for delivery to consumers. You can also order the goods directly from Systembolaget and collect them from the nearest representative. The ombudsmen are therefore only allowed to store alcoholic beverages that consumers have previously ordered. If an agent were to store goods for direct sale, as it would be with the model proposed by Edward Riedl, it would instead be a question of retailing to consumers. Such a regime would be contrary to the retail monopoly and therefore such an initiative is not appropriate. There is today a great interest in the artisanal and small-scale activities of Swedish consumers. This development is also seen in an increased interest in the local and small-scale drinks that Systembolaget sells. To meet this increased demand, the company has developed new approaches in its handling of local and small-scale items and improved both product information and quality control. Systembolaget also sees that the number of suppliers to Systembolaget's local and small-scale range has increased. In the first half of 2016, more than 200 local and small-scale producers delivered their products to Systembolaget. In conclusion, I would like to say that there is great confidence in Systembolaget in the population. Customers have never been more satisfied with Systembolaget's service. 76 percent support Systembolaget's exclusive rights. This shows that Systembolaget manages its mission well. I and the government have clearly taken a stand in pursuing an alcohol policy that ensures trust and legitimacy for Systembolaget.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-483	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. I would like to start by saying that S v erige is the only EU country that does not allow farm sales. It is not the only country that has an alcohol monopoly. This means that there are different ways to combine the two models. I was going to talk quite a lot to the Minister about what concerns public health. Now the Minister chooses not to touch it very much. The Minister has repeatedly written, together with the sobriety movement, in various articles of debate and the like, about precisely the threat to public health if one were to make the slightest departure from the alcohol monopoly. Allowing farm sales would in some way endanger public health. I and the Minister have discussed this before. If I understood the Minister correctly in the last debate we had had, the Minister backed up a little bit from the position he had taken in the past. He now believes that farm sales do not threaten public health. He'll be happy to clarify this if he wants to. What it is about is not to make any change in the alcohol monopoly in any way when you have a model with small-scale wine production or similar where you also sell from the farms. It is a model that exists in Finland, for example, which also has an alcohol monopoly. If you do this, you create jobs far beyond the cities. Far out in the countryside, jobs are created. We must continue to process the products we already have locally. Mr President, I would like to What is so good about whether you can further process your products, regardless of whether it is meat production or something else, is that you will create tourism for this. You get visitor destinations. All this is good and in no way threatens public health. Most often, the price tag is so significant that there is no danger of having that model alongside the alcohol monopoly in general. Christofer Fjellner, a moderate MEP, has written about this very thing. The Minister takes it up in his reply a little bit and responds to what he has asked for. Quite a lot suggests that it would be possible to have a proxy model developed from what we already have today. It would then be possible for farms to keep a small part of their own production in storage but otherwise act as agents. It may be that the Minister is absolutely right that the EU should reject that model. I don't know anything about that, but I think it's worth trying. My question to the Minister is: can the Minister himself consider trying and seeing if Europe can let go in that respect? It in no way threatens public health but creates jobs and added value far away from cities in Swedish rural areas. Would the Minister consider reviewing this?
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-491	Mr President, I would like to It will be a bit of a favourite in replay because me and Edward Riedl have debated this before. To begin with public health and whether small-scale farm production and the sale of what is produced on the farm directly threatens public health, the answer is that the small quantities involved, perhaps 1 000 litres of alcohol per year, are not a direct threat to public health in Sweden. On the other hand, it poses a very large indirect threat. The establishment of a small-scale sale would challenge the monopoly. A monopoly means that you have an exclusive right to sell something. In this case Systembolaget has the exclusive right to sell most of the alcohol to be consumed elsewhere in Sweden. In fact, the monopoly has been broken as soon as you open something similar to a different type of sales outlets than those that Systembolaget has. In order not to discriminate against other companies in other EU countries, for example, they must also be allowed to open wine or beer shops, for example. That is what has led me and the government to conclude that we do not want to examine the issue of farm sales. We do not want to do anything that could threaten the monopoly because it is the root of Swedish alcohol policy. It is very likely a major reason why alcohol consumption has fallen over a large number of years, not least among young people, and that Swedish alcohol policy in many ways is very successful especially in comparison with a lot of other countries. When it comes to the possibility of combining an alcohol monopoly with farm sales in other countries, Finland is often highlighted as an example. It should then be remembered that Finland negotiated an exemption in connection with its accession to the European Union. This exception has mainly, and especially at the beginning, been to allow beverages produced on berries and herbs that are typical for growing north of the 60th parallel. It has therefore not primarily been about wine or for that matter beer but about other typical drinks. That is something quite different from what Edward Riedl is asking for. This was negotiated in connection with the whole EU negotiation, as there was a completely different window of opportunity to make this kind of special solutions. Instead, I would like to point out, as I did in my interpellation response, that under Systembolaget's exclusive rights we have the opportunity to highlight locally produced beer, wine and other beverages. Here Systembolaget has undergone a great development work where you have a very close collaboration with a lot of local producers and thus also highlights the local production in a completely different way than what they did just a few years ago. I think that is a reasonable compromise. It continues to protect Systembolaget's exclusive rights and does not challenge it in any way but nevertheless ensures that local producers of beer, wine and other beverages can market themselves and sell through Systembolaget. I think that's good.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-499	Mr President, I would like to As I said, Sweden is the only EU country that does not allow farm sales. But it is not the only EU country with a monopoly on alcohol. So these two are possible to combine if you want to. The added value is that you can sell on site. There are many successful examples. It can be meat farmers who have local sales where you have an added value of people coming out and seeing the farm and so on. At Glass farmer outside Umeå they have locally produced ice cream. It's a destination just because you have it in place. You further refine what you have, and you also get a visitor's destination based on this. It creates jobs and faith in the future outside big cities. That is a good thing, and it in no way threatens public health. I share the Minister's view that it is good that alcohol use among young people is falling. But I'm not sure the explanation is only good. It is perhaps another debate. At the same time, we see that we have problems with drugs and other illegal substances. I take that very seriously. I do not think the Minister was trying to reduce those challenges, but there is a certain connection between them. Then there are the prices, if it were to be the case that you are selling cheap liquor locally. But that's not what it's about. We have outside Umeå something called Brännland Cider. They produce ice cider. It takes a lot of apples growing up in our climate to produce it. The price is 149 SEK for 187 millilitres. It is therefore a liter price of SEK 800 for cider. It is not a product that in any way threatens public health. The same applies to the other small-scale locally produced products. But it feels good when you go into Systembolaget's website and look at prices and so on that you can at least state if you are over or under 20 by pressing the button. That's some kind of security, isn't it? Mr President, I would like to In fact, I think we should try the possibility. If it then turns out that the Minister is right and that this threatens the alcohol monopoly, I have respect for the fact that a different conclusion can be reached from the one I propose. However, as far as I understand from what our MEPs have developed, it is also possible for Sweden to find a combination model that allows small-scale, small, close and locally produced ones. So we can make sure that there are jobs far out in the country and places where people are attracted to come and see how to produce the different parts– if it is then about meat, ice cream or some local wine producer. It creates added value and in no way threatens public health, Mr President.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-506	Mr President, I would like to In fact, I can only repeat what I said in my previous speech: it is not the case that a small-scale farm sale in itself would pose a serious threat to public health. But it would pose major indirect threats because it threatens Systembolaget's exclusive rights. When you establish more sales channels you can not do it only for Swedish small-scale producers of wine, beer or cider. In view of the tough anti-discrimination legislation that the EU has, we must also open up to other types of sellers. For example, there may be large vineyards from the rest of Europe. Therefore, the whole starting point is to protect Systembolaget's exclusive rights. We believe that this is one of the most important pillars of Swedish alcohol policy and one of the most important reasons why alcohol consumption is now falling, not least among young people. Instead, my starting point is that we should have a strong system company that can be responsive not least to small local producers and thus, in cooperation with them, ensure that we can reasonably offer different types of locally produced products within the framework of the monopoly to consumers in Sweden. To challenge the monopoly in the way that Edward Riedl proposes, I and the government are not prepared to do so. We believe that this would seriously threaten public health.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-510	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes you just have to say that you don't get along and you think differently. But as sure as the Minister was in the past that farm sales were harmful to public health, he is now as sure of the indirect threat. Mr President, I would like to I am simply saying that the possibilities for farm sales should be reviewed. If it should in any way threaten the existence of the monopoly, I understand if a number of politicians from different parties come to the conclusion: let us not do this. But on the Minister it sounds like I want to challenge the whole monopoly situation here and now. That's not what I'm talking about. I am talking about allowing the small-scale, the locally produced and the local. I am talking about ensuring that we can further process the products that are far out in our country. That is what I am talking about, and not about challenging the whole alcohol monopoly. From this point of view, I believe that things can be reviewed. That is what I would like to ask the Minister: would the Minister consider reviewing this? Or is the Minister sure that his view of this is correct? There are obviously, Mr President, others who make other assessments. I refer once again to my fellow Member of the European Parliament. He has asked the question in the EU system: how would it be received if this type of derogation was made? It seems possible. If possible, would the Minister take a different view? Could he at least examine the possibility of getting the small farm sale?
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-514	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl is asking us to try to introduce some kind of farm sale. The issue has been examined, not least in an investigation that presented its final report in 2014. It concluded that it is not possible to allow farm sales only for Swedish local producers without allowing it for other types of companies from the rest of Europe. It is on the basis of this investigation that the government decided not to proceed with farm sales trials. We fear that it threatens the monopoly and thus fears that the great progress that has been made in improving alcohol consumption and thus improving public health would be thwarted. Edward Riedl once again refers to what has been done in other EU countries, which have managed to combine an alcohol monopoly with allowing farm sales. I can only repeat what I have said before: let us take the example of Finland. There was an exception at EU entry. Sweden has been in the EU for almost 22 years. It is not possible for us to obtain an exemption after such a long time under the conditions that Finland had at the time of its accession. I also think it would be a dead end to try to do this now. Instead, I hope that Systembolaget continues to develop its close cooperation with local producers in Sweden so that you can offer their products in their stores and in the order range. I hope that with various efforts, not least from the government, we can strengthen Systembolaget so that one continues to enjoy the high confidence that one has with the Swedish people and continues to get good customer ratings.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-518	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me whether I intend to support an application for the Winter Olympic Games in Stockholm/ Åre in 2026, and for what reasons. There is ongoing work within Stockholm Municipality and other affected municipalities together with the Swedish sports movement to study more closely the conditions for applying for and arranging Winter Olympics and Paralympics in Sweden in 2026. Swedish sport hosts many international sporting events on a regular basis – sports events that contribute to employment and also increased interest in sport, not least among children and young people. The Parliament has on several occasions clearly expressed its support for the fact that international sporting events are located in our country. A thorough examination of the conditions for applying for and implementing a Winter Olympics and Paralympics 2026 gives the opportunity to assess further whether the arrangements can be implemented responsibly. It is primarily the municipalities concerned and the sports movement that have to decide whether they consider that the right conditions exist for applying. As far as security issues related to this are concerned, there is no request to the government, and I cannot therefore comment on the matter. I follow the work that is now going on to investigate the conditions for applying to arrange the Winter Olympics and Paralympics 2026.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-522	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again, Minister, for your answer. When it comes to sport, we need a lot of breadth. That is what public health is all about – that as many people as possible can participate under their conditions in the field of sport. It also has to be fun. It should be pleasurable for young people to get in. There is always a certain risk that cutting-edge and elite investments will cause you to lose your breadth. It's always a balance. At the same time, we should remember that if we have good stars like Zlatan in football or Anja Pärson on the ski slope, it is clear that it creates interest and dreams and many young people who are attracted to these sports. That's good. The organisation of the Winter Olympics and Paralympics in 2026 would be a major commitment, not least with regard to the economic aspects. Sweden, Mr President, is in a situation of major challenges in large parts of society. Then you have to ask yourself: Why would Sweden arrange a winter Olympics? That's the question I was trying to challenge the minister a little bit with. There is a major contribution from the International Olympic Committee, and it would cover almost half of the costs of a winter Olympics. Stockholm as a possible organiser will also have to take part in the costs, but of course much of this infrastructure will be retained. You can use it even after an OS if it is done wisely. Then there will be extensive ticket revenues and sales and more. If you look at the application that the City of Stockholm is preparing, you can see that there are good opportunities to actually do so that taxpayers do not get stuck with the bill. If the preparatory work is done so well that this winter Olympics and Paralympics can bear their costs, there are, if Sweden takes on such a large arrangement, infinitely many positive aspects. I won't be able to go through them all, but this would give a lot of new jobs while arranging this. The most important thing, however, is actually what has to do with public health. This would create many incentives in this area. Public health and sport and the commitment to this would be the focus for a very long time. Such a large event strengthens Swedish winter sports in many different ways. We're good in these areas. Such an arrangement creates an interest for our country, for tourism here and to come here and use the facilities that exist and will exist. Sport creates cohesion. It is good for public health and also builds bridges between people. I'm an old football guy myself, and I know it. It was the way they met the new Swedes who came even when I was young. Sport is the best form of integration. There's nothing better. You don't even have to speak the same language. If you can kick the same ball, it goes pretty well. My question, Mr President, is whether the Minister thinks it desirable to have a Winter Olympics and Paralympics. What does the Minister himself think, in addition to what was said in the reply that the Minister read out? I think it is a good idea if you can control the costs. What does the Minister think?
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-530	Mr President, I would like to The answer to Edward Riedl's question is whether I think it is desirable to organise a winter Olympics in 2026 or not. Depends on what kind of arrangement you're thinking. If one imagines such an arrangement that we have gotten used to during the last winter Olympics – it has been quite sumptuous and ploughed down billions of billions and they have built facilities that have been used only during the weeks that the games have been going on and then not at all – it is not such an arrangement that I think it would be appropriate for any Swedish actor to get involved in. It would rhyme very badly with sustainability and would probably entail large costs for the Swedish state. On the other hand, if one thinks of an event such as that of Edward Riedl, which helps to create an interest in sport of the wide-ranging nature and which can attract not least more children and young people to the sports that will be practiced during the Winter Olympic Games, based on the three sustainability dimensions of economic sustainability, social sustainability and environmental sustainability, and if one imagines that such an arrangement would be innovative and show to the rest of the world that we have learned something from the arrangements that have been arranged recently and have done something different, then I think it is interesting to discuss. In conclusion, one can say this: I think that Sweden is far too good a nation when it comes to organising major sporting events, we are a far too good nation when it comes to highlighting sustainability issues and we are a far too good nation when it comes to creating a broad anchoring for different types of national projects to disqualify ourselves from at least thinking that we could arrange a winter Olympics. As to whether the government will take a stand for or against an application, it is of course something that neither I nor the government can answer until we have a basis on our table describing precisely what kind of Olympics they want to arrange in this country. The City of Stockholm and the sports movement have not yet made a decision, and no requests or requests have yet been made to the state as to what the state should do and contribute to such an arrangement. I am therefore very much in favour of discussing the idea. I believe that there may be great advantages, but before we have any formal request at our table, the government cannot say 'bu' or 'ba'.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-536	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by saying that I agree with many of the descriptions made by the Minister. The sumptuous efforts made by many countries will eventually only leave the possibility of organising these kinds of events to either very large nations with economic muscles or to small, corrupt dictatorships. In fact, however, it seems that the International Olympic Committee has also understood this. I know the Minister knows that. On the one hand, there will be more money from the Olympic Committee and, on the other hand, other aspects of this will be highlighted. This means that Sweden can make a good application in a very good way. I am absolutely convinced of this. It sounded when the minister spoke that he had also taken note of the preparatory work that the City of Stockholm is doing in the application process. I think that's good. Sweden has a lot to show off. We're good at winter sports. We could do this in a good way. We already have a lot of facilities in place, and above all, Mr President, we have a lot of snow in this country. I shot a lot of it this weekend. We are well placed to arrange this. As I said earlier, the advantage is that we have a new focus for many years, and I think that Sweden as a nation needs this kind of great project to look forward to where we can highlight the other values – not only the sumptuous but actually the good of sport, that is, the breadth and the tip side by side. Sweden could do it well. The Minister says he is not going to say 'bu' or 'ba', but I still interpret the Minister's answer as not saying 'bu' but, in fact, possibly 'ba', which was the words he himself used. I take a positive view of the Minister, and I hope that we will follow this process in the way we do. I think that if you do a good job and you can also show the economy in this, this can be really good.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-541	Mr President, I would like to I can only say that it is a very exciting time in which we live. It is interesting that the work and discussions on a possible Olympic application for 2026 have come as far as they have done, although for my part I believe that it is still a long way to go before submitting a formal application. I would like to repeat once again that the government is in favour of the discussions that are taking place. We think it is interesting and well worth looking seriously at such an application when it comes to the government table. I assume that the government and the state need to make certain efforts in connection with such an Olympic application and then also during the games themselves in order for them to get rid of them at all. If it is then a question of financial guarantees, security guarantees or anything else, we cannot know until we have received a formal request from the government. As I said, I look forward to whether such a thing comes and will follow the discussion very closely.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-543	Mr President, I would like to There is no point in prolonging the debate. I am pleased that we are in agreement on this issue. It will be very exciting to follow this work forward and see how to get these different parts in place. As the Minister himself says, there are likely to also be demands on the state in various parts to make this go around. As far as the financial guarantees are concerned, we will see whether it is the City of Stockholm or the State that is expected to provide them. It may be a matter of negotiation at the end of the day. What matters is what we can contribute, and that is where I hope we will find a way forward. I think it would be welcome, for sport's sake, for a country like Sweden to be the organiser of this. You can highlight values other than the sumptuous. The breadth and joy of sport can be highlighted. Sweden can be an important part of this. I would like to thank you for the debate. It is nice that the Minister is positive about a Swedish Olympic application, of course a little depending on what it looks like.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-547	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl sums up pretty well what this is all about now. I can only stress that it is fun and interesting that the discussion on a possible Olympic application is ongoing. I look forward to continuing to follow those discussions and that process. Thank you, Edward Riedl, for setting the interpellation!
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-548	Mr President, I would like to Karin Rågsjö has asked me if I Let me start with a somewhat broader perspective. The government has high ambitions in terms of health. The government has set a long-term goal: On a generation we will close the avoidable health gaps. Although health in Sweden is generally good, it is not good for everyone. Mental ill-health is a major and growing social problem. The proportion of people experiencing and reporting mental illness has increased since the early 1990s. Among children and young people, for example, we have seen an increased prescription of drugs to counteract depression, anxiety and anxiety. There is a clear link between living conditions and health in general, but perhaps between living conditions and mental health in particular. In order to reduce mental illness in the short and long term, it is crucial to focus on preventive work, an accessible first-line care and specialised care with high quality – at the same time. The proportion of children and young adults experiencing mental disorders has increased in recent years. There is a clear tendency for youths and young adults to be depressed, anxious, have trouble sleeping and have pain problems. Young people also use more psychiatric care than before, both outpatient and hospital care. The Government allocates approximately SEK 1 billion per year in 2016 – 2019 for interventions in psychiatry and mental health. This is a reinforcement of SEK 280 million compared to previous years. The reinforcement is being done in order to meet the increasing ill health of children and young adults up to and including 30 years of age. The funds should be used to strengthen youth receptions, among other things. Hopefully, if children and young people receive the first line of call support they need at the right time, the need for antidepressants can be reduced. The Government therefore allocates SEK 200 million per year to strengthen pupil health. Students' health is often able to identify mental illness early in an ill-health process and, if necessary, refer it to the right body in the health care system. In the field of medicines for the treatment of depression in children and young people, the National Board of Health and Welfare issued guidelines in 2010, and new guidelines are currently being consulted. In the 2010 guidelines, the National Board of Health and Welfare states, among other things, that antidepressant therapy, SSRI, has a good effect on symptoms and functional performance in children and adolescents with moderate major depression. However, there are special difficulties and risks in treating children and young people with SSRIs. These risks need to be taken into account in particular. In 2015, the Swedish Medical Products Agency and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare had a joint initiative in the field of depression and anxiety disorder, which included drug treatment for children and adolescents. The initiative was commissioned by the Government and was part of the PRIO mental illness plan for targeted interventions in the area of mental illness 2012– 2015. The initiative meant that the National Board of Health and Welfare's revision of national guidelines for the care of depression and anxiety disorder was coordinated with the Swedish Medical Products Agency's development of updated recommendations for drug treatment in the area. The Swedish Medical Products Agency has worked within the framework of the national drug strategy to increase knowledge about children's medicines and their use and contribute to safer drug management for children. The Agency, in collaboration with the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, has, among other things, prepared a knowledge document on sleep disorders in children and published new recommendations for how neuroleptics should be used in the care of children and adolescents with severe psychiatric conditions in 2016. The purpose of the activities is to increase equality and bring about positive changes in the use of children's drugs in mental illness. Regarding a possible need to review research, the Swedish Agency for Medical and Social Assessment, SBU, has been tasked with identifying knowledge gaps in the field of mental illness. One of the aims of the survey is to provide the government with a basis for assessing the need for possible further research in the field of mental illness.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-557	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister Wikström! This means that the National Board of Health and Welfare has developed new national guidelines for the care of depression and anxiety. The proposal is pending until 31 March. The proposed guidelines have met with quite a lot of resistance. Critics feel that they risk leading to a one-sided perspective. Psychopharmaceuticals, electroshock treatment and CBT are given priority over long-term therapy. There are special concerns about children and young people, which I will come to later. Of course, individual assessments should form the basis for different types of treatment. You have to focus on the patient. I don't usually get into discussions about guidelines. But now I have, because there is such strong pressure on the issue from various quarters. Mental illness is simply a public disease. According to SCB, the proportion of young people aged 16-24 with sleep problems, anxiety and anxiety was around 7– 8 per cent in the 1980s. Today, the share is up to 20%. This is a marked increase. And 40% of those on sick leave today have a mental diagnosis. This is really going on. According to the OECD, mental illness costs Sweden about 70 billion per year. In Germany and Finland, sickness rates are falling, but here they are increasing. This is a big question. There are many who are affected by it, in different ways. As you said, the government, along with the Left, has tried to strengthen the economy on these issues in different ways. It's really needed. It has not been done for a long time, that is, not by the bourgeois government. If you look at what it looks like across the country today, you can see that the availability of psychotherapy is very different geographically. In different county councils there are different temporary agreements. It is diverse in scope, skills requirements and choice. It's very upside down. Unfortunately, this is not consistent. It is done very well in this area, for example by the coordinator in the field of mental health or by SKL, led by Ing-Marie-Marie Wieselgren. It is good that young people and children can now get first-line talk support. But often too many young people, including children, medicines prescribed and not follow-up, do not get conversations. That's what it looks like. We have also seen a trend in the prescription of psychopharmaceuticals for the particular group of children and young people. And sometimes, as I said, it is done without follow-up. The increase has taken place specifically since 2010, when the guidelines came. Psychopharmaceuticals of the group of children and adolescents have increased by 67 percent. Soothing agents have increased by 70 percent. And antidepressants have increased 100 percent. These are extreme numbers. With this drug consumption of children and young people, we end up at the top of the world for this type of prescription. Maybe you have to look at it. My first question to you is, as in the interpellation: Will the Minister take any initiatives to reduce the use of psychopharmaceuticals among and young people?
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-571	Mr President, I would like to I am a member of the Social Security Committee and we deal with parts of these issues. They are very close to our work. In particular, sickness rates and the rehabilitation guarantee are included in this. The guidelines have certainly been in windstorms. Together with Solveig Zander from the Center Party, I recently arranged a seminar in the First Chamber here in the Riksdag. It was probably one of the most visited seminars we've had. This shows the great commitment to the new guidelines. We made a comparison with Finland and Germany, which also Karin Rågsjö – the interpellant – has just mentioned. The differences in access to different types of mental illness and anxiety care are significant. It does not seem that the National Board of Health and Welfare, which draws up the guidelines, has looked at these differences and taken them into account. In Sweden mental ill-health and also sickness rates are increasing as a result of this mental ill-health. In Germany, sickness rates are falling, and in Finland as well. We do not have the unilateral initiative that we have in Sweden. We criticised the previous guidelines from 2010 very strongly, both from my party and from the party of the Government. They were one-sidedly focused on short CBT, i.e. cognitive behavioral therapy. That's where the money was taken, while psychodynamic therapy didn't get the same conditions. This means that all people should be treated in the same way, even though we as individuals are very different. This is not the case in Finland and Germany. There you see what's best for the individual. It is with great concern that I see that the guidelines that are now being referred are identical to the previous ones. Something that has previously been said to be bad is being investigated. Karol the Nstitute has said that the guidelines are not good. The Swedish National Audit Office says something like: Redo or close down! I am concerned that former representatives of this government have seen that this is not good. It must be possible to do so in a different way, and we should stick to that. It is also worrying that it is largely the same people who investigated the previous guidelines that have now worked out these guidelines. I find it very worrying about the treatment of mental illness in Sweden. Anyone who is not helped by cognitive behavioral therapy must seek that help elsewhere. Then it is about the private market, and it costs at the same time as it becomes a class question who has the opportunity to get the therapy that suits best.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-580	Mr President, I would like to This debate is basically about what we need to do to meet not least children's and young people's mental health and how we can reverse the development that has gone in the wrong direction. I think that, as we now discuss the work of the National Board of Health and Welfare on the new guidelines, it is worth recalling that this is a work based on the latest knowledge and a number of medical experts. The consultation round that is currently under way is in order to obtain as many different views as possible – this in order to ultimately have as well-founded a basis for decision-making as possible for the adoption of the new guidelines. Guidelines are based on the latest knowledge available. They should be seen as a recommendation to care and aim to get equal care across the country. In our healthcare system, the county councils are the principals, and we have 21 different county councils. We therefore have major challenges in terms of creating equal care. One response to these challenges has been to develop national guidelines that make the latest knowledge and recommendations based on the latest knowledge available throughout Sweden regardless of where you live. That is why I do not think it is entirely unproblematic when politicians and political parties go in and discuss medical recommendations. As a minister, I have abstained from discussing the direct medical recommendations, because it must be in the profession and research to stand for them. However, I have endeavoured to ask questions to the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare about how the process of drawing up the guidelines has looked like. Not least, I have endeavoured that there should be transparency in the process that allows different voices and views to be heard. As far as I can judge, it is an open process, not least with the round of consultations that is now under way. In the context of this consultation, a number of regional seminars will be organised to gather views. I believe that this is a guarantee that all the facts needed to produce the best possible guidelines will be put on the table. It is also worth recalling – and WiwiWiwi-Anne Johansson also takes up – that people are different and may need different types of treatment, even though there are general recommendations. That is why it is worth noting that the guidelines are recommendations at group level. They do not stop at all from finding other solutions for individuals, as is clear, not least in the Health Act. Care should be given as needed. You should look after the best interests of patents. Solutions other than those set out in the general recommendations can also be found. With this, I think that I and the government are following this work in the way that it is reasonable for a government and politicians to do. We strive for a good process, but we do not interfere with what others can best judge, that is, the medical recommendations.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-587	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Mr Gabriel, if we had properly assessed what the 2010 guidelines have meant, then I would not have gone into this debate. There is quite a storm around these guidelines. It is about having an extreme medical emphasis when talking about the treatment of anxiety and depression. If you feel very bad, you obviously need medication to be able to assimilate therapy and so on. Here, however, a form of therapy has been unilaterally chosen, namely the CBT. This means that the county councils have already begun to implement this approach. It also means phasing out other types of therapy. Finally, there is only the CBT, which in itself has a certain breadth, left. Then it will be very one-sided. If I feel bad mentally, I may not be helped by the CBT. Then I could use some therapy. Today, very many people do not get it from the county councils. You don't get conversational therapy, you can get CBT. There are trained and qualified CBT therapists, while others are not, such as CBT therapists in primary care. There is no quality stamp on the CBT. I am rather concerned about these guidelines. I would never enter into a policy discussion if there had not been enormous resistance from those who not only work medically on the issue, but also have the psychodynamic approach. There is much talk about freedom of choice for patients in Sweden and that the method should suit the individual. With these guidelines and the approach that the National Board of Health and Welfare has now developed, this is not the case. It becomes, as it were, one way, a way forward, and that is very unfortunate. Other countries do not take this approach, but there is a completely different scope. I do not understand that we in Sweden should only buy a type of therapy. Nor do I understand why so much electricity is still being used. You can think about that. The extreme discharge of medicine can also be considered. It is great that today there are medicines for people who have depression or anxiety or feel bad in different ways. These people weren't even close to a normal life 10 to 20 years ago, so it's amazing. It's a great success. But then there must be something else. There must be calls, follow-up and so on. That is not the case today, and it was not the case in 2010. I think the guidelines should be evaluated. It is sad that the Minister does not see that you need a whole palette to work with people in crisis. So should the National Board of Health and Welfare. We'll see what the round of consultations gives. There has been a strong influx of referrals. However, this is a common condition. Each individual should have the opportunity to receive the treatment that matches him or her. Maybe it's not CBT. In Sweden we sometimes have an approach to methods that involve using a single method for a number of years. Then when it doesn't work, you take in the next method, instead of having a wide palette. I think that the National Board of Health and Welfare should listen a little more to those who criticise this. This has become a class issue. If you feel mentally ill today and do not get help in primary care, where it looks different in Sweden, you buy the therapy yourself. My question to the Minister is: How can one increase the diversity of evidence-based treatments against depression and anxiety, for example? I do not see any of this in his reply. I understand that he is cautious and does not want to discuss the guidelines, but I think that the Ministry and the National Board of Health and Welfare should listen to the strong wind that exists around these issues. This is not just a medical issue; it has a completely different scope. This must be taken to heart.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-596	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Gabriel Wikström, for your answer! I would like to start by saying that I do not think that we politicians should decide which method cures you or me best. Of course, the profession should do so with those suffering from any kind of ill health. Like Karin Rågsjö, I also think that we need to be able to discuss how to develop guidelines, which we are trying to do. What research is based on is also something that we must be able to look at. The evaluation has been very brief. This condemned both Karolinska Institutet and the Swedish National Audit Office and said that this had no effect on sickness rates. This is what I want to show you. You have to look a little wider. A single medicine doesn't suit everyone. A long-term study has been carried out in Finland, for example, when people with mental illness have been looked at over a ten-year period. It has been seen that a method, such as CBT, can have a good effect in a short-term perspective, while a psychodynamic method can have a better effect in the longer term. This can vary between different people. You lock this in a compartment and tell the health services that this is exactly what applies. The CBT becomes the dominant method. As I said before, you have to pay yourself if you don't think this is appropriate. How many can afford to ask speak 800 – 900 kroner for an hour of psychodynamic therapy a week, which is what it costs if you are going to pay yourself? The public governs healthcare in another direction. No, I'm not talking about who's going to get what medicine.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-600	Mr President, I would like to As has been mentioned most recently, it is important to have a discussion on how to develop guidelines. I agree. There can be many comments on this. One point that I have with regard to guidelines in general is that they are used to such a small extent. Although they are based on recent knowledge and although methods that have been proven to be very effective, they are not used in healthcare in the way they should. Sometimes local or regional guidelines are developed instead of relying on national ones. To overcome this particular problem, the government has set up an investigation. It will see how to increase compliance with national guidelines and recommendations. In this work, I imagine that we are discussing how guidelines are developed in general, whether there are additional aspects to be taken into account and whether this may be due to what is suggested in this debate, namely that there are different attitudes to different treatments among the professions, and that it therefore means that one or the other recommendation is not always used. I hope that there we can find answers to some questions that can help us to make the process of developing national guidelines even better. With regard to the ongoing process of developing these guidelines, it would be totally unreasonable for the government to go in and try to change the current process or have views on the content. It would run counter to the order we have. I do not think the debaters are calling for this either. Now we need to wait for what the consultation round gives and what kind of comments are being made. Of course, we need to see how we take advantage of this in the guidelines and how the guidelines will then be designed so that they can be properly evaluated. The basic issue and the problems that the debaters want to highlight, namely the increase in psychopharmaceuticals, can be a number of reasons. It will be especially important to try to find out the root of the increase in psychopharmaceuticals. Is it simply because the number of people suffering from mental illness is increasing in combination with more seeking care, or is it due to something else? I'm sure we could do more here. I will certainly take that question with me and see if the government, through the agency, can do a better survey to see the underlying factors. We can certainly come back to this. Another problem with both the implementation of guidelines and the care that many children and young people receive is that we have too poorly structured structures around mental illness. I have seen figures, which, although only apply to certain geographical areas of the country, are still considered to speak for the whole country, saying that 40 – 43% of those seeking treatment in a health centre do so because of mental illness. But only one in four gets help. If the knowledge of methods and treatments is low, it is perhaps easy to take what you know about something like that when, i.e. medicines. I'm sure we can do more here to find out the reasons behind this.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-607	Mr President, I would like to Minister! I usually like guidelines. But here it has been so stormy. I have never gone in and discussed guidelines in this way. There is a compact resistance from different groupings, which sees that a particular type of psychotherapy is excluded. It is great that there is now an investigation about the implementation of guidelines and what happens to guidelines, but we can debate this another time. When the guidelines were established in 2010, access to qualified psychotherapy was reduced. This has affected the recruitment of therapists, education and so on. It has simply had major consequences. Perhaps this should be looked at first to investigate what has happened before starting the next group looking at guidelines. In a report, the Swedish National Audit Office has criticised the 2010 guidelines on which the new guidelines are based. Everything has been very narrow, and there has been no possibility of individualization. Perhaps this should be looked at before the next investigation is launched, so that it does not become Same Same. I would like to see a better evaluation of what has happened. As far as medicinal products for children and young people are concerned, I think we are in complete agreement. When someone feels really bad, it might be pills. But it must be understood that there must be follow-up and that there must be something other than pills. Here it looks different in Sweden. Our joint efforts with increased welfare and more money for welfare can of course contribute to better psychotherapy. I am absolutely convinced of that. Let us return to the basic issue. If you remove parts of the therapy that do not work, for example if you have a simple track with just CBT, there is finally only one treatment method left. Then it goes against the whole health care law, which says that you should be personalised. I think you should watch out. I hope that the National Board of Health and Welfare will listen to this and also look at its referrals.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-614	Mr President, I would like to I believe, like the interpellier, that there is much to explore in terms of the development of guidelines and how well they land in the business. But I also believe, as I said in my previous speech, that the basic problem is that we do not have a sufficiently developed care or a sufficiently extended preventive work in the area of mental illness. This means that the care that still exists risks getting a list in one direction or another or that it does not become as patient-centred and adapted to the individual's needs as it should be. I am not sure, however, that we will resolve this by discussing only guidelines or the process of drafting guidelines, but, as we have heard in the debate, it is also a question of how we benefit, how much resources we allocate to welfare and what opportunities we provide for early intervention and preventive work. As for those parts, I look forward to continuing to cooperate with Karin Rågsjö and the Left Party.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-616	Mr President, I would like to Mrs Quicklund has asked me how and when I intend to act to tighten the penalties for doping offences and when I intend to act on the proposal for a national independent anti-doping organisation. As you know, I have answered the same questions by the interpeller as late as February. I maintain that the government is making significant efforts to combat doping throughout our society. In recent years, the government has increased contributions to the anti-doping work of sport. As late as February this year, the Government commissioned the Swedish Public Health Agency to support Stockholm to prevent alcohol and drug problems, City, in the doping prevention work by further developing the working method, 100% pure hard training, and coordinating the P rodis network, Prevention of Doping in Sweden. In addition, a preparation is ongoing in the Government Office of a single national anti-doping organisation. I can also inform you that the government is currently not planning a proposal to amend the law banning certain doping substances. As far as the anti-doping organisation is concerned, I have met representatives of the World Anti-Doping Organisation, Wada, and from the talks I have had, it has emerged that there is an international effort to strengthen the credibility of national anti-doping activities in sport, in the first place by not organising anti-doping work in sport itself. There is a conflict of interest in the same organisation acting to achieve high sporting performance and at the same time carrying out anti-doping work aimed at the same target group. A starting point for establishing a national independent anti-doping organisation with responsibility also within the Swedish Sports Federation is that the association agrees and that the ongoing preparation in dialogue with the Swedish Sports Federation and other actors clarifies how we proceed on this issue.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-621	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This is not the first time we have been in this House discussing doping issues. However, it was not in February– then it was perhaps a written question – but earlier. Interpellation is an excellent way to find answers to questions. Above all, I stand here because I think that, regardless of the answers that have come before, there is a lack of clarity in what the Minister has expressed on these issues. We'll get into it in a minute. In February, the Minister said to Radiosporten: it is important for the credibility of the anti-doping work, not least in the light of the scandals that have been at international level in recent years. What the minister said at the time was in the wake of the doping scandal we have seen in Norway, where Therese Johaug was shut down after the use of a doping drug. In Norway, as I have told the Minister before, there is an independent national anti-doping organisation. The Minister and his own party, the Social Democrats, have highlighted in their sports policy programme the importance of national anti-doping activities in collaboration with the National Sports Federation. An independent national anti-doping activity is outside the RF. There is a lack of clarity here with the Minister. Mr President, I would like to The work against doping must be renewed, and how we organise the work must be reformed. Doping is now not just a sports problem but something much bigger – a social problem. In August last year, Sweden supported the call for an upgrade of the international anti-doping agency Wada's programme. I think that was very good. Kristina Olinder, who was one of the Swedish representatives at the meeting, pointed out that it is not only Wada that needs to be changed. Mr Olinder said: It is about releasing anti-doping work from sports organisations, so that it becomes more objective – quite in the right direction. It is, of course, the events in Russia that underlie her statement. I agree with that 100%. It is important that work on anti-doping issues should be separated from sports organisations in order to prevent conflicts of interest that might otherwise be natural when a sports organisation is going to market itself and also review its own activities. However, the Minister seems to lean too much on what the Chairman of the National Sports Federation has to say. The Minister for Sport has previously stated that he is waiting for Björn Eriksson, who is chairman of RF, to put his foot down. Is it the RF that's gonna put his foot down? Why should we wait for RF, I ask the minister. Of course, we should use the knowledge that RF has and have a good dialogue with them, but I would like to see more forceful action by the government on this issue. If the RF now wants to keep this activity as it is today, that is to say within the organisation, how will the Minister act, and when will we find out about it?
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-630	Mr President, I would like to I assume that we are having a debate on how to organise the anti-doping work because both I and the interpellete have a desire to do more to get to the doping which, after all, exists in our country. As I said, there is much more to be done here. Although we have come a long way, not least with regard to the anti-doping work in organised sport, there is an increase in the level of unorganised sport, not least in a number of gyms around the country. Here the current organisation in the field of anti-doping sometimes has difficulty in taking effective action. While we are discussing what we could do to improve the anti-doping work – I fully agree with the interpellant's view that we need a stand-alone anti-doping organisation – we also need to assess what we already have and what works well in our country today. Then we can see that the anti-doping work has been going forward for a long time and that we have an activity that works well when you study it to a large extent. When making changes, I think it is very important to build on the good experience and organisation that exists today, so that you do not risk throwing the baby out with the bathwater. That is why I and the government are so keen to engage in an in-depth dialogue with the Swedish Sports Federation, to turn and turn the pros and cons of different solutions and to find a common way forward. Once an independent anti-doping organisation is established, it will, despite being independent, be dependent on having a good cooperation with the Swedish sports movement in a broad sense. I believe that this is a prerequisite for good anti-doping work in general. Precisely considering that the anti-doping work in Sweden works as well as it does, I find it difficult to understand why Saila Quicklund is in such a hurry that she has to find a completely new order for the anti-doping work in Sweden. We do not see that there are enormous shortcomings that would be corrected by means of an independent organisation or, for that matter, that we would gain huge profits in practical terms from the creation of an independent organisation. Saila Quicklund cites Norway as an example. I do not know, but I myself think that Norway may not be the best example, given the scandals that have occurred in that country precisely in relation to doping in organised sport. This shows well that an independent anti-doping organisation does not have to be a guarantor in itself for good anti-doping work. Otherwise, I can say that in many ways I and Saila Quicklund agree on the basic approach. It is more about the method and speed at which we are approaching the goal and what we are prepared to sacrifice in order to achieve the goal of an independent anti-doping organisation.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-636	Mr President, I would like to We've combined two interpellations. Therefore, there is no room now to comment on this issue much more. But it is about the credibility of sport. I am not saying that it does not work well in Sweden when it comes to anti-doping work. But putting it outside the sports movement is about the credibility of sport. I'll go over to the next interpellation. The Social Democrats' sports policy programme highlights the proposal – the Minister has commented on it too – to increase the penalties for doping crimes. I have previously asked the Minister about that. I don't think I got a good answer about the approach and the idea behind it. Baptism crime is a social problem – that's what we were talking about earlier. It's not just a sports problem. On average, 1 500 doping drugs are seized every year in Sweden. That's a huge amount of money. So we are talking about 400 000 illegal tablets. We see that there is a catastrophic development on this particular side. There's doping in the country. Then we should also know that there is a great number of darkness – absolutely. The Minister has previously pointed out that in February the Government commissioned the Public Health Agency to support Stockholm to prevent a lkohol- and drug problem, the City, and also the prevention of doping in Sweden, Prodis. The Minister for Sport also talks about increased government efforts in the field of doping. The truth is that the government has taken away funds for Dopingjouren, the 3 million. That activity must now be discontinued at a time when the needs are greatest. Instead, a single employee at the Public Health Agency, for example in Östersund, will support both the City and Prodis. These are unrealistically small resources. It is a major reduction that they themselves say will hit the rest of the country very hard. The focus will be on Stockholm. The Minister has also highlighted the proposal for unannounced doping tests at the gym even if there is no suspicion of a crime. It is a remarkable proposal, which is also contrary to the fundamental principles of the rule of law, the form of government and the European Convention on Fundamental Human Rights. Privacy is extremely strong. What was the minister thinking here? The Moderates really have no objection to harsher penalties, but they must be proportionate between the doping offences and the drug offences. We've talked about that before. The law on the prohibition of certain doping substances is similar to the criminal law regulation of drug offences. So there is no need to distinguish doping offences and drug offences from each other. The police are already able to carry out doping checks at the gym when someone is reasonably suspected. It is therefore important that the police have the means to carry out these checks. For the minister, it may be worth talking to colleagues at the Ministry of Justice, so that there are resources for the police. However, for the sake of clarity on this important subject, I would like to ask the Minister: how does the Minister intend to act on his proposal to tighten the penalties for doping? If there is not a sharper punishment, as I was told in the answer, I wonder: Was the Minister's previous statement just a blow to the air?
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-642	Mr President, I would like to I can only repeat what I said in the interpellation response. At the moment, we are not investigating any more stringent penalties in this particular area. However, one thing should be borne in mind when it comes to the possibility of doing doping checks in gyms, for example. It already exists today. It occurs at Friskis & Svettis. This is because Friskis & Svettis is a member of the Swedish Sports Federation. Then it counts as an organized sporting activity. It's a model you could look at. This will give us an automatic possibility to carry out different types of controls, but of course also to carry out much more thorough preventive work in the field of doping. It is clear that such a system will be particularly interesting to discuss when discussing an independent anti-doping organisation. Because then one would get away from one of the problems that Saila Quicklund raised in her last post. In general, I think that doping issues are doing very well in the sense that the preventive work against doping is very good to be done together with the preventive work on drugs and alcohol, for example. That is why the government has a comprehensive strategy in this area. We have just brought together the work in these different areas with a common target structure. The people who work with preventive work in municipalities, county boards, county councils and so on can also feel updated on what is happening in the doping area. I think that's an advantage. We need to develop this structure in different ways. Not least, it is about reviewing what resources we are allocating here in the future, but it is also about how we can get a better structure at work. This is not least about how we can ensure that the knowledge that exists among other things at the Public Health Agency reaches out to those who work in county boards, county councils, municipalities, NGOs and more in a much better way than today. It is a work that is currently under way in the Government Office. I hope that this will result in a better structure for anti-doping work throughout the country, as I said.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-646	Mr President, I would like to I think there is a consensus between us on the importance of anti-doping work. There is a consensus in the rhetoric, but it is not visible in practice. I still think there is some ambiguity. The Minister has made moves and talked about a national anti-doping organisation in collaboration with RF. That's not what Wada wants. In the next breath we are talking about a national independent organisation, which I advocate. There is a lack of clarity. There are many of us who want to know what the Minister really intends to implement. The Minister has also made calls for tougher penalties for doping offences, but there is no proposal or proposal in the pipeline. There is also no forward work linked to that move. The government is talking about spending on doping, but instead cuts are being made on Dopingjouren. SEK 3 million is withdrawn, which has major consequences. There will be an independent anti-doping activity, but we will wait for RF. Is the business independent? What does the Minister want? What the Minister is saying is still unclear – this at a time when the introduction of hazardous preparations into the country is enormous. We will also add the supplements that flow in uncontrollably. Many young people also use the drugs. Of course I'm worried. I will certainly have reason to come back to this issue again. It is important for the credibility of sport. It is also a question of public health in the country. Efforts are needed now, and we cannot wait any longer. At least I thank you for the debate so far.
i-21aabb3e7b2a4f1e-653	Mr President, I would like to It is absolutely right that efforts are needed now. This is also why the government has made a number of efforts in this area to increase, not least, prevention. I do not think that a stand-alone anti-doping organisation would mean such great improvements in practice in a short perspective. On the other hand, it would increase the credibility of anti-doping work in a longer term perspective. It would streamline the roles of the sports movement. I have repeated several times that when a change is to be made in an area that generally works well, it is important to go forward carefully so that you do not risk that there will be deterioration where you want there to be improvements. That is why the government has endeavoured to have a good dialogue with the Swedish Sports Federation to see how we can build on the good anti-doping work that is being done today. I am absolutely convinced that although an anti-doping organisation is completely independent, it needs good cooperation with the sports movement in a country. That is what I have been referring to when I have said in statements that this must be done in different types of collaboration with the Swedish Sports Federation. There must be good consensus, information must be exchanged and there must be joint ownership of the anti-doping work. As the interpeller also points out, the proposal on penalties and the like is set out in the Social Democrats' sports policy programme. This programme is a vision document that sets out a long-term direction for the sports movement. This does not mean that from day one, once the programme has been adopted, the government will implement everything. As far as the penalty scales are concerned, we don't have an investigation going on. But, as I said, it's a long-term vision document.
