i-BUGrb7E9Bthe9iqmeoNm7D	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson, Minister of State Anders Ygeman, Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke and Minister of State Ann Linde. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-0	Mr President, I would like to A child has been shot to death on Thursday night at the bus stop near his home in Malmö. Another life has been extinguished because of the senseless violence on Malmö's streets. Ahmed Obaid is dead. After the murder, one of Ahmed's acquaintances, Mohammad, Modda, wrote on his Facebook page: My stomach hurts, can't breathe. Can't understand exactly what I've heard, can't believe why. People die! What's the police doing? What are the people doing? What am I doing? What are you doing? He is, of course, right; we all have a responsibility. Modda's sitting here in the gallery today. He and everyone else who is concerned about insecurity also have the right to know how responsible the minister will act. What news will Anders Ygeman bring up with the head of National Police Dan Eliasson at your meeting tomorrow? Will Malmö residents be able to feel safer in the future?
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-4	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank Sofia Damm for the question. There is, of course, nothing worse than when a child is torn away – for the relatives, for Malmö and for Sweden. The government has taken a number of strong measures to tackle organised crime and serious violent crime. We've tightened weapons laws. We are now introducing compulsory detention and two years' minimum punishment for possession of arms. We have made it possible to punish the leader of a criminal organisation for not hindering crime known to him. We have significantly increased the police budget and are now spending over 2 billion extra on the police. All of this is done to strengthen the resilience of society and fight back against serious crime. The police in Region Syd and Malmö have also received increased resources. And of course, it's my hope, like yours, that this will lead to the arrest of the killer.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-7	Mr President, I would like to The Home Secretary has said that the results of the police must be reversed before the end of the year. Now it's a new year, and several new murders have been committed. Will the Minister of the Interior respond to the demands made by Malmö residents during the manifestation of violence on Monday? I assume that the Minister for the Interior has been informed of what was said.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-9	Mr President, I would like to The answer to Sofia Damm's question is yes. This government response, too, presented Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, who participated in the well-attended manifestation in Malmö. Our hope, of course, is that it will put the guilty, or the guilty, under lock and key.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-11	Mr. Iman! My question goes to Mr Alice Bah Kuhnke, Minister for Culture and Democracies. Now the process of fulfilling the announcement by this House to investigate how the future funding of public services is to be carried out is under way. It's good and welcome. At the same time, a new permit period is now approaching for public service broadcasters. I assume that at the moment there is a reconciliation. In addition, new work will be carried out to develop an agreement for a new permit period. These elements are closely linked to the financing. My question is: how does the Minister for Culture and Democracy intend to combine these three processes with one?
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-15	Mr President, I would like to Public service is about a new broadcasting permit to be investigated. It is a delicate task to investigate the broadcasting licence for public service but also to get it in place, because it sets the framework for the extremely important activities of public services. It is an activity that needs to be heavily funded but also to allow for the important scrutiny and the important offering of public services. The Government decided on 16 December to set up a parliamentary committee to investigate, among other things, a new system for financing public service broadcasting. The mission is fully in line with Parliament's announcement. In addition, the entire large broadcasting permit will be investigated. So we are going to start with funding, and then we will look into the framework of the entire broadcasting licence.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-18	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Culture and Democracy for his answer. These three processes are intimately linked. My supplementary question will then be: Will Parliament and Parliament's parties also be involved in the permit process to combine these three processes, now that we have a parliamentary inquiry into funding under way?
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-21	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the prerequisites for public service, both the funding and the foundation of the entire business, are something that the parties in the Riksdag must discuss and feel that they are behind. This long-term approach, which creates the conditions for independence, is the very basis. If such a thing does not exist, it is not much of a framework or a prerequisite. Bengt Eliasson should therefore expect the parties of the Riksdag to be involved in these discussions.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-25	Mr President, I would like to On 11-12 February, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven visited Iran at the invitation of President Rohani. On the trip there is also a business delegation with representatives of a large number of Swedish companies and authorities led by Minister of Trade Ann Linde. The aim of the trip is to promote and increase Swedish presence on the Iranian market, which has historically been one of Sweden's most important export markets in the Middle East. In their press release, the government writes: Iran and Sweden also have close ties through the large Iranian diaspora in Sweden. This is both a bit comical and frightening, because a large part of the diaspora that we have in Sweden is made up of people who have fled the terror of the Iranian regime. I therefore wonder whether and how Minister Linde intends to highlight human rights during the journey, and above all whether the Minister for Trade considers Iran to be a dictatorship.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-30	Mr President, I would like to I thank Håkan Svenneling for the question. Of course, we will highlight human rights, democracy and gender equality issues when the Prime Minister and I lead a delegation to Iran. Sweden is a small and export-dependent country. Half of our bnp comes from exports, and 1.4 million Swedes have jobs to go to thanks to exports. That is why we are investing a great deal in trade-promoting delegations. Iran is also an important political and economic player. It affects us a lot, and it affects the entire region of the Middle East a lot. Iran's position is now very important when we are on the UN Security Council. This delegation will include a number of authorities. It is therefore not just companies, but also authorities and trade union representatives.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-35	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. The Left Party believes that democracies should be given priority over dictatorships as trading partners for Sweden. One might therefore wonder whether some civil society organisations will be part of the Prime Minister's delegation and Minister Linde will have in Iran, so that there is the opportunity to bring forward those who have the most knowledge of human rights and restrictions on them. I also want to go back to the question I asked. Does the Government consider Iran to be a dictatorship?
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-38	Mr President, I would like to As the honourable Member will know, we do not label countries. Iran is an important political player in an important and conflict-filled region. It affects us at home in Sweden, and it is important that we talk to Iran. Of course, however, as I said at the beginning, we will address both human rights and democracy during the journey. We also have preparatory meetings with, among other things, human rights organisations to get full information about what is going on.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-39	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Home Affairs Anders Ygeman. Last Monday I was in Malmö. It is a city where insecurity has escalated to an unacceptable level. Among other things, we met the police to get an up - to - date picture, and it is not very bright. Last year, 156 criminal shootings took place. Seven of them had a fatal outcome. According to the police's own method documents, so-called reconnaissance killings should be investigated by a fairly large group of people; 25 – 30 people should be included. On paper Malmö will have three such groups, so-called PUG groups. This is not the case, however, but Malmö has 13 people who can work with such investigations. Would it not be wise to bring forward the efforts announced by the government? We in the Center Party already want to invest 520 million in this year, while the government wants to invest 100 million.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-42	Mr President, I would like to The answer to Johan Hedin's question is no. The reason for that is that it takes two and a half years to train a cop. No matter how much more the government would invest in the police this year, it would not give a single additional police officer. The Swedish government has strongly increased the bid for Swedish police – more than 2 billion more are being invested. We have also made it possible to employ a large number of civil investigators; I think we are in the order of 800. This, of course, makes it possible to increase the investigative capacity very much. Then, perhaps, a little on the margin, I would like to warn Johan Hedin about PUG methodology and PUG groups. PUG groups and PUG methodology are different in different phases of the investigation. Above all, it is a methodological support for investigators to use.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-44	Mr President, I would like to I'm afraid the Home Secretary only sees one side of the personnel problem. It's one thing to get new cops into the organization, and it's another thing to make sure that those who already work there don't stop. I believe that it will take a great deal of effort on their working environment and working conditions to get them to stay. So we will be able to discuss this issue for a long time and well in the future.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-45	Mr President, I would like to I would like to assure Johan Hedin that we are seeing both sides. We also see that police officers who have stopped returning to the profession, and that is a positive thing. One reason why the government has chosen to send so much extra money to the police is that it will be possible to improve the working environment and working conditions. However, part of the work environment and working conditions is about getting more police employees and more police officers in place, to facilitate the working environment for those who are police officers. It is therefore gratifying that we now have more police employees in Sweden than we have ever had before.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-47	Mr President, I would like to The National Security Survey conducted by the National Crime Prevention Council was presented last week. It shows that insecurity, especially among women, is increasing. More young women also report sexual offences, which is very serious. This is nothing new, Mr President. We have seen year after year that there is greater insecurity among women. Therefore, I would like to ask Minister of Home Affairs Anders Ygeman, who is a minister of a feminist government, what measures the government is taking to increase the security of women – both on the basis of the picture we have already had and, in particular, on the basis of the picture that the latest study shows.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-49	Mr President, I would like to I thank Annika Hirvonen Falk for the question. It is a question that has animated the government from day one. That is the background to the fact that today we have more police workers than we have ever had before and to the fact that we are spending billions of extra money on the police. That is also the reason why we are doing a great job of security, where we start with crime prevention. It is important that every person in our society, man or woman, should feel safe outdoors and in their home. There is a significant insecurity gap between men and women, and that is why we need to invest extra resources and extra effort in making women feel safe in public spaces. It can be such things as having more police in the local community, more camera surveillance, better lighting and better crime prevention work.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-51	Mr President, I would like to At the risk that this does not fall within the remit of the Home Secretary, I would like to say that there is also a clear gap between those who commit sex crimes and those who are victims. What we see is that almost all sexual crimes are committed by men. I believe that society must work more towards the destructive masculinity standards that are likely to be behind this. I therefore wonder what the government is doing in this area.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-52	Mr President, I would like to We have extensive work in this area, under the leadership of Minister for Gender Equality Åsa Regnér. In the area of justice and migration, we have also just received the Sex Crime Investigation report, where there are a number of proposals to strengthen sex crime legislation and make it clear that it should be based on reciprocity.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-53	Mr President, I would like to In order to understand the development of society and be able to interpret different trends, facts and statistics are often quite good data for us decision-makers, for example. However, the Red Green Government, the Moderates and some others have said no to giving the Crime Prevention Council a renewed mandate to produce statistics on immigrants' crime. Such statistics could be used to analyse the impact of the enormous immigration that has taken place in Sweden in the 21st century. It is likely that such statistics could show that the immigration and integration policies of the Alliance and the Red-Greens have resulted in increased crime among foreign-borns. It could also show different crime trends with cultural or racist motives, for example when it comes to sexual crimes. We want to know what your immigration policy has done to our country, Anders Ygeman. Why don't you want to know?
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-56	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Adam Marttinen! You don't seem to want to know at all, but you already seem to have the answer. You're reading what you think is the expression of that. It is a very strange view of research and statistics – to first request research and then tell us what it will come up with. It was something you were doing in old Soviet countries. Let me also remind Adam Marttinen of the government that produced the statistics he refers to. It was the former Social Democratic Government. The research society says that there is no reason to produce further statistics because the conclusions of that research are still valid. I also believe that there are 14 different studies that suggest the same thing, namely that there is an over-representation of immigrants in crime, and that it is quite large. However, it has social causes first and foremost – in the same way that Swedes were over-represented in crime when we emigrated to Denmark or that Italians and Irish were when they emigrated to the United States.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-58	Mr President, I would like to I think Anders Ygeman didn't really listen to what I said. I said that it could probably be that the results showed something like what we have seen in the past. However, we have had immigration to Sweden in the 21st century, which has even led the Green Party to want to introduce border controls, and this obviously means that this is happening again today. I understand why Ygeman does not want to tell the people the truth about the latest effects of the immigration policy we have had, but I would like to give a tip in all the well-meaning: You can sharpen the arguments, Anders Ygeman.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-60	Mr President, I would like to I thank Adam Marttinen for that call. Let me be clear, however, that I have no problem with such research being carried out. It has been done, and it will be done again. The former Social Democratic Government was the one who commissioned the research report presented by Adam Marttinen himself. But if we believe – as does Adam Marttinen – that the research being carried out today would produce the same results as the previous research, there seems to be better things to invest research resources on.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-62	Mr President, I would like to Last Thursday, a week ago, a new murder occurred in Malmö. A 16-year-old boy was shot down at a bus stop on Amiralsgatan in Rosengård. It was just before seven o'clock in the evening, and there were plenty of people nearby – people on their way home from work and school or on their way to restaurants, libraries and training. This is a snapshot from my constituency, where violence is becoming a part of everyday life. We Moderates want to see more police officers, higher salaries for the skilled men and women who work to protect us all, and reinforced the fight against organised crime. Today, all the figures point in the wrong direction with regard to the police's lack of resources and their withdrawal from the police profession. The main losers are those who live in the country's alienated areas.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-65	Mr President, I would like to I thank Tobias Billström for the question. Let me first welcome the fact that Tobias Billström and the Moderates support the government's policy in this regard – more police officers and tougher legislation. I welcome this. There need be no doubt that this is the direction in which Sweden should go. However, I am a little hesitant when Tobias Billström says that all the figures point in the wrong direction. I would like Tobias Billström to develop this. We have had more police officers in the affected areas – more policemen than were there during the time that the Moderates and Tobias Billström sat in Rosenbad. We have more police employees than we've ever had before – more than when Tobias Billström was in Rosenbad. We are also spending more money on the police now than ever before – more than when Tobias Billström was in Rosenbad. I think it's too easy for you to say that everything is pointing in the wrong direction. The challenge in Malmö is probably so serious anyway, without blacking out or trying to pick simple political points on it.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-70	Mr President, I would like to On the same morning as the news of the last murder – the fifteenth murder in a row – Malmö residents were informed of extensive reductions in police operations in Region Syd, with savings of up to SEK 90 million for 2017. According to the police's own data, 90% of these savings will be made through reduced personnel costs. This is happening at the same time as the national security survey, which came today, shows an increased proportion of people who feel insecure – while confidence in the police in Skåne falls.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-72	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased to say to Tobias Billström that the figures he mentions are simply not true. The police in Region South will receive a contribution of SEK 147 million. There will be no cuts in staff in the South Region, and the South Region will be helped to investigate the many murders that have hit it.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-74	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to Mr Ylva Johansson, Minister for Labour and Establishment. Our main tool for combating unemployment is education. Therefore, it is good that the government invests in a substantial knowledge boost, a more efficient validation and fast track for new arrivals. Unfortunately, immigrants find it harder to get a job. At the same time, many new arrivals have solid training from their home country, and therefore the investment in fast track is very welcome. Many fast tracks work very well, while other fast tracks have been delayed. This is due, among other things, to the fact that procurements have had to be redeployed and that the Public Employment Service has had shortcomings in its mapping of new arrivals' skills.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-79	Mr President, I would like to I thank Thomas Strand for raising an issue that is very important. The very first fast tracks have now been running for a year, and we are constantly starting new fast tracks. Today we have about 2 800 people taking part in fast track – people with professional experience and/or training in shortage professions, who get a faster way into their profession. It is true that some of the fast tracks have had problems. I've already taken action. I have ensured that Arbetsförmedlingen is now working with high priority on this and have assigned special people responsible for the fast track to get the procurements in order. My State Secretary has met the parties in the fast track where there have been some kind of problems, to facilitate this. We can now see that this is working better and better. There are about twice as many men as women take part in the fast track, which is something we need to be aware of in the future. We know that newly arrived women find it more difficult than newly arrived men to get a job.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-83	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. I note with satisfaction that the Minister has taken steps to get as many fast track as possible going, because these measures are very important. We need more people to work, both to meet the urgent need for labour that exists in many industries and to be equipped for future major retirements. I thank you once again for your answer and urge the government to continue working hard for good fast track.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-86	Mr President, I would like to I can promise Thomas Strand that we will. I myself participated, in December, at the end of the very first fast track for teachers and preschool teachers. These people had walked about six months in this fast track. This does not mean that everyone has their IDs ready, but then comes assessments. Some are ready to be tested for the licence requirement – others need additional language training or other things to meet the high quality standards we have.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-89	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Anders Ygeman. Recently, Folk och Försvar held their annual conference in Sälen. There were a lot of reactions after the State Council's speech there. The reactions concerned the declaration that priority should be given to the cyber threats and that the Government stated that there is no need to return to stocks of food and other food. We have recently agreed on the objectives of a food strategy. This includes increased domestic production, which is a good thing, but this requires a strategy. I would like to ask whether it is true that the Government considers food security to be a non-issue in the event of a crisis. To clarify the government's position on this issue, what measures is the Minister prepared to take?
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-93	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Gunilla Nordgren for the question. The answer is simple: no. Of course, it is of the utmost importance that, in the event of a crisis, in the event of increased preparedness or – in the worst case – in the event of war, the civilian population can have access to food and water. What I expressed at Folk och Försvar was that the supply balance is not a good measure of the ability to feed and water the civilian population. The reason for this is that there are so many other things than basic essential food that are part of the supply balance. Our consumption pattern has simply changed so that we drink wine and eat pineapple and other products that are not relevant to our consumption at war. This consumption is mainly about access to clean water and basic food, and perhaps also about access to fuel in order to keep a functioning distribution apparatus running.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-96	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. That is right, and that is why I think we should invest in biofuels so that we do not become dependent on abroad. Water is, quite rightly, our most important food. I wasn't at the conference myself, but I've read the speech and listened to the conference afterwards – maybe next year I'll go there. In fact, it was perceived that it was considered that IT, electricity and energy are important but that food is not so important. It was a bit of a boring reaction, and that is why I would like clarification.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-98	Mr President, I would like to I share the view, particularly on the report from Question Time. That is why I am grateful to Gunilla Nordgren today in this House for asking this question so that I have had the opportunity to correct the errors.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-100	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ylva Johansson. As is well known, there are staff positions in hospitals around the country. Planned treatments are cancelled, patients are sent to other hospitals and, at worst, severely ill patients are sent home. Last time there was a small baby in Stockholm who was sent home, and unfortunately later died. There is much talk about the lack of a place to care. But it is not always a matter of lack of a place of care, a lack of beds and a lack of places, but more and more often a lack of staff. Nurses are currently fleeing the county councils due to poor working environment and the workload. It is worrying that healthcare is now drained on both knowledge and experience. Mass redundancies risk our patient safety, and more injuries and deaths will probably happen in the future if this is allowed to continue.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-104	Mr President, I would like to We are turning a trend that has been going in the wrong direction for many years. Now we are running out of savings and tax cuts. Now we are investing heavily in the core business of welfare, to which health care definitely belongs. The government has invested large, new resources to the county councils, but more will be needed. We are making major investments in the work environment, both at the Swedish Work Environment Agency with a new work environment strategy and at the research within work environment work. Of course, my colleague Gabriel Wikström has a close dialogue with the health care authorities within the county councils. It is an important question how to give staff sufficient scope to act professionally. Many people today feel that there is too much pressure on us to ensure that resources are not enough, but also to manage and manage so-called new public management, which has taken the edge of the opportunity to use its profession to the full. This is a development that the government is working to reverse.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-108	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. It's great to make bets. However, efforts will take time. Rather, the question is what to do in the short term. It is, as I said, a mass layoff at the moment. We have over 10,000 nurses who are trained but who have chosen to work elsewhere because of, among other things, poor working environment. What do we do to get them back right here and now, and how do we stop now that more people are fleeing the county councils? It's a very important security issue.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-110	Mr President, I would like to It is true that we cannot just wait for all new resources to be effective. It is also important that each county council takes full responsibility. The county council that the member himself addresses, Stockholm County Council, is a county council with relatively good economics and good conditions. Nevertheless, there are major problems with maintaining staff. It's about the priorities you make. There, each county council has a responsibility to prioritise so that the staff wants to stay and develop in the profession and that more can be attracted to choose the profession.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-113	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put my question to the Minister for Culture and Democracy, Alice Bah Kuhnke. Threats, hatred, harassment, slander and the dissemination of privacy-sensitive images, which sometimes destroy the lives of many individuals, are becoming everyday.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-116	Mr. Talmman! Yes, hatred and threats are a huge problem. It is a problem that has not arisen in recent years, but has slowly but surely grown and become a threat not only to the individuals affected, many of whom are young girls, bloggers, but also to cultural workers, artists, who practice their freedoms. It is also a threat to journalists who are to review power and who are working in the service of democracy. And politicians, not least local politicians, are vulnerable – elected representatives who have led citizens' voices to pursue their issues. For the first time in the year, we will launch an action plan, identifying the most vulnerable groups and also measures to curb the threats and hate speech.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-118	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Democracy. False news is also spread online. We have a lot of residents who sometimes can't tell what's real and what's fake news. How can we prevent this?
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-120	Mr President, I would like to Of course, there is much we need to do. My main task when it comes to getting us people to truly embrace the true news is to strengthen the conditions for journalism in our country. That's why the first investigation I set up was a media investigation. We need new support for the free, independent press so that it can continue to be there to review the powers, such as myself, but also the lives of people in the local society in which we live. We need journalism. We can't afford white spots.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-125	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is in a situation where, in absolute terms, there are more foreign-born than domestic-born people who are unemployed, even though foreign-born people make up only 17 per cent of the labour force.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-127	Mr President, I would like to What Boriana Åberg says is true. We have a situation with a very strong labour market, and many who were previously unemployed have got jobs. But we still have many unemployed people enrolled in the Employment Service, especially many who are recently enrolled. Many people came to Sweden and applied for asylum in 2015. As some of them receive their residence permit, they are registered at Arbetsförmedlingen from the first day. Then, of course, there will be an expected increase in the number of unemployed people born abroad. This is one of my biggest challenges. The foreign born are at least as different as those of us who were born in the country. This means that people must be treated differently. Fast track works for those who bring professional experience. We are investing heavily in training for those who have not been given the chance to get training, on targeted actions for subsidised employment for others and on a partnership with employers.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-130	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. Education is good and fast track is good, but it is the combination of generous grants, high entry wages and rigid employment rules that keep people away from the labour market. Is the government prepared to radically reconsider its policy in this area and make changes that really affect unemployment rates?
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-133	Mr President, I would like to Today we could read in Today's industry that the credit rating agency Moodys describes Sweden as an oasis, where we stand out doing exactly the right things to increase growth. No, I am not prepared to turn the direction of Sweden. We're heading in the right direction. But more needs to be done in labour market policy and education policy and by the parties to provide faster access to the labour market for the many foreign born who we need in the Swedish labour market.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-136	Mr President, I would like to Civil society made an invaluable contribution in the autumn of 2015 when the extraordinary situation with incoming refugees arose. In the emergency situation, the government allocated an additional grant of SEK 200 million to selected organisations. For a whole range of organisations, the need for their efforts only arose in 2016. When the acute phase was over, a lot of scouting, football, choral singing and more were needed to provide fellowship and recreation for all new children and young people. For this there is no new aid, but the same cake that has previously been distributed. Unfortunately, a large organization, the Scouts, has received 2 million less support despite the fact that their activities have not been reduced.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-139	Mr President, I would like to Support for civil society is, of course, an absolutely central function of Swedish society. We have a civil society we should be proud of. We have an association life that does much of what the municipality and state cannot and should not do. We need a community life that blooms. That is why we have a generous benefit system – a benefit system in which the Scouts, which are a youth organisation, are supported by youth organisations. But of course there are also a number of project grants. We are a government that wants to see an even stronger civil society. That is why we have increased support for civil society at large. But there is certainly reason to continue to discuss that the aid is right and that we do not tie our organisations into a way of counting their membership to also get this support. This is a discussion that I am happy to have, and I know that Anna Ekström, who is responsible for civil society support for youth organisations, is also happy to discuss this.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-143	Mr President, I would like to This is an interesting situation because we now have an unusually large number of new people in the country who need this civil society, which both the Government and I like so much, both for democratic education and for leisure activities. The Government says it is important to continue the discussion, but I still wonder whether it actually intends to take any steps to strengthen civil society.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-145	Mr President, I would like to Yes, of course! We have strengthened civil society as never before in the last two years. Hundreds of more millions have gone to civil society since we took office as a government compared to what it was like under the previous government. This is not only due to the situation we are in and will continue to be in where a great many people need support, help and extra entrances, but civil society policy is an important policy for today's government.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-147	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Home Affairs Anders Ygeman. Fireworks we think are all beautiful and festive, not least in connection with New Year's, Walborg and Easter. Unfortunately, the amazing and beautiful nowadays is changed many times to horror and horror for several weeks around these feasts. In my municipality of Södertälje, after the New Year, the situation is described as totally unsustainable, despite the clarity of the legislation on what can be sold and to whom and despite the fact that our municipality, like several other municipalities, has a very restrictive local order charter for this.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-151	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Mrs Ingela Nylund Watz for this question. The simple answer is: yes, I think so. There are far-reaching possibilities in the municipal charter for municipalities to limit the timing and geographical scope of fireworks. However, it is possible that we need to tighten up supervision, both in terms of the use of these pieces and how they are sold. I welcome the action plan developed by the industry to further limit the pieces to be sold. This requires that we in society can also tighten up supervision so that it is the serious, responsible sellers of fireworks that are responsible for sales in Sweden.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-156	Mr President, I would like to Several municipalities, like Södertälje, have tried to go further than they have already done in terms of being tough in the local order charter. Among other things, several municipalities have requested authorisation from their county administrative boards and other authorities, i.e. that they may request permission from the police. But county administrative boards and administrative courts have been quite repulsive.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-158	Mr President, I would like to It remains to be seen. There is a limit to when this type of activity becomes subject to authorisation, namely in the case of larger and arranged occasions. On the other hand, we do not have the kind of restrictions for legal individuals who make use of the pieces that exist in the trade. We shall, of course, see if we can do anything further to promote positive and restrictive use and to strengthen the responsible parts of the industry.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-160	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Culture feels apostrophated as long as I approach the speaker's chair, and my question goes to the Minister for Culture. A proposal for a new cultural heritage policy is currently on the table of the Law Council and has not yet been submitted by the government. In order to prevent the debacle from reoccurring when we had film policy up in Parliament and we sent back a lot of questions to the government, I would like to ask whether the government intends to incorporate the 2004 UN Convention on the Immunity of Government-owned Objects into Swedish law in the forthcoming bill.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-162	Mr President, I would like to I thank Cecilia Magnusson for the question. We have tabled a legislative referral, which describes what will be covered. I will readily admit that I cannot say with certainty that this is covered in the proposal. I'll have to get back to you with more clarity.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-164	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Culture for his answer. This is extremely important if Swedish museum visitors are to have the opportunity to see foreign exhibitions on Swedish soil. For example, a Marc Chagall exhibition did not come up, and there are several such questions. That is why it is important to have a prepared question that the government can only put into its cultural heritage bill. Does this come in the bill?
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-167	Mr President, I would like to What is in the legislative referral is there, and that is what we have to deal with and which will then be discussed in Parliament. What is important is that, for the first time, we receive proposals for a vibrant, strong and active cultural heritage policy. It is something that our country has missed but that this government now wants to put in place.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-170	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. The suburbs are often raised up as no go zones. The image of the media and the debate on vulnerable areas by some parties are frightening. This approach is both wrong and dangerous. There is a structure of the relevant social actors based on a reactive approach and not on a proactive approach. It responds to problems when they arise instead of trying to prevent them in advance. The government is already making efforts to increase security, but we must fight the breeding ground of crime.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-175	Mr President, I would like to It is an extremely important issue raised by Arhe Hamednaca, and it is high on the government's agenda. Large parts of Sweden are moving in the right direction; it is a positive development. But this does not apply to everyone in Sweden. A policy that narrows the gap and increases the chances of life for all is the top priority for this government. Jobs have a key function in this. The opportunity to support yourself and your family through their own work is not the only one but the single most important building block for both enhanced self-esteem and being able to make your voice heard in society. That is why we are making targeted efforts to improve school outcomes, which are directly linked to young people's chances of getting a job. I also have a high priority that no young person should be unemployed for more than 90 days before she gets a decent job, a job or an education. Here we have come a long way.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-179	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. It is sometimes easier to talk about young people who have gone wrong. Young people end up in a no-man's-land when it doesn't work in the home and society surrenders. It is very important to make long-term efforts, especially in the field of prevention. It's easier to talk about the kids. The problem is that you do not see unemployment, the long-term sick parents, how the home is doing and how society takes care of these young people. I'm glad the government is making long-term efforts.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-180	Mr President, I would like to It is very important to see the connection. Children's and young people's opportunities to see the future brightly depend greatly on how one views the situation of parents and other close adults. When Mom goes to work, more things happen than Mom can make a living, make her voice heard, and get her own money. It affects the whole family that the parents get to work. We now have a very strong labour market. Now it is also a question of active labour market policy, and I promise Arhe Hamednaca that I will deliver.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-182	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has a long tradition of freedom of expression and press freedom. The right to express oneself freely and to disseminate information is a fundamental pillar of Swedish democracy and a prerequisite for democratic governance. There is a debate today that measures should be taken to prevent the spread of so-called false news. According to some debaters, online social networking services bear a responsibility for the increasing spread of false news. The platforms of the social networks enable the members of the platform to disseminate information to a large number of people. The Minister for Democracy stated in an interview in Expressen on 1 December 2016 that Facebook has a great responsibility for what is published on the platform and thus also for the dissemination of fake news. Furthermore, the Minister said that unless Facebook starts to take responsibility for its product and stops being an arena for threats, hatred and false news, binding measures may be necessary. My question to the Minister is therefore: what does the Minister think is the reason why the Constitution today has no binding measures against the spread of false news?
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-186	Mr President, I would like to Our freedom of expression, which is protected by our constitution, is one of the most important things that we have to defend and preserve in times like these. This is also something that I emphasised today in the Constitutional Committee when we debated, for example, the AV directive, which is highly topical and which we are discussing within our Union. Aron Emilsson mentions false news. It goes without saying that all companies have the responsibility to contribute in different ways to the products they supply being good products. Often companies have codes of conduct. The answer to Mr Emilsson's question, which is really about why I think our constitution looks like it does, is simply that it is needed and needs to be defended and preserved. What I was referring to in the interview that Aron Emilsson referred to was that proposals about including also transgender people in hate crime legislation are currently being prepared at the Ministry of Justice under the Minister of Justice.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-189	Mr President, I would like to No one is satisfied with a lack of source criticism and objectivity in media society. But it is extremely serious to equate, for example, false news and what it might be with, for example, incitement to ethnic groups, child pornography crimes and the like. There's protection in the Constitution. My supplementary question must be: what changes in freedom of the press and freedom of expression does the Minister envisage, and how does the Minister intend false news to be examined and assessed?
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-190	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. Here it is important not to mix apples with pears. I do not propose any changes to our constitutions, and the government will not do so. That discussion is not even relevant. On the other hand, there is an up-to-date discussion about strengthening journalism in our country and teaching young people media and information literacy, so that we can sort false news from true news. Then it is important with journalism and responsible publisher. So there are two completely different discussions, one of which is not even relevant. I'm glad I had to make that clear.
i-9LhM7R9G1icrqCuderBxCu	Mr President, I would like to Home Secretary! Last Monday, over 1,000 people in Malmö demonstrated against violence in general and the murder of 16-year-old Ahmed Obaid, who wanted to become a doctor, in particular. On December 8, Rami Amin, recently graduated dentist, was murdered. None of them had anything to do with organized crime, according to police and relatives. It is hard to imagine the grief parents experience when burying their children. Sweden cannot and should not tolerate the murder of innocent children and young people. Security must also be guaranteed in immigrant-rich areas.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-194	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Jamal-El-Haj for the question. Of course I agree with that. We must do our utmost both to prevent these kinds of events and to ensure that the perpetrators are put behind bars. This is why we have chosen to invest more than 2 billion extra on the police in the next few years, so that we have more police employees in Sweden than we have ever had before. We're spending more money on the police than we've ever done before. But we also need to redeploy police resources so that the socially vulnerable areas have more police, because that is where the problems are greatest. The citizens of our suburbs and socially vulnerable areas have exactly the same right to security as everyone else in society. It is therefore gratifying that we have now begun to increase the number of police officers and the visible presence of police officers in these areas. It is a development that must continue.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-196	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Home Affairs. Violence must be stopped. Assaults must be arrested. Prison sentences need to be tightened up. Weapons must be removed from the streets. There is a need for more police officers and more surveillance cameras in vulnerable areas. Above all, more resources are needed. These are some of the demands that were made during the manifestation in Malmö on Monday. Does the Minister of the Interior agree with these demands?
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-197	Mr President, I would like to The answer is yes. In several respects, we have already announced those measures. We're doubling the minimum sentence for serious gun crimes to two years. We are introducing a presumption of detention and compulsory detention for punishment, so that those who go out to town with sharp-charged weapons can see in front of them that they will not be home for at least two years. We go on with a doubling first and then a quadrupling of the penalties for hand grenades to push this away. We are also strengthening cooperation with the Balkan countries.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-198	Mr President, I would like to I was going to keep Anders Ygeman going. In Sweden's big cities, there are a lot of problems with unaccompanied youth living on the street. They do not have a residence permit in Sweden. They live outside society. In Nordstan in Gothenburg it has gone so far that it had to close the mall earlier than expected on New Year's Eve. According to the police, large groups of unaccompanied persons are carrying around the mall committing various violent crimes, robberies, threats, drug trafficking, thefts, harassment of girls, and more. Many people are afraid to stay there. At the beginning of January 2017, a huge group of over 100 people surrounded a police patrol. It was such a serious situation that the police had to call for reinforcements. This is totally unacceptable. Security must be restored. I wonder what measures the Minister of the Interior intends to take to bring back and secure security in Nordstan and elsewhere.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-201	Mr President, I would like to I thank Ellen Juntti for the question, although it was a bit of scattered showers and difficult slips in the question. Let me start with the problems in Nordstan. That's where the police have been acting. We are actually seeing how things are gradually getting better in Nordstan. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Gothenburg police for both seeing the problems and acting forcefully. We shall, of course, ensure that there are resources, police officers and legislation for strong action. In the case of the unaccompanied minors who have been refused their application and are to be expelled but where it is difficult to get the expulsion executed due to cooperation problems with the host country, we have created a number of new places to keep them locked up so that they cannot drift around the city.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-204	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. This is a very big problem. These young people are very provocative to the police. They deliberately get close, they laugh scornfully, they touch uniforms and things like that. I've been a cop myself for 30 years, and I know it wasn't like that before. It's gotten a lot worse. What measures, in addition to those mentioned by the Minister, will be taken to ensure that these young people can be sent home, such as withdrawing assistance, as apparently Finland does?
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-205	Mr President, I would like to We are not in a worse position to send them home than Finland or any other European country. On the contrary, the efforts made by the government have enabled us now to have a good dialogue with most of these countries. We have returned people to Algeria, we have returned people to Tunisia and we have also returned people to Morocco.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-206	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for allowing us to ask our questions, although I am not allowed to ask my brilliant supplementary question to EU Minister Ann Linde. Cohesion policy is the EU's most important investment tool for creating growth and jobs locally and regionally in Europe. It is implemented through different Structural and Investment Funds. Discussions are currently under way on the future of cohesion policy after 2020. By January 2018, the Commission shall submit proposals for the financial framework. But it is not only how big the framework will be, but also how the policy is designed that is hugely important for Sweden's municipalities and regions. That is why I ask the Minister how the government acts on this issue and what are the main priorities of the government in the discussions on future cohesion policy.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-209	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Åsa Eriksson, for the question! This is a very important issue. Cohesion policy currently accounts for about one third of the EU budget. The possibility of continuing operations will be influenced by the size of the entire budget and the impact that Brexit will have on the budget. The Government Office has begun work on the priorities that will form the basis for the Swedish approach to future cohesion policy. So far, we have mainly drawn conclusions on the operation of the current period and looked at the conclusions we can draw from the evaluation of the previous period. It is primarily about the areas and types of actions that work well. In Sweden, the efforts have contributed to better innovative environments that create the conditions for a competitive business environment in all regions. With regard to the process, the Commission is expected to present a proposal for targeting post 2020 in the autumn. Then there are the long-term priorities.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-214	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Culture Alice Bah Kuhnke. It's about children's reading. I know that the government is investing in children's reading, and we all agree that it is extremely important. It is important when children are young, because it is then that language and cultural identity develop. My question to the Minister for Culture is about national minorities and the children who are there. For a number of years, we have had a law that gives Finnish children and children who speak Meänkieli or Sami the right to preschool in their mother tongue, in whole or in part. These rights are stronger in the areas of administration. My question is this: what does the Minister intend to do in order to give children with the said minority languages real opportunities for education in municipalities which are not currently part of an administrative area? Sweden is committed there.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-218	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, and I understood the continuation. We have administrative areas in Sweden where there are additional rights, and there should be opportunities. Right now, we're investigating the administrative areas. It has turned out that there is too much difference between them, and that is not acceptable in our country. On the other hand, there is basic protection. It should apply everywhere, all the time, and to everyone. But that's where we're going. Sweden has been receiving criticism for many years in the Council of Europe and various UN agencies, and we need to tighten up. Therefore, the Ministry of Culture has broken the wall between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education for the first time in at least eight years. During the bourgeois government they hardly spoke to each other. We now have an inter-departmental group between the Department of Culture and the Department of Education's officials working to see: What do we have to do in several other areas that are not currently covered by activities? We will deliver politics and make a difference.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-224	Mr President, I would like to At the end of the autumn I visited about ten citizen, assembly and dialogue meetings regarding criminality and shootings in Järva in northwest Stockholm. Many experience frustration and sadness over a development where too many young people have fallen into destructiveness. At the meetings, citizens and local actors have fortunately met and found ways to cooperate and cooperate. What comes up constantly is the need for labour market intervention for young people. Although reducing unemployment is one of the government's top priority labour market policy challenges, there are many young people who do not work or study. In Rinkeby – Kista they were more than 802 young. Currently 62% attend an introductory programme or have other activities, but the remaining 264 young people are subject to continued outreach.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-228	Mr President, I would like to Mr Redar raises an extremely important issue. The first thing the government did when it took office was to establish close cooperation between Arbetsförmedlingen and the municipalities. I travelled around myself and met almost all the political leaders in Sweden's municipalities just to know that when it comes to those young people who have the greatest difficulties and are most likely to end up in unemployment, and perhaps even worse in crime or social problems, you have to cooperate and work outreach. The work is now basically in progress in all the municipalities of the country together with the Swedish Public Employment Service. We can see that although we are actively working for more and more unemployed young people to be enrolled in the Employment Service, fewer and fewer young people are enrolled. This means that we will reach the important promise of the government not to leave a single young person unemployed for more than 90 days at most before he or she has a job, education or a sensible effort. This is one of the most important future issues for Sweden.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-233	Mr President, I would like to My question is to the Minister for European Affairs. The fundamental values of democracy, openness and international cooperation that have been the conceptual base in the EU are under threat. The developments in Hungary in recent years are moving towards what is increasingly similar to a one-party state. The Polish Government has pushed through decisions that appear to be mere copies of that policy. How does the Minister of the European Union view this development in Europe?
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-235	Mr President, I would like to I thank the honourable Member for the question. This is a very worrying development in the European Union. The values that are fundamental – freedom, human rights, democracy and the rule of law – form the basis for well-functioning cooperation within the Union and for us to be able to trust each other's legal systems. Respect by the Member States is a prerequisite for us to be able to act with credibility for democracy and human rights outside the EU. It is therefore very important for both Hungary and Poland to listen to the criticisms already made by the Commission, the Council of Europe, the UN and various civil society organisations and to follow the recommendations made by the Venice Commission and in the case of Poland also by the European Commission. Each Member State is obliged to comply with, but also to promote, the fundamental values of the EU. They must continue to do so in the future.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-240	Mr President, I would like to I want to ask Ann Linde my question. We have about 100 000 Swedes living in the UK. Now they are witnessing xenophobia and discrimination to which they are subjected after the Brexit vote. My question is, How can we help these people? It is about the time until Brexit, i.e. until the UK leaves the EU. This applies to equal treatment, and we must not discriminate against Swedish citizens who are in the UK. But that also applies after that date. How can we help those on the ground and hopefully also ensure that young people can continue to go there in the future? It is very popular, and this exchange is good for both countries and for the whole of Europe. Ultimately, this is about basic values in EU – cooperation, free trade and the exchange of goods, people and services – and how we can secure them in the future.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-242	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the question, Hillevi Larsson! I have to say that this is a problem that I did not really know about before I visited London on Monday. At that time I met several young people, but also entrepreneurs, small businesses and others, who told me that they are being harassed. This applies to verbal ones, but also to physical harassment. They say to our Swedish young people and others: Go home! We don't want you here anymore! This touched me quite strongly, and I raised the issue with the Brexit Minister, David Davis. He took this seriously and said: We cannot accept this in our country. He also urged the embassy to report if more such reports would come. The Embassy also takes this seriously and now, together with the Swedish Church, organises a special information day for everyone when you can come and ask questions about what you can do and so on. I fully agree with Hillevi Larsson that cooperation between our countries should continue.
i-fd47764eb33d16ca-245	I would like to thank the Minister and the Members involved for participating in this Question Time.
