i-7492349ed945fa7b-4	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for a rejection of the bill. In politics, kindness isn't always nice. The Swedish debate is almost always based on the fact that it is nice to say yes to more generous rules or allowances. It could be about health insurance. It's nice to let people get sick without clear rules and requirements. That they then risk living their lives in isolation or face premature death is not mentioned. It could be about school. It's nice not to make demands on students. That they then do not get the conditions they really should be allowed to do so is not mentioned. This may be the case for people in need of protection. The reasons for protection can be so relaxed and wide that fewer people understand how important it is to actually be able to provide people with protection. The lack of that understanding does not improve the chances of becoming part of our society. At the same time, we get less money for other things, such as school, health care and care. It's not mentioned either. This proposal is based on what can be perceived as fair and kind. I don't think it is. There is a risk of having many negative effects. That's why we're calling for a rejection of the bill. One of the reasons why Sweden was approaching a more normal EU level in terms of residence permit rules was to reduce so-called pull factors, i.e. things that cause people to go specifically to Sweden. It has not only to do with how many Sweden wants or can receive, but it also increases the conditions for a more even and shared responsibility between the EU Member States. Mr President, I would like to This government proposal will definitely be a reason for many not to seek asylum in the first safe country they come to, but they will have the compass set for Sweden. The right to protection when you need it is important. Let us not, therefore, involve reasons, in this case studies, which have nothing to do with protection aspects. As I said, this proposal will mean that more people will want to go to Sweden. It will naturally increase the pressure on the Migration Agency, with longer processing times as a result. It is processing times that affect those who really need protection. More people will be in uncertainty for a long time. It's evil. A fundamental part of this proposal is for principals and teachers to assess the likelihood that the individual's studies will be successful. It's hard, not just clean, actually. The outcome of the assessment will also be the decisive part of the decision whether or not to allow the person to stay. We Moderates believe that it is wrong to put our teachers in that situation. Mr President, I would like to For people to succeed in their studies, these need to be done in a calm and secure environment. It is important that the relationship between teacher and student is safe and stable. That security and stability will be difficult to achieve when the student knows that the teacher has the key to whether to stay or not. Students will have problems with double vision. When they look at their teacher, they see both the teacher and the Migration Agency. This does not lead to good study results. Mr President, I would like to It is not only I, who are in opposition, who think that the proposal is not very successful. Of the consultation bodies, who in the political world know a little more than we do in politics, among other things, the Administrative Court of Appeal in Stockholm is saying that it is the protection of the person in need who should be the basis for staying in Sweden, regardless of whether he is studying or not. The Law Council says that it is a very complex regulation. Many consultation bodies have also stated that the constitutional changes are difficult to access and can lead to difficulties in application and affect legal certainty. These include the Administrative Court of Appeal in Stockholm, the Administrative Court in Stockholm, the Administrative Court in Gothenburg, the Finnish Immigration Service and the Swedish Bar Association. It is therefore a question of bodies which are well acquainted with the acquis. ..................................................... That's what the law council says. And I agree.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-19	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by agreeing, in principle, with everything that Mikael Cederbratt has just said. In the bill that we are debating, the Government proposes legislative changes aimed at making it possible to obtain a residence permit to study at upper secondary level in Sweden. The Swedish Democrats do not agree that this should be possible. We also ask for the proposal to be rejected by requesting the approval of reservation 1. There are several reasons why the bill is bad. We can start with why it is put forward at all. It is a consequence of the fact that the parties that have been in power in this House have been pursuing a policy that has not been sustainable for a long time. When we finally reached the breaking point and the government felt compelled to act, legislation was rushed forward that was not complete, had gaps and holes. It is important to emphasise this. Even then, the government announced that it would close the gaps, but unfortunately also that it would do so in this very wrong way. The gaps that I am talking about, and which the government wants to address, are the fact that the temporary legislation also allows people who get a job to obtain a permanent residence permit. Transferring the basis of the residence permit from asylum grounds to having a job. And then it becomes a permanent residence permit. This leads to a risk that people choose to take the first job instead of training and reaching higher skills, reaching their full potential. However, the solution to this cannot be that Sweden will suddenly offer permanent residence permits to all those who have started upper secondary education in Sweden. A few years ago it was realised that it was unreasonable for Sweden to offer education to virtually anyone in the world who makes it to our country. Then we introduced demands for exchange students to pay for higher education studies here. Instead, the solution is what the Swedish Democrats have been advocating for a long time and which, of course, we still support. Residence permits must always be temporary, and they must be bound to a specific reason. If the reason persists, there should certainly be the possibility to extend the residence permit in an orderly and regulated manner without any major difficulties. However, to give permanent residence permits in advance, to attract people to specific decisions through this possibility, is not sustainable in the long term. Sweden cannot be the whole world's school, in this particular case. With these changes in the rules, the incentives for those who do not have asylum grounds to seek Sweden still increase. As long as you have time to start upper secondary education during the time you are here – and that time is long, given the burden of the Migration Agency, and if you get into the systems a little too early anyway – it doesn't matter if you then have asylum reasons or not. You're supposed to stay. The Administrative Court of Appeal points out that this is unclear and complex legislation in many ways. It is already unclear legislation, and it is becoming even more complicated. The Swedish Association of School Leaders points out that in practice this means that a great deal of responsibility is passed on to teachers and vice-chancellors, who are the ones who will decide whether a student actually participates in studies or not and can stay or not. It is a completely unreasonable burden for them, and it is a completely unreasonable way that Sweden's migration policy should be governed by people who actually have the task of training. As I said, this proposal is aimed at individuals. I cannot stress enough that every person who has stayed here long enough, even if an early rejection decision has been issued which, because of the rules that exist, has not been implemented, will therefore be able to be granted a permanent residence permit with this proposal. Mr President, I would like to That is a very bad proposal. It is a proposal that undermines the right of asylum by shifting the possibility of obtaining a residence permit to people who deliberately abuse the possibility of seeking asylum in order to get to our country. It is a proposal that attracts people without asylum grounds to come to Sweden. It comes at the same time as reports of increased migratory flows to Italy again, migratory flows which have been shown to consist of only 3% asylum refugees. The rest has other reasons. Some have protection needs, but the vast majority are economic migrants. I am afraid of what this figure will look like for Sweden with this proposal.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-31	Mr President, I would like to We can call him Ali. Ali liked to draw and paint and play football. For more than two months of his life, he took his own life. He was 17 years old. Ali is not alone. He is one of the children we are talking about today. If you talk to the League of Ensamkommande, which organizes many of these children, they tell you that six unaccompanied persons have taken their lives in the last six months. They're kids who struggled with math homework. Maybe they were in love, and maybe they were thinking about the future. Many others, besides these sex, have tried to kill themselves, have serious self - injury behaviors, or are plagued by anxiety and depression. When the government introduced the temporary law, it was said that the law would bring fewer people in need of protection to come here. Family fragmentation, temporary residence permits and the abolition of protection grounds for humanitarian reasons would act as a deterrent. All of this puts fear in people and even in the people who are here. It affects their lives. That's what we're seeing in unaccompanied people today. So the proposal we are discussing here today is about alleviating some of the many and difficult consequences of the temporary law. There is insufficient relief in terms of a very complex piece of legislation. But it is a relief and a step in the right direction. That is why the Left Party supports the proposal. We support all the proposals that go in the right direction. We welcome this. At the same time, we have several suggestions on how this could be further improved and several proposals on what we think should be done instead, to deal with the real and major problems that we have with refugee policy. The need for the proposals put forward by the government is entirely created by the temporary law. The temporary law also creates a lot of other problems that are not addressed by the proposals we are talking about today. For the groups most affected by the proposal – children and young asylum seekers, and in particular unaccompanied minors – growing problems with mental illness have been very evident in recent times. These terrible consequences of decisions taken in this House are only partially addressed by the Government's proposals. But it is also not the government's intention to address these very consequences. In the debate, however, it has sometimes sounded like this proposal will mean that all asylum seekers studying in high school will be granted a residence permit. Single, good men and teachers have turned to us in the belief that this proposal will lead to everything going well. But that is not the case. I do not know whether it is the Moderates' criticism of the proposal that has made it appear to be an even better proposal than it really is; I cannot say that. However, when legislative proposals are misunderstood in this way by those directly affected by them, it is serious. Mr President, I would like to It is a very complex proposal. The Law Council and a wide range of referrals – the Migration Agency, the Administrative Court of Appeal in Stockholm, the Administrative Court in Gothenburg and Stockholm and the Swedish Bar Association – have pointed this out. If those who are supposed to apply the legislation, judge according to the law and take action on the basis of the law think it is complex, there are obvious risks that legal certainty will be jeopardised. It will also be difficult for those seeking asylum in Sweden to understand the conditions for obtaining a residence permit and to understand the length of the permits that will apply. The uncertainty about the possibility of staying in Sweden is in many cases the cause of some of the mental illness that exists among many unaccompanied minors. In some cases, the bill will provide more security. However, in other cases it will create more anxiety and confusion and may thus increase the risk of mental illness. The proposal is not enough. This proposal does not address the fundamental problems that exist within the Swedish asylum acquis, and it creates many problems and difficulties through its complexity. It cannot be ignored that the problems and other even more serious problems which the Government's proposal intends to address are created by the temporary law. It's really obvious. The best measure that the government can propose is the withdrawal of the temporary law as soon as possible. It is the simplest and most effective way to address the major and serious problems that we see. Mr President, I would like to Through the Temporary Act, temporary residence permits became the general rule for asylum seekers in Sweden. The Left Party is generally opposed to temporary residence permits, as they create great suffering, anxiety and uncertainty for asylum seekers who do not know what awaits them in the future. Time-limited residence permits also hinder the establishment in society of those who come to Sweden fleeing war and oppression. Moreover, migration research shows something quite interesting, but it is a rather obvious paradox, namely that people with permanent residence permits are more likely to return than those who have temporary residence permits. Security is simply a good basis for living one's life. The proposal implies different lengths of residence permits depending on a variety of factors, including the type of studies carried out and when the application for a residence permit was registered. Although the different lengths of permits are justified, there is no detailed analysis of them. The consequences they have and the conditions for completing the studies within the given time period have not been investigated by the government. Particularly problematic are the length of the permits for students on the introduction programmes and the permits to establish themselves on the labour market after completing their studies. The 13 months, with the possibility of a 13-month extension, which will apply to introductory programme studies, will be insufficient for many to qualify for a national programme. An unrealistic deadline such as this risks creating increased stress and anxiety and making it more difficult to succeed in studies. The principle that work now for many is the only way to permanent residence permit in Sweden was also established by the Temporary Act. The Left Party is very critical of this change of course, which means that work is more important than the need for protection for the asylum seeker's right to stay in Sweden and be reunited with his family. It is a very strange order that puts profitability over humanism. Putting so much emphasis on work as a basis for staying in Sweden also means a shift in power to the employer's advantage. As far as labour migration is concerned, we have seen in the past what it means for everyone in the labour market. We believe that this can have far-reaching consequences and that it opens the way for the exploitation of asylum seekers in the labour market. This proposal also transfers this system to the education system. Anyone who does his studies can stay. Those who do not pass their studies do not meet the requirements to stay in Sweden either. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, asylum seekers can start studying in high school from the age of 16. The Government's proposal excludes all asylum seekers between the ages of 16 and 17 from the possibility of an extended residence permit based on upper secondary school studies solely because of their age. This should be seen as discrimination against these children in accordance with Article 2 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and Article 21 of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. Several consultation bodies criticise the age limit, and the government replies that a lower age limit could pose a risk of family fragmentation, since 16-year-old children would be granted a longer permit than their parents. However, if the government really wants to combat family fragmentation, I have a very good proposal, namely to review the temporary law. It has severely limited family reunification and created family fragmentation. Before such a change is announced, this argument does not become very credible. The Left Party, like the Ombudsman for Children, proposes that the age limit be reduced to 16 years. Family fragmentation can be counteracted and the best interests of the child maintained without the risk of discrimination against 16-year-olds, and if the parents receive a shorter residence permit than the child, they can receive a residence permit valid until the child is 18 years of age. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party does not normally believe that amnesty is the best way to create a legally secure and stable migration policy, but the situation is indeed acute. The Finnish Immigration Service's processing times for unaccompanied minors are record-long. In 2015, the average duration of proceedings was 195 days, and today it is 466 days. The long wait for a very uncertain end creates great anxiety and anxiety. When we see the increase in suicide and self-harm among unaccompanied minors, while there is not really a scientific and legally certain age assessment in place, we are in a situation that requires extraordinary measures. The Left Party believes that an amnesty should be introduced for all unaccompanied minors who have been in Sweden for more than a year. We would have liked to have put an amnesty proposal to the vote today, but it was considered to fall outside the scope of the parliamentary order. However, we are not alone. More than 20 000 people have signed the appeal for amnesty from the movement We cannot stand it. It is a movement consisting of good men, social workers, teachers, neighbours and classmates – those who in their everyday lives meet the unaccompanied children and see the consequences of today's politics. The organisations that have joined the demands include trade unions that organise those who, in their work, have to comfort, call an ambulance and help children who have lost their will to live and move on. These include the National Federation of Teachers and the SSR. In addition, study associations, aid organisations, the asylum movement and many more have supported the demands. The Left Party is the only party in this House that has so far supported the appeal, but several of the youth federations and districts of different parties have actually done so. Perhaps those who are out in the country and see the seriousness of today's situation can also help you to understand. You have actually understood this before; thanks to the 2005 Flyktingamnesti campaign, 17 000 people were granted a residence permit in Sweden. The demands of the campaign were then, apart from the Left Party, the Green Party and the Center Party as well as the People's Party and the Christian Democrats. I hope you still know and understand what you knew then. I wonder when you're going to stand up to the demands of We can't stand it. I, like many of you, meet almost every week unaccompanied ones who tell of their fear and anxiety. They realise that, unfortunately, this proposal will not cover them – because they do not qualify, because they have turned 18 or because they have been affected by arbitrary and legally insecure old-age write-ups. I know the rest of you do, too, and I wonder what you're saying to them. What do you say to a person who is to be sent to a country hen may never have been in, without networks and without security? What do you say to the many who fight for the unaccompanied in We cannot bear? What do you say to those who comfort the children at night and call the ambulance when someone cut themselves – or at worst took their own life? What do you say to those who work at the BUP and sit awake at suicidal youths? I reply that I am fighting to tear up the temporary law and for an amnesty and the opportunity for these children and young people to finally start their lives in safety. But what do you say? With this, Mr President, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 2. I apologise for exceeding my speaking time.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-54	Mr President, I would like to I can start by answering the questions. I say that I am fighting for legislation and a system that means that the person never had to flee half the world and risk his life, but instead had been helped as early as possible. I reacted to many things in Christina Höj Larsen's speech, but there is one thing I intend to raise. Christina Höj Larsen said that the Left Party generally does not think amnesty is a good approach. At the same time, it represents the desire to return to the previous policy that actually led to the situation we have today. My question is therefore: how often does the Left Party think that, although it is actually against amnesties, it should grant amnesties because it conducts a policy that creates situations where the Left Party considers amnesty to be the only possible way out?
i-7492349ed945fa7b-56	Mr President, I would like to What has created the situation that is currently causing children across the country to cut themselves, kill themselves and fail to understand how to go on with their lives – a situation that makes them ask how to get by in a country they have never been in – is above all the temporary law. We were very strongly against it, and we were clear about it. We were also clear that the implementation of the temporary law will have such consequences. At the same time, we have had a situation where age assessments have not been in place. This means that we have not had a legally certain way of making age assessments, and so does Paula Bieler. We have seen a comprehensive age list of children with only boy-gating age. It is not a legal way to treat children and young people. In such a unique situation, we always put man first. I understand that it may be a little new thought for Paula Bieler, but to me it's a pretty obvious thought. That's why we do it. In situations where we see that people are being cramped and mistreated, we will always be on people's side. It's as simple as that.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-59	Mr President, I would like to I can start by giving Christina Höj Larsen a tip: If you want to seem serious you might realize that we see different solutions but that it does not mean that we do not see the same problems and that we do not see other people as people and want to help them. I think it is completely unnecessary to drop to such a level. I believe that the policy of the Left Party harms more than it does any good, but I would never dream of accusing left-wing parties of doing so with malice and purpose. What is the basis for the situation we have today? In fact, it is not the current legislation in Sweden, but rather the legislation we have had in the past. The priorities that we and other countries have been setting in our situation for too long have created a situation in which people who do not have asylum reasons do not get asylum as soon as possible. It is a situation in which we do not require those who can actually offer a safe port to do so. Instead, we have created a system that creates incentives for people to go to other countries and hides economic migration under the cover of the fact that it is called asylum. This is perfectly understandable. There are incredible welfare gaps worldwide, and it is extremely tragic. I fully understand those who want to go to our country, for example, because they have a terrible situation where they live at the moment. However, there is nothing to protect them with the greatest need. My question, a little modified, is: if the Left Party believes that the legislation we have now means that we need to give amnesty to everyone who is in this country, and if the answer is that they would actually have been granted a residence permit right from the start, does the Left Party mean that we should have a totally out of control reception in Sweden? Is that correct?
i-7492349ed945fa7b-63	Mr President, I would like to No, it's all wrong. There were a number of errors in what Paula Bieler just said. What we have supported is the obvious demand that comes from the movement of people who actually work with these children and young people every day. This is about an amnesty for children who have been in this country for more than a year. So this is not the case for everyone; it is a specific group that we see for obvious reasons has gone very badly. It is a unique situation, and it is important that we do something. It goes without saying that the world as a whole must do better when it comes to the reception of refugees. We know that people come from Lebanon and Libya, for example, and we know that people are still in Syria. One reason why young unaccompanied minors come from Iran is that they have long been refugees in Iran and have been completely unrighted there. It is clear that more needs to be done, but what Paula Bieler proposes is that we should continue to let it go – that we should continue to leave people in Libya, in Lebanon and so on – and that is not something I am doing. For me, it is not the world that gets better by more people doing wrong, but more people need to do the right thing, and that is not the policy that Paula Bieler or the Swedish Democrats represent. Instead, their policy is to constantly try to push people away. If a house is on fire, people will be allowed to stay in place and get help there. That is a completely incomprehensible argument which I cannot support. When people get hurt, it is our duty in this House to do something about it, and amnesty is one way of doing this.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-69	Mr President, I would like to This proposal provides for a four-year extension of residence permits for upper secondary school studies. First of all, I would like to say that the Liberals are a constructive party on migration issues. We have participated in the agreement on migration policy and are open to discussing a variety of issues. We also believe that we need to be prepared to resolve the refugee crisis as a matter of fact, which means that everyone in this House needs to make an offer in various ways. The problem with this bill, Mr President, is that it is so poorly prepared, so legally insecure, so misthinking and so messy that it is completely impossible for us liberals to support it. We are in a situation where we are forced to call for rejection of this proposal, because the proposal is simply too bad. I can sum up our criticism on a number of points. Firstly, asylum is sought because of the need for protection. Asylum is sought for protection. What the Swedish government wants with this proposal is to apply for asylum to study at upper secondary school in Sweden – upper secondary school, which is also a voluntary school form. This proposal means that anyone fleeing Bashar al-Assad's cyanide bombs in Syria is granted a 13-month residence permit. Those who have come to Sweden but have been rejected and are to be expelled from here, because the person does not have protection reasons, can stay for four years to study in high school. It is not reasonable to introduce in this way the idea that upper secondary school studies are the basis for obtaining a residence permit. The second point is that this means that no distinction is made between persons who are to be expelled and persons who have a residence permit and are to be allowed to stay. This means that persons who have received a judgment on expulsion who have gained legal force but whose enforcement has been postponed will be allowed to stay in Sweden. This blurs the line between staying and not staying, which in our opinion is not reasonable. Point three is probably the most central objection that we from the Liberals have against this bill. In Sweden, the Migration Agency is the responsible authority. It is the Finnish Immigration Service that decides whether a person can stay in Sweden or not. But with this proposal, this responsibility is passed on to principals in the Swedish school. What this proposal means is that a person who is studying in high school – probably a guy, maybe 18 – 19 years old – can stay for four years. But what happens after these four years? Well, the legal amendment now proposed means that the person, if he/she conducts his/her studies, should be granted a six-month extension of his/her residence permit in order to apply for a job. Try to understand that you are a principal of a Swedish school. You have an unaccompanied student who doesn't do his studies and doesn't go to classes and other things. What's the headmaster doing at that point? What does the principal do when good men and activists start calling, when people in different ways mobilize and when local newspapers call and say that the person will be expelled if you don't sign? A burden is placed by our authorities on individual school leaders in Sweden and on other people who are close to these boys – on social secretaries, administrators and other people who are in different ways around them. You move the responsibility. It is completely unreasonable for Vice-Chancellors, through a signature, to decide in practice whether the person is allowed to stay in Sweden or not. This presents them with ethical dilemmas and places a huge burden on people in the welfare sector, and that is not reasonable. Fourthly, Mr President, a person is allowed to extend a residence permit for four years and then, if he or she is able to complete his or her studies, he or she will be allowed to stay for another six months, on condition that he or she stays for the rest of his or her life if he or she finds a job. However, if you do not find a job, you should go back to Iran or Afghanistan or whatever country it may be. Put yourself in that position! We imagine that we're a guy from 20 to 22 years old. We have stayed here for four years and passed our studies, but our studies are in practice high school introduction. We don't have a university degree, and we don't have enough high school grades to get into the university. We've got six months. If, in these six months, we find a job, we stay the rest of our lives, but if we don't find a job, we're out. This opens the door for people to become completely desperate to find a job in the six months. It opens the door to bogus employment, corruption and rogue employers. This opens the door to a situation where these people float between staying and not being allowed to stay in Sweden, and it all depends on whether you manage to find a person who in different ways can arrange a job. Mr President, I would like to The reason for this has been mentioned in previous speeches. This is because the government persisted in pushing through such short temporary residence permits in Sweden that it has hacked up the entire integration. That is the background to this. Temporary legislation has been introduced with short-term residence permits, and then you cannot really stand up for that legislation. When you see these different problems, you want to patch and fix, fix, fix and do, and thereby create legislation that is legally insecure. We will now have refugee families in Sweden where as a result children can have different lengths of residence permit. Sixthly, Mr President, the other day there was a proposal from the Green Party that you should not have to get a job to stay, but should be enough with subsidised employment. The combination of these two proposals – what is now on the table of Parliament and what the Green Party has proposed – would be totally devastating, as I see it. This combination would open up a labour market using new arrivals in Sweden, and all of us who have a certain social eye and an idea of order and order in the labour market should certainly not support this. What do the Liberals think? We are a party that thinks it is very important to encourage people to go to school. We're in no way negative to going to school-- we think it's important. We want school duty. We want more education in Sweden – we have focused a lot on education. During the time you apply for asylum in Sweden you have the right to go to school, which means that this is provided. However, with the legislation in place in Sweden today, not all people who are here on temporary residence permits or who are seeking asylum will be allowed to stay. We believe that this time should therefore be used to prepare people in a flexible way, so that these young people can have knowledge or tools that they can also use in other countries if they are forced to leave Sweden. This means that civil society and study associations need to play a role, but what the government does is to fit everyone into the upper secondary school structure. People will therefore not have the qualifications that will enable them to get a job in another country if they need to leave Sweden. In total, Mr President, I would like to call for the proposal to be rejected and for reservation 1.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-92	Mr President, I would like to There is a humanitarian crisis in the world. War, oppression, Islamist terror groups and persecution of ethnic and religious groups make millions of people run away. According to the online newspaper Europaportalen yesterday, Sweden has received the most asylum applications per capita in Europe, and that is a good thing. However, more countries need to shoulder their responsibilities in the EU in order for more and more people to be able to get the protection they need. The reception of nearly 163 000 asylum seekers in 2015, of which about 35 000 minors without guardians, has made very great demands on the whole of society. It would have been completely impossible to cope without all the fellows who opened their homes and employees out in municipalities and at authorities who worked harder than usual to cope with the difficult task. The bill that the government has now put on the table of the Riksdag, and on which we are today to discuss and make decisions, we nevertheless believe is a consequence of the ill-prepared temporary restrictive migration legislation that the government announced in November 2015 and pushed through in the Riksdag in June 2016. It is necessary now to come back with additions, because we have seen unreasonable effects of the temporary law. In spite of significant shortcomings in the proposal, the majority of referral bodies have endorsed the amendments to the Temporary Act. However, it is clear from the referral that it is not because the proposals are considered to be good, but because it would be worse not to make any changes at all. They believe that the law will become even more complex, and we agree with that. Yet we see a need to partially patch and fix the system and will therefore let through the bill. Mr President, I would like to To have to break up and go to another country to seek protection or to try to make a better future possible is a big decision. Especially difficult must it be for lonely children to take that step. Leaving home and family behind to seek asylum in a new country is something that no child should have to experience. Yet that is exactly what thousands of unaccompanied people have been through. Although the number of new applications for asylum so far this year and last year has been considerably lower than the previous years, there is still a lot of hard work to be done both in the asylum process and for those granted a residence permit to be well integrated into our common society. Everyone who has contributed and contributes to the needs of asylum seekers and newcomers must be given reasonable opportunities to do their part. Although the government has clarified in some parts the division of responsibilities and the intentions regarding the application of the current proposals, considerable ambiguities remain, which are about excessive demands that may be placed on both social secretaries and teachers and other school staff when the assessments of these professions in their professional practice in the direct sense may determine a young person's possibility of obtaining an extension of his residence permit. The Christian Democrats believe that it is reasonable that temporary residence permits can and should be used as a general rule, and the need for change and adaptation to other EU countries was something that Göran Hägglund joined in an article already in autumn 2014. This may be a general rule for all categories of protection other than quota refugees. However, it is our view that all temporary residence permits should be valid for three years. If the need for protection persists for a person who has had a temporary residence permit of less than three years, the residence permit should be permanent. In the temporary law introduced by the government, temporary residence permits are only 13 months. It has completely different consequences from what three-year residence permits would have meant. With three-year permits in place and with the right to a permanent residence permit, if the reasons for protection persist, significant parts of those who have started upper secondary education could have completed it. In the Temporary Act, the Government has limited the possibility of granting residence permits to persons who have been established in the labour market and who have reached the age of 25. The Christian Democrats rejected this age limit and advocated setting the limit instead at 21 years. This, too, would have meant that many of the young people whom the government now feels obliged to find the special solution for would already have had the opportunity to obtain a residence permit if our proposal had been approved. The lower age limit of the legislative proposal is also problematic, partly from a child's perspective, partly because it poses new difficulties in the application and the possibility of maintaining legal certainty. The government's justification for safeguarding family unity is contradicted by the fact that the temporary law severely restricts the possibility of family reunification. The latter is something else that we Christian Democrats have opposed. We continue to believe that the right to family reunification should apply to those who have a temporary residence permit and that this possibility should be introduced as soon as possible. Mr President, I would like to With the Christian Democrats' policy, there would have been fewer revisions and less burden on the Migration Agency, which would have allowed for shorter processing times. With the temporary law that we have today, the government has removed the possibility of granting a residence permit on the grounds of particularly distressing circumstances for adults and particularly distressing circumstances for children. This means that the basis for residence permits no longer exists for some of the most vulnerable of the people who are here now. The fact that the government is now trying to deal with this, with the proposed amendments to the temporary law, shows how wrong it was to remove these grounds. All in all, we note that if the Christian Democrats' previous legislative proposals had been approved by the Riksdag, the Government would not have had to present paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Government's proposal. Mr President, I would like to As we write in our special opinion in the report, we believe that the Christian Democrats' proposals, which have previously been discussed in Parliament but have not been approved, should have been implemented. But now that we have the legislation we have, we believe that the conditions must be as good as possible for children and young people whose fate here and now rests on the laws in force. Despite shortcomings in the Government's proposal, the Christian Democrats will not stop the proposal today. So we are not rejecting the bill. On the other hand, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 4.
i-7vjteLEi8aoAxVPtLcjnmV	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the Social Security Committee's report. I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal and rejection of all reservations, which means that we support the Government's proposal for a law on residence permits for students at upper secondary level and thus changes in foreign law and consequential amendments to the Act on the Establishment of certain newly arrived immigrants. The proposal therefore makes proposals aimed at encouraging and enabling young people who have recently arrived to study at upper secondary level. It is proposed that those who have started education at upper secondary level and who are to be granted a temporary residence permit under the Temporary Act or because of obstacles to enforcement in the absence of an organised reception in their home country, should be able to obtain a residence permit with a longer period of validity, according to the Aliens Act. If the grounds for the permit have ceased, the foreigner should be able to obtain a residence permit for studies at upper secondary level in order to have the opportunity to continue his studies, i.e. complete upper secondary school education, simply. As I said, even those who have received or would otherwise have received a decision on expulsion with deferred execution because there is no organised reception in their home country will be able to obtain a residence permit for studies at upper secondary level. It shall be possible for a person who has received a longer or a granted residence permit for studies at upper secondary level to obtain a permanent residence permit on the basis of his or her own livelihood, even for a period after the duration of the temporary law. The legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force already in less than a month, i.e. on 1 June 2017. Mr President, I would like to The person must have turned 17 but not 25 years of age, study on a national programme in upper secondary school or upper secondary school or on a full-time basis on other equivalent education and must not previously have completed such education or equivalent foreign education. The period of validity shall be set at six months in addition to the remaining time of the course according to the individual study plan or, in the case of studies at folk high school, according to the corresponding planning document. The residence permit is therefore six months longer than the planned studies, which several have mentioned. A person who has completed his studies will thus have a period of time to establish himself or herself in the labour market. Where there are special reasons, a longer period of validity may be decided even if the applicant does not study full-time. In upper secondary school there are two kinds of programmes, introduction programmes and national programmes. Those who do not have the approved grades required for eligibility for a national programme are thus able to go to an introduction programme in order to obtain such eligibility. In principle, all newly arrived young people of upper secondary school age who start upper secondary school studies do so on an introduction programme. It is of great value to newcomers' entry into the labour market that after the introduction programmes they move to a national programme and then complete upper secondary education. We know that this applies generally to both young people and adults in Sweden when it comes to being able to get a job and establish themselves in the labour market. So it is not unique to new arrivals, it is the way it works. There is a marked difference in unemployment between those who have completed upper secondary education and those who have not completed upper secondary education. That is why the 25-year limit is so important and that you should complete upper secondary education. In addition, completion of upper secondary education for persons under 25 years of age will be a prerequisite for the granting of a permanent residence permit on the basis of subsistence. The regulation is intended to allow those under 25 years of age to complete upper secondary education and thus to be granted a permanent residence permit. It is important to create additional incentives for starting studies on a national programme. The starting point should therefore be to require studies on a national programme in order to be granted a longer residence permit. One should also have been able to take an introduction program before. However, in some cases it should be possible to obtain a residence permit for studies at upper secondary level also for studies on an introduction programme. You can even go two introductory programs and get granted twice 13 months. The fact that I have now tried to explain quite thoroughly – and yet it may seem complicated – what we are going to decide today is because there are many who are calling, as many have said in the speaker's chair. This applies to both young people, who are directly involved, and others, such as teachers, good men, employees at HVB homes and others. They wonder how it will work and what will apply. I know that many are following the proposal and what the decision will be here this afternoon. That is why it is important that we communicate it as well as possible. In today's debate, we will also listen to Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson, who will, of course, explain the meaning of the proposal and justify it. It will of course be a quick change for the Migration Agency as the proposal will enter into force on 1 June. We know that this proposal is well understood and read out, but we should be able to deal with it more or less directly. I think it is an extremely good suggestion that young people should be given the opportunity to obtain a residence permit for education and a good upper secondary school education and that after that they can get a job and make a living and stay in Sweden. I have a long experience of working as a teacher in high school, high school and komvux and know how important it is to learn – both to gain knowledge, skills and education and to be part of a community and a context and to do something meaningful. Mr President, I would like to I also know from my long commitment to women's and girls' shelters that one of the best ways for children and young people to move forward when they live or have lived with traumatic experiences is to go to school and to educate themselves. Studies have shown that it is even better than therapy. Schooling and education are the best thing for children and young people to move forward. That is why it is important for this proposal to go through today. It is a good and forward-looking proposal. I am pleased that several parties in addition to the government parties support the proposal. However, I had hoped that a few more parties would have considered backing the proposal, as this would give many young people the opportunity to get an education. It will be exciting to follow the vote this afternoon.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-128	Mr President, I would like to I have listened to the Social Democrats and understood that everything is fine in this legislation. It is a little strange that it only comes now and that it has not come before if it is so amazing. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish School Leaders' Association writes this in its referral: The Association is seriously concerned about the role that teachers and school leaders are expected to take in the process of granting residence permits. School leaders and teachers are in danger of facing very difficult ethical dilemmas. The Swedish National Agency for Education writes as follows: The Swedish National Agency for Education considers that the draft proposal for a residence permit for studies at upper secondary level in practice means that the head of the education may decide the time of residence permit. That is exactly what I made in my speech earlier. What the government wants is for Vice-Chancellors and not the Migration Agency to decide whether people can stay in Sweden or not. Have you given any thought to the consequences of this? Obviously, you have not listened to the serious criticism of the Swedish National Agency for Education and the Swedish Association of School Leaders. What do you say to Sweden's Vice-Chancellors, Carina Ohlsson? After all, it is their signature that will ultimately condemn whether people can stay in Sweden or not. Is that reasonable? Is it social democratic policy for principals to be deputy migration officers? It can't be, can it?
i-7492349ed945fa7b-133	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to the children who come to Sweden and seek asylum, where some are granted asylum and others are rejected, of course everyone in society is involved. I meet people who are involved in the everyday life of these children and young people on a daily basis. I myself chair a football club and meet the young people there. It is not quite simple because they do not always have this skill. The same is true in school, and therefore the possibility is given to double introduction programmes so that they can pass a national programme. It doesn't say what grades they're supposed to, but they're supposed to complete a national program. I think perhaps more than the Swedish School Leaders' Association that teachers and school leaders are professional. When it comes to assessing, motivating and informing, I believe that the profession will do very well. I believe that it is even more difficult to meet young people who are unable to pursue a programme in order for them to be rejected but still to go to school and be motivated. The Government's proposal gives children and young people a greater opportunity to complete their education in a good way.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-137	Mr President, I would like to I listened to Carina Ohlsson, and it's very much that she believes one, she believes the other. Think you do it in the church, in the mosque, in the synagogue or in the Hindi temple. What we do in Parliament is investigation, analysis and making sound proposals. We make laws here. You are now prepared to make a law that the Swedish School Leaders' Association estimates will lead to very difficult ethical dilemmas. The League is seriously concerned, it writes, for the role that teachers and school leaders are expected to take in the process of granting residence permits. The Swedish National Agency for Education states that it is estimated that the proposal means that the head of the education may decide the time for a residence permit. This is a radical change. Then Carina Ohlsson says she is the chairman of a football club, so she is a part of it. Then I can tell you that in the football club you decide whether Ibrahim should play leftback or midfielder. But here the Vice-Chancellors will decide whether Ibrahim can stay in Sweden or not. There's something else. One cannot turn itself down by saying that we have a civil society where everyone is involved around these boys. This is about specific people, principals, school leaders and others who will be subjected to tremendous pressure from good men, from staff in accommodations, from activists and others. Their decision will mean whether a person can stay in Sweden or not. Don't the Social Democrats understand that you can't put this kind of ethical burden on people who should be responsible for educational activities, that they should be some kind of deputy authority for the Migration Agency in Sweden? It should surely be reasonable that the Government Office, with all the calculators, investigators, lawyers and the entire Council of State Committee, concludes that one cannot place such a burden on Sweden's school leaders. I am surprised that the Social Democrats have thought no more than that.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-143	Mr President, I would like to All the epithet that Fredrik Malm tries to put on me I take with ease and leave behind me. Fredrik Malm himself asked me to describe ethical dilemmas, and they are not always factual. One cannot say exactly how it is going to be, but then there must be consideration. That's why I said that I believe that teachers and school leaders have a better professional ability than the school leaders believe. That's the question I answered. I didn't say I believe in another higher power. I believe in the proposal, that it is reasonable, balanced and will work. It is a pity that the Liberals do not have a balanced and good proposal to believe in. I mentioned other actors because they are involved. What happens in civil society means that the individual child and the individual youth are better able to cope with school outcomes. That is why I raised other actors than the school system. I believe in the proposal. I also think that the school will be able to do it well. That is why I myself, the Social Democrats and the government have come up with this proposal. We believe it, and it's analyzed and the fact-finding. It's gonna be okay. I had hoped more by Fredrik Malm, that there had been a better counter proposal that we could also look at.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-149	Mr President, I would like to Although I am opposed to the legislation, I can start by making such a proposal. You can have centralised examinations and link your residence permit to actual school results. At least a bit along the way where teachers are not burdened with this. Like Fredrik Malm, I am fascinated by Carina Ohlsson's reply, in which she simply refers to the work of the profession and ignores the fact that it imposes tasks that will have consequences. Whether they complete their professional mission or not, this is an extra burden on the profession. We have also highlighted this in our accompanying motion and in our criticism of the bill. But that is not why I asked for a reply, but to ask a very simple question. Does Carina Ohlsson share the assessment made by her party and the government that our systems in Sweden were so overloaded in autumn 2015 that it was necessary to introduce the temporary legislation?
i-7492349ed945fa7b-152	Mr President, I would like to It's nice that Paula Bieler is fascinated by me. I'll take that as a compliment. Since, as I said earlier, I have worked in the school system for many years, I understand that it will be an extra load. Of course I understand that. Now it is not the grades that should be assessed; it is that you complete the school or the education. So it is not the grades themselves that count. Of course you should look at it, just as you do when it comes to other young people. At upper secondary school you watch exactly when the students come to school. If they arrive four hours and four minutes late, they get rid of the student allowance. So there are other things that include all young people. Then I was asked if I agree that the situation was so strained that something had to be done about it. In what way the legislation would change, we had an enormous amount of discussion in the government parties. From the beginning I also had many discussions with Morgan Johansson to see what one could do. I find it difficult when, for example, family reunification was removed. We also looked at whether the number of quota refugees could be increased. But when we finally landed in a proposal, we Social Democrats supported it. We have also discussed this at a party congress, so it is well known.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-157	Mr President, I would like to From the answer I realize that I may take further discussions with Morgan Johansson. I have the impression that there is not a full consensus within the Social Democrats. I stand by the responsibility of teachers. No matter how you twist it and turn it around – believe me, I have studied as a high school teacher myself, so I have a little bit of idea about what's going on – says Carina Ohlsson that she trusts the profession to do its work. She rejects all the criticism of the teachers being placed on a personal burden by saying that she believes they will do their job anyway. She increases the burden even more by saying that teachers should not bear in mind that their assessment has consequences. The teachers' assessment determines whether a person can stay in Sweden or not. That is what I find so fascinating, that it is a question that clearly concerns whether the teachers and principals of the school should be forced to live with their judgements deciding whether a person can stay in Sweden or not, even though it is not linked to their education and profession. You twist it and say that the teachers should probably be able to do their job anyway. There are two completely different aspects to two completely different issues. Once again, I am fully aware that this legislation is not based on grades. That's one of the problems. What I said was that if you are to necessarily have this kind of legislation, you should at least link it to grades and have the tests corrected anonymously and centrally, so you get rid of the burden from the teachers.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-161	Mr President, I would like to Paula Bieler said it didn't seem like we were united, but we are. After the discussion on the proposal and the temporary legislation, we supported this. We have also discussed it at the Party Congress, and that is well known. Paula Bieler says that I reject the criticism and pretend that this does not have consequences for both high school teachers and school leaders. Of course I know it will. So I don't beat it at all and pretend nothing's going to happen. But what I said was that when I meet high school teachers today, they find it extremely difficult to know that students can quit immediately and not complete their program. In fact, I believe that this is more satisfying for the teachers. They know the students can stay on their high school program. They can motivate the individual student in a much better way if they know that he or she has the opportunity to remain – to complete his or her upper secondary school programme or to attend his or her introduction programme – than to say: In three weeks you may have to finish the upper secondary school programme. I believe that the ethical dilemmas that I was also asked about are a burden that can be dropped by the teachers when they know that the students can pursue their program and are not torn away from it. I believe in the proposal and that it will be better for both the individual student and the teaching teacher.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-165	Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased to be able to debate today the proposal put forward by the Government on the possibility of a residence permit for studies at upper secondary level. The proposal we are now debating and voting on this afternoon will have major consequences for newly arrived young people. People who would otherwise receive short temporary residence permits d and risk being rejected on the 18th anniversary will instead receive longer residence permits in order to complete upper secondary school and then establish themselves on the labour market. This gives them an opportunity to stay permanently. The temporary law that came into force last summer and which limits the possibility of obtaining a residence permit in Sweden makes the general rule temporary residence permits instead of permanent ones as before. However, the law does provide for the possibility of a permanent residence permit for persons who have employment on whom they can make a living. In order to avoid a situation in which this provision would create incentives for young people to drop out of high school in the hope of finding a job instead, the government proposed a limitation in the temporary law whereby a permanent residence permit may only be granted to a person who has not reached the age of 25 if he or she has completed a secondary education or equivalent. At the same time, the government promised to return to Parliament with a proposal encouraging young people to study at upper secondary level by granting them a longer residence permit in order to complete upper secondary school. After that, they could find a job and have the same permanent residence permit. It is this proposal that we are now debating. From the point of view of establishment, it is of great value that young newcomers undergo education at upper secondary level. Completed upper secondary education is in many cases a prerequisite for the establishment of newcomers in society. So there are strong reasons to encourage such training. Under the Temporary Act, an alternate person is granted a temporary residence permit valid for 13 months. Not knowing whether the residence permit will be extended, and therefore not knowing whether the studies started will be completed, may result in the newcomer abstaining from starting studies. The bill will increase security and make it easier for newly arrived children and young people to focus on their studies. I have to admit that the regulatory framework is a bit tricky, but I will try to explain what it will mean for different groups in practice. Those studying on a national programme already at the time of the first examination of the asylum application shall be granted a longer residence permit for upper secondary school studies. The period of validity of that permit will be six months in addition to the remaining time of the applicant's training according to his or her individual study plan. Not all newly arrived young people will meet the conditions for a longer residence permit at the time of the first examination. In order to ensure that those who have started their upper secondary school studies only after a residence permit has been granted are confident that they will be able to complete their studies, there will also be an opportunity to be granted a longer residence permit in connection with the examination of the extension of the permit. This applies even if the previous reasons for residence permits have ceased.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-173	Children and young people studying on an introduction programme are also included. For these, the first authorisation will be valid for 13 months. If the person is still studying an introduction programme at the end of the first authorisation, it shall be extended by a further 13 months. This applies even if the previous grounds for residence permit no longer apply. Thus, a youth usually has 26 months to get through the introduction programme and into a national programme. When the second permit of 13 months expires, the person must have started a national programme or equivalent in order for the upper secondary school residence permit to be granted. The period of validity of that permit will be six months in addition to the remaining time of the applicant's training according to his or her individual study plan. After studying, there is an opportunity to be granted a permanent residence permit for those who can support themselves. There is also the possibility of a start-up phase of six months after your studies when you can apply for a job. The legislative proposal is also particularly important for unaccompanied minors who do not have an orderly reception in their home country. The reason for this is that, in a legal position, the Migration Agency has interpreted the Aliens Act, which means that those who do not have an arranged reception in their home country and are over 16 years old at the time of the decision may temporarily stay in Sweden until the 18th anniversary. However, when they have reached the age of 18, they can be expelled because, according to law, an orderly reception is no longer required. Previously, these people were granted permanent residence permits. This has raised great concern among the unaccompanied youth concerned, as well as among their teachers, good men, residents and classmates. Many young people who now go to school in Sweden, learn Swedish, are active in sports clubs and try to regain their faith in the future are worried about the risk of being expelled when they turn 18. It is therefore particularly gratifying that these unaccompanied young people, many of whom are citizens of Afghanistan, will be allowed to stay in Sweden with the bill instead of being expelled. The rules now proposed cover both unaccompanied minors who have received or will be granted a temporary residence permit pending their 18th anniversary and those young people who are so close to the 18th anniversary that they have been given a decision on expulsion with suspension and came before 24 November 2015. The rules will therefore also apply to those persons who have already received decisions under the new legal position adopted this summer. The committee also makes it clear in the report that anyone who has applied for a residence permit as an unaccompanied minor by 24 November 2015 and who has received, or would otherwise receive, a decision on expulsion with deferred enforcement due to the lack of an orderly reception in the home Member State should not end up in a worse position than others covered by the Government's proposal. This group should be able to obtain a residence permit for studies even if the decision on expulsion with deferred execution has been reviewed or is subject to review and the person is 18 years old. The fact that this law becomes a reality is an important message to many of the unaccompanied people who are concerned about the future and to all the teachers and good men who are working hard to give them a good life in Sweden. But that is not the only thing that will have to be done. We have been reached by worrying reports of suicide and mental illness among the group of unaccompanied minors, especially in recent months. This points, not least, to the need to improve knowledge of the situation of unaccompanied minors and how to improve reception. It is therefore welcome that the government has now set up a national centre of knowledge for unaccompanied minors under the National Board of Health and Welfare. It is important not only for the sake of individual children but for society as a whole that we manage to give unaccompanied children and young people a good reception and counteract the problems that have arisen. Children need security and stability in order to build a future for themselves and be able to participate in our community. That is why we need to improve the situation step by step. For some young people, this law means that they can complete high school and then have the opportunity to have a permanent residence permit through work instead of being expelled on their 18th birthday. For other young people, the proposal provides them with longer residence permits and can be confident that they will be able to complete their upper secondary school studies. The Green Party is working hard for refugees' rights, not least for those who are children and young people, in any given situation, based on what is politically possible. At some times we have been able to implement reforms for a more humane migration policy, and in other times it has been a matter of trying to prevent a more restrictive policy. I am extremely pleased that we are now in a position where we manage to take an important step to increase the security of newly arrived children and young people and the opportunity to create a future in Sweden. I support the proposal in the report.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-184	Mr President, I would like to I noted that in her speech, Maria Ferm said that she admits that this proposal is a little thorny. I share that view. It's probably the understatement of the day. This is completely messy and will become legal insecure. It is enough to read Maria Ferms's own speech on all the different categories and lengths of the residence permit – one gets 13 months, another gets 13 plus 13, someone gets 6 months, someone else stays for life and so on. But there are some who will not be granted a residence permit. This applies, for example, to families with children where half the family is still in Syria. If you are in Syria and have the right to be a relative immigrant to Sweden, the waiting time for an association call at our embassy in the neighbouring country is now over a year with the temporary legislation we have. In Lebanon, such conversations cannot be made at all. And those covered by the new Temporary Asylum Act do not have the right to family reunification. At the same time, Maria Ferm describes that the proposal that is now before the Riksdag on the extension of the residence permit for studies should also cover persons who are actually without protection reasons and should be expelled. Those people will be over 18 years old. In practice, this means that boys over 18 years of age, men of age without asylum reasons who have been given an expulsion decision, can stay in Sweden for four years to study in high school, while families with children in Syria must not be reunited. With what morality does the Green Party think this is reasonable? Can't Maria Ferm explain why it should be that families with children in Syria split up while adult men without asylum reasons should stay in Sweden?
i-7492349ed945fa7b-188	Mr President, I would like to I and Fredrik Malm have debated this issue in the House before. Then hopefully I managed to sort out some of the things in this bill that Fredrik Malm had misunderstood, and that was good. But there are quite a few accusations now as well. For me it becomes quite incomprehensible, for example when Fredrik Malm puts family reunification against these children and young people having the opportunity to stay in Sweden. It is clear that we need to work to extend the right to family reunification, and that is something that we are doing. If the Liberals vote against this bill but go on the agreement that existed from autumn 2015, this means that they want to force children into child labour and ensure that they drop out of high school, because that is how they will be able to get permanent residence permits. If you do not want to support the October 2015 agreement and do not want to make these additions, it means doing so that children get less opportunities than adults to have permanent residence permits. This means that all these children who have started high school, have got a life here, have friends, have a context and want a future here but are concerned that they get short temporary residence permits can not feel safe to stay. Instead, many of them will be rejected when they grow old enough. For me, this is a completely unreasonable position, especially for a person who represents a liberal party in which to put people first and to look after the rights of individuals and refugees. It is very difficult to see why children should then be given worse opportunities than adults to permanent residence permits or why they should want to end their studies in fear of being rejected instead of trying to find a job.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-191	Mr President, I would like to The only people who want to give children worse opportunities than adults are the government and the parliamentary majority, who have pushed through the new temporary law that means that you divide families with children. We voted against it. Maria Ferm says: We work for family reunification. No, you don't. You have pushed through legislation that is worse for it. It doesn't belong, says Maria Ferm. Yes, of course it does. The issue of reunification for families with children and the issue of extended residence permits for upper secondary school studies are both the consequences of temporary legislation. What we now have to discuss in Parliament is a consequence of your not being satisfied with the temporary law. No, neither am I. If you are not satisfied with the temporary law, look at the issue of family reunification! But you don't. The question remains. Look at Syria! After cyanide attacks and chemical attacks in Ghouta outside Damascus and in Idlib, half the population of Syria is on the run. 5 million Syrians are registered refugees in neighbouring countries. Many of them are in Turkey, Lebanon, Kurdistan and elsewhere. The government makes it as difficult as possible for the people of Aleppo, Damascus, Idlib, Rojava and so on to get here. At the same time, you are saying that a person in Sweden who is of age and has been refused his/her asylum application because he/she has no grounds for protection should be granted an extension of his/her residence permit. In over nine out of ten cases, it's men. Officials without asylum grounds are protected. They're going to high school up to the age of 25. However, people who remain in war Syria should have to wait for a year, that is, during a full residence permit, to get into a Swedish diplomatic mission for a conversation about connection at all. I ask the Green Party once again: with what morality is this reasonable? I can't see it in front of me-- is this environmental party policy, or what?
i-7492349ed945fa7b-196	Mr President, I would like to It is difficult to answer such an unserious speech. Of course, family reunification is important, but it is still a different issue from what we are discussing today. However, we have taken steps to increase the opportunities for Syrians, for example, to reunite. The Embassy in Khartoum opened a few months ago to Syrian family reunification, which was something we worked for a long time. We will continue to work to increase those opportunities. But it does not improve by ensuring that children who have come to Sweden are rejected instead of being allowed to stay here and finish high school. That's what would be the consequence. If the Liberals' proposal were to go through, i.e. reject this bill, it would mean that the children were not allowed to complete high school, that they would have less opportunity than adults to have a permanent residence permit and that they would feel insecure, which we have already seen risks leading to mental illness and very serious events. It is very difficult to understand how this position can be reached. It is far more reasonable to make these additions, which mean that instead of either dropping out of high school in order to look for a job in a panic or being rejected when they are old enough, i.e. turning 18, children are given the security to be able to complete upper secondary school education and then have time to establish themselves on the labour market and to be able to make a living. I think it is very important that we have tabled this bill. It is crucial that we can get these supplements. This will lead to a much better working environment at school. It will lead to a better future for these children, and that is something we need in order to have a system that protects the people in the midst of it.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-200	Mr President, I would like to We in the Center Party voted against the temporary law of the Riksdag and are still against it. Instead, we support the agreement reached between the government and the alliance parties in October 2015 which, among other things, would give children permanent residence permits. If that agreement had been followed by the government, we would not have had to stand here today at all. The government has now instead presented this bill on residence permits for secondary school studies. But trying to patch and fix like this afterwards rarely gets particularly good. The government's attempts to correct its mistakes have received considerable criticism from several consultation bodies, which believe that the new proposal is complicated and difficult to understand and contains several questionable elements. The proposed rules pose a risk that both legal certainty and processing times will be adversely affected. We in the Center Party agree with that criticism. On the part of the Centre Party, like many consultation bodies, we have pointed out a number of serious shortcomings in the original proposal. Some of these shortcomings have been corrected by the government in accordance with our demands, and this makes the proposal much better, although we continue to wish that it would not be necessary at all. Our basic position is that those who can support themselves and who comply with laws and regulations should be allowed to stay in Sweden. In the original proposal, young people who do not fully pass high school but still manage to get jobs would not be allowed to stay here. We would never be able to support such an anti-job line. Now the proposal has been amended so that the person who has a job can stay regardless of whether or not it has approved grades on all subjects. That's a great improvement. Our position is that this should not be necessary at all. However, since the government has gone so much further in a restrictive direction than the agreement on migration policy, despite all its major shortcomings, the proposal is better than nothing. That is why we in the Center Party will vote in favour of the proposal. However, much else would have to be done to improve the situation and increase the security of unaccompanied minors. Since last spring, the Migration Agency has written up many unaccompanied minors of age. Those who have been assessed as over 18 years of age have, as a result, usually received expulsion decisions. However, the methods used in the age assessments have been too arbitrary and legally insecure. The National Board of Forensic Medicine has now started to carry out medical age assessments on a large scale, and that is a good thing. The young people who have been given a final decision and where the age assessment has been done according to the older routine should be given the opportunity to be tested according to the new, more legally secure method. Otherwise, we risk continuing to expel minors just because they happened to end up in the system a few months before the Swedish authorities got a working model for age assessment in place. That's completely unreasonable. Moreover, since the processing times are very long, many people are 18 years old before the decision is taken and risk getting an expulsion decision. The Center Party wants the decision to be based instead on the age of the person when the asylum application was lodged. Starting from the age of the application increases predictability and security for the unaccompanied, and two people with identical conditions will be treated equally. We in the Center Party really want all asylum seekers to get their municipal placement right from the start in order to reduce relocations. At least care should be taken to ensure that young people who are written up to 18 to 21 years of age should be allowed to remain in their municipality while the rejection decision is being appealed. It would increase the security of not being picked up from the known environment. The municipality cannot lose its right to compensation from the State either. It is very important in this context. In addition, we need to ensure that municipalities have the knowledge and conditions to deal with young people with mental illness. It is also part of increasing the security of the unaccompanied. Sweden's migration policy should be orderly. Much needs to be changed both in the big and in the small. Not everyone who has applied for asylum can be granted a residence permit. That's also the Center Party line. But we should not expel people who can support themselves. Furthermore, we politicians have a huge responsibility to protect some of the most vulnerable people in our country. This proposal is a small step in this direction.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-210	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a good debate and also a thank-you to the committee for the benevolent treatment of our bill. It's important that we get it in place. I would like to express my particular thanks to Johanna Jönsson and the Center Party for your constructive comments which we took in and which we have sought to satisfy as much as possible. This has made the legislation better. I would also like to extend special thanks to Mrs Pethrus of the Christian Democrats for your constructive attitude and for saying, despite the criticism you have, that this is a proposal that must be passed through the Parliament. You see why we do it. Migration policy contains a wide range of ethical dilemmas. We want to do as much as possible and help as many people as possible. At the same time, we realize that we cannot do everything. Yet in recent years Sweden has done more than any other Western country to face the global refugee crisis. Only since the war broke out in Syria in 2011 have we given shelter to 143 000 Syrians – men, women and children – who might otherwise have perished in a bomb quake in Homs or Aleppo. There are 65 million refugees in the world. That's what's disturbing taking the number ever. As we now make the effort we make on the Swedish side, it is the largest humanitarian effort we make in Sweden in our time. There's as many people as we've taken care of. In 2015, we reached the top of the number that came to Sweden, 163 000. The experience of that year can be divided by the fact that we learned two strong lessons. The first lesson was that a small country can do a great deal. We were able to accommodate over 100,000 people in four months – September, October, November and December 2015 – and provide shelter and food for the day for almost everyone who came. It was an enormous effort and a great task that we then solved. That was one lesson, namely that a small country can do a great deal. The second lesson is that a small country cannot do everything. There is a limit for us too. We ended up in a situation where we saw that if this were to continue, we would not be able to guarantee accommodation. But not only that. We would also have huge problems with integration and reception in a few years' time. Such things as housing, teachers, social secretaries, schools and everything. We had a situation where what we had at some point came over 10,000 a week. We understood that it was not possible to continue like that. We were then forced to take extraordinary measures. The border controls were introduced on 12 November 2015 and the ID checks were introduced on 4 January 2016. At that time, we also had to lie down at the lowest, minimum level of the European Union, as far as refugee legislation is concerned. We concluded that when we perhaps have 150 000 people waiting to hear from Sweden, we cannot continue to have the most generous refugee policy across the EU. I can't. Then we must be able to concentrate on taking care of the people who have come to Sweden and give them a good reception and a good establishment here. Now a year and a half afterwards, the situation is normalising. We tightened up so that we could take care of those who came in 2015. Last year the Finnish Immigration Service made 112 000 decisions. The queues, if you look at how many are waiting to hear from them, have been more than halved this year. There is still a great deal left, but I am convinced that we will make it. One advantage that we have right now is that the people who are granted a residence permit will be able to enter the strongest labour market that we have had in many years. It is falling unemployment, falling long-term unemployment and the lowest youth unemployment we have had in 13 years. There are 100,000 vacancies. It's the worst number ever. Of course it's a big advantage. We prepared for this by going in from the start with training also during the period of asylum. These are projects that are about Swedish from the first day so that people could start learning Swedish already during the time they sat and waited for the news. The fast track in labour market policy was aimed at identifying the type of training that comes with them and whether we can use that training here. If they are teachers, they should be able to become teachers in Sweden. If they are nurses, they should be able to become nurses in Sweden. If they have an education as car mechanics, construction workers or whatever we are talking about, they should be able to come in and work with this in Sweden. We have prepared that. I am less concerned about the labour market right now when we see the forces that are still there. But I see that we have other narrow sectors. The hardest one right now is the homes. We must ensure that we continue to build a great deal of housing. We build more housing than we have in maybe 40 years in Sweden. However, we may have to raise something further in order to be able to do this. Here, too, we have new legislation in place that says that all municipalities must take responsibility. We didn't have that just over a year ago. We do now. It also facilitates establishment. We will do this – I am absolutely convinced – with the challenges that exist. The ID checks are up to date again. We said from the beginning when it came to the ID checks that they would be temporary. They were hard to push through. I know that myself, because I was involved in doing that. We said right from the start that they can be hard to push through. But it's even harder to know just when to remove them. It is a very difficult balance to make. I note that no bourgeois party voted in favour of this when we pushed it through. The Center Party voted against, and the other bourgeois parties abstained. Now we have decided that we will not extend the ID checks, but that they will cease from tomorrow. The difference now with last year in relation to this part is that we now have a law in place that means that asylum legislation is at the minimum level of the European Union. We didn't last year. The difference is also that, as far as we can judge, Germany has been grazed by its backlog, that is, the large number of people who last year were not registered as asylum seekers and, if we had to introduce ID checks in order to have control over. There are also several other things that differ this year compared to last year. It allows us to take this step. We are compensating for the removal of ID controls with reinforced border controls, but at the same time we are saying that, if necessary, we will be prepared to reintroduce ID checks. However, our assessment right now is that this will be possible. I couldn't help but smile a little yesterday when I heard discussions about this and the reaction of the Moderates. When we introduced the ID checks, a lot of people complained. When we do away with the ID controls, there are also many who complain. But the unique thing about the Moderates is that they complain both when we introduce ID controls and when we abolish them. It is clear that you should be in opposition, but a little consistency might be called for. Part of the new legislation that we brought forward concerns temporary residence permits. There is basically a deal with the bourgeois about temporary residence permits. Fundamentally, the construction of a temporary residence permit with the possibility of a permanent residence permit is in place if you manage to establish yourself in the labour market and get a job. It was a vital part of the deal we made with the bourgeois in October 2015. It can work, because it creates a strong driving force for work. At the same time, however, we must be in control of the conditions on which people are working. Do they live up to collective agreements or collective agreements, and do they manage to do so? We are looking at this carefully to ensure that it cannot be exploited. It was a bit strange earlier in the debate to hear Fredrik Malm attacking exactly this link, i.e. job PUT – permanent residence permit if you get a job. We agreed on this; that was the construction we should have. To then hear the Liberals attack this particular connection feels a little strange. Are we no longer in agreement on this? When we pushed through the temporary law, there were many consultation bodies that pointed precisely at the young people in this regard. They pointed out the difficulty and absurdity of the fact that the job PUT, i.e. permanent residence permits, should also include young people. This would put an end to the incentives and incentives for remaining in school in practice. Therefore, when we pushed this through, we said that we had to take it in a special order. The focus for young people must be that they go to school. It is good both for themselves and for Sweden. If we had not done this, it would mean that, for example, a 17-year-old who is currently receiving a temporary residence permit would not want to remain on the school bench for a single day. He or she would then enter the labour market directly and take any job in order to obtain a permanent residence permit. It's not a good incentive for these kids. We were clear when we pushed through the temporary law that we do not want to push child labour. It will be wrong both for young people themselves and for Sweden if they are driven out of school and into the labour market. This is the background to the fact that we have produced the proposal. Now a young refugee is given the opportunity to go to high school and finish high school. Regardless of what has happened in your home country during this time, you get a chance to then establish yourself in the labour market. That is the very essence of the proposal. There are many details, but that is what it is all about. Paula Bieler from the Swedish Democrats is wrong when she claims that we are introducing some kind of automatic permanent residence permit with this proposal. We don't. We give young people who have come a chance to study and a chance to establish themselves in the labour market. The reservations in the report show that the Left Party's line, of course, is that it basically wants to return to permanent residence permits. We do not dare to take that step, because we do not want to risk getting back in the same position as we were in 2015 with 35 000 unaccompanied young people, 26 000 of whom came over four months. That is equivalent to 1 000 school classes over four months, and we simply cannot do that again. The risk is that we will end up in exactly this situation if we return to these rules. Moderates, Swedish Democrats and Liberals come forward with a refusal request. One should know that if our proposal were to fall, you would push child labour forward. I am perhaps not surprised that the Swedish Democrats think this, because you are against immigration at all. You don't want them here. The Moderates may not really see the consequences on the labour market of this, and it may also in a sense be understandable from your point of departure and your traditional policies. But the fact that the Liberals are in this position is hard to understand. I heard Fredrik Malm say that you are constructive. But not in this regard! Why do you want to drive these kids into child labour? Why shouldn't they get the chance to go to high school while they're here? You say you're for education. But with your rejection, you'd drive these kids out to the Old Town pubs to do dishes instead of going to high school. Would it be better for them? Would it be better for Sweden to have such a solution? It will be the consequence if you press the rejection button when the vote takes place. Finally, I'll say something about the Law Council. The Law Council did not reject the proposal. On the contrary, they had only minor comments. As far as the substantive points of view are concerned, we met the Law Council. Among other things, one had to consider whether one of the young people had committed crimes and that one could then refuse a residence permit. We included this in the final proposal. But the Law Council did not reject the proposal. Let me add something about Christina Raise Larsen's point about the 16-year-olds. I'm saying she's wrong. We don't discriminate against 16-year-olds. No 16-year-old will be denied going to high school. I believe that this is based on a misunderstanding of the transitional rule that exists. This possibility is provided for under the new law from the age of 17, but before that the usual rules apply to the temporary law, and it will still be possible to start high school. I would like to say that this is clearly stated in the proposal. There has been a discussion about the role of teachers here. I just want to say that we are not obliging any teacher or principal to do anything more than they are doing today – nothing. It is the applicant who will show that you have conducted your studies. But, as I said, it does not mean that you must have been approved in everything. You have to show that you have done your studies, and I think that is a reasonable requirement to make. If you are to be granted a residence permit for upper secondary school studies, you should go to upper secondary school; then you should not skip. The whole basis for the residence permit then falls. You must have done your studies, and that is what you should be able to show. Normally you hear the Liberals being too demanding in school, but suddenly there is some kind of calllessness that should spread out. I don't understand that at all. Mr President, I would like to I know I've spoken too long. Finally, the bill increases the security of young people without leading us to the situation we had in 2015. It is better that the young people who have arrived receive an education. It's better for them, and it's better for Sweden.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-244	( THE PRESIDENT: For the record, I note that the actual speaking time exceeded the notified speaking time by more than 100 %. )
i-7492349ed945fa7b-245	Mr President, I would like to I rarely have the same views as the Social Democrats, but I have always understood that you are a serious party, not least in government. I am therefore extremely surprised, because I do not think that the government has taken account of what the consultation bodies have said. The referral bodies are those who know a little more and those who have to deal with this. The Administrative Court of Appeal clearly states, and I read it out before, that it is the protection grounds for the person in need that form the basis for his right to reside in Sweden and that this should apply regardless of whether he is studying or not. The Law Council has certainly not rejected this, but the reason for that is that the temporary law is already in place, if I have read correctly. However, it flies the flag of extremely difficult legislative assessment and that this can affect legal certainty, and legal certainty is one of the most important things in relation to asylum matters. A number of authorities and administrative courts say that this is not good, and I think the government should have listened to this much more. My first question is: what is it that makes the Government, as I see it, have taken too lightly what the consultation bodies have said? My second question is about the reply from the Migration Agency, where they talk about processing times, higher costs and that they lack analysis of whether it will actually work in general, for example if these people will get a job after studying. They point out that in order to obtain a job and a permanent residence permit, it is assumed that one can prove one's identity. The Finnish Immigration Service estimates that the cost of this proposal is approximately 500 million per year.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-251	Mr President, I would like to We're listening to the referrals. That is exactly why last year, when we went forward with the temporary law, we read very carefully what a number of consultation bodies said about the young people in particular. What many of the consultative bodies said was that if this were to include young people, they would not want to spend a day or even an hour in school but would instead be driven into the labour market. That is exactly why we said that we are excluding this group and giving those people the opportunity to go to high school. It is best for them and for Sweden that they receive such an education. This is, in fact, an example of the fact that, in the light of what the consultation bodies said last year about the temporary law, we changed the actual way in which we were going to do by exempting these young people. That is the main objection to what Mikael Cederbratt says, because if we were to go on your rejection now, it would actually mean that these young people would be driven into the labour market and into child labour. At least I can't defend that, and I don't think Mikael Cederbratt can really do that either. When we developed this legislation, we also saw criticism of referrals. That is why we have developed the bill in terms of how it should be interpreted in certain respects. I am well aware that it is complicated legislation, but when we have written the proposal, we have responded to those points and made it clearer. This also applies to the criticisms of the Law Council, which I touched upon, which we have, among other things, addressed substantially. Mikael Cederbratt's problem in this debate is that if this were not to go through, there is a risk that we would instead drive these young people into the labour market, even though they should actually go to school. My question to Mikael Cederbratt is whether he thinks it is a reasonable order.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-256	Mr President, I would like to We Moderates believe that the basic principle should be that you should be here and get protection and permission, you should have reasons for protection. This is our basic entry point in the foreigner's legislation. That is why we are critical of this bill, because now we are drifting a little bit in this regard. You actually do. The Finnish Immigration Service estimates that the cost will be 500 million a year, and that means about 2 billion under this temporary law. We are not discussing ID controls today, but the abolition of them will of course affect inflows to Sweden. There are very likely a number of people who are not registered in Denmark – Danish authorities have not been particularly fond of this and have not worked very hard to register them – and who will cross the bridge or cross Sundet in any other way. I would like to ask the Government whether he believes that this EUR 500 million per year in increased costs will suffice. I would not be surprised if Denmark would quite soon abolish its border controls against Germany, because the reason they introduced them was that it did not move on to Sweden once it entered Denmark. I visited Denmark and politicians there last March, and then we discussed Nordic cooperation. The criticism of the ID controls has been that they have made border commutes more difficult. I would have thought it would be much better to remove the ID controls if at the same time there was a Nordic agreement. Does the Minister of Migration think that this 500 million in increased costs will be enough?
i-7492349ed945fa7b-262	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the ID controls and Denmark, I saw that the Danish Prime Minister spoke yesterday and was very in favour of their abolition. The fact that we once introduced the controls was due, among other things, to the fact that Denmark did not have order on its territory. They didn't control who went through Denmark. When I said, as a minister, that I thought that Denmark must have border controls against Germany, the Danes refused to introduce them. It was only after we introduced ID controls that they were forced to do so. If Denmark had only been in control of its country, we would never have had to introduce ID controls at all. Now the situation is different. Perhaps there are not so many unregistered in Denmark, but they have been in Germany. By this time last year it was 200 000 – 300 000. At that time we were concerned that, when they tightened up their legislation, on top of the 150 000 – 160 000 that we received in 2015 could very well get 100 000 or perhaps 150 000 more in 2016. That's why we introduced the ID checks. Now backlogg g is from the German side almost registered, and so we see that the situation has changed. At the same time, however, we are also prepared to start following this day by day if we lose control and the figures start to rise, and also to reintroduce the controls if necessary. No, we do not change the principle of the grounds of protection, but this includes those who have grounds of protection. But then we have also said that if you have been refused but then cannot be sent home because there is no reception on the other side, i.e. there are enforcement obstacles, you will have the opportunity to apply for this kind of residence permit for upper secondary school studies. That's because the alternative is unreasonable. What else are we gonna do for these kids who can't go back?
i-7492349ed945fa7b-266	Madam President, I would like A lot of things were said here. I think I changed my focus ten times while listening to the Minister's speech. I can briefly say that however much Minister of Justice he is, Morgan Johansson has a very own definition of child labour that is not at all consistent with, for example, the UN defi nition where the limit is at 14 years. We certainly know that the Social Democrats and the government want school duty through high school, and I am grateful that we do not have it, because one should be able to choose one's own path. There has been a brief discussion about the ID controls which have now been abolished. The Minister mentioned in his speech that we are beginning to return to a normal state of affairs, and that is a sign of this, if nothing else, that we are moving to a normal state again where the government and politicians in power do not understand the consequences of the policy we are pursuing and will sooner or later lead to exactly the same situation as we had in 2015. The ID checks are abolished, which enables more people to reach Sweden's border and apply for asylum here when this is not really where they should apply for asylum. After all, border controls do not stop asylum seekers, but only those who, for the reasons for which they are wanted, because they already have expulsion orders or because they have been registered elsewhere and we know about them, are not allowed into our country. As far as this law is concerned, the Minister of Migration specifically claims that I was wrong when I said that it leads to more people getting PUT. It's a truth with modification. The law does not specifically allow PUT, but considerably prolongs the time that people without asylum reasons can stay in the country, seek work and have access to PUT. They get a significantly longer TUT from the start. In principle, it extends over the time that the temporary legislation is supposed to be, i.e. after that, you will be able to apply under completely new rules.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-272	Madam President, I would like That is exactly what I was pointing out. Paula Bieler said, or suggested in any case, that the law would mean automatic permanent residence permits. Then I said: No, it does not, it is a temporary residence permit. You get a chance to go to high school and establish yourself in the Swedish labour market. If you have done this, you can get a permanent residence permit. That's what the setup looks like. As far as child labour is concerned, the Convention on the Rights of the Child is clear. The limit for children is 18 years old – that is what we are talking about. I said it's not a good situation with the current rules when a 17-year-old will not want to stay in school one more day because he or she is going to go out and take any job. We think it's better for him or her to go to high school. It is better for him or her, and it is better for Sweden and for the opportunity to establish themselves here. Paula Bieler said that now that we are not extending the ID checks, it will lead to exactly the same situation as in 2015. We will be monitoring developments very closely in the coming weeks. We're not going back to the 2015 situation. Paula Bieler must understand that when making such decisions there are always arguments for a certain position as well as arguments against. The argument against this has always been the integration in the Öresund area, which we have taken very seriously. We see that the argument for ID controls has been weakened by the fact that we have new legislation in place in Sweden, which is at the EU's minimum level, by Germany handling the large amount of unregistered ones they have had, by having the Turkey agreement and by having other border controls across Europe. This leads us to find in an overall assessment that this is the reasonable thing to do at this point in time.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-277	Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats have consistently pushed the line that we should work for joint Nordic border controls precisely to avoid the problem caused in the Öresund region. As long as this does not exist and is a fact, we do not see any real possibility of removing the ID controls. As I said, border and ID controls are aimed at different things. As Mikael Cederbratt pointed out, there are probably many in Denmark who will be able to come here now. We have already heard reports that there is talk of ferry tours being increased now that the ID checks are no longer in place. Child labour according to UNICEF's definition is when children up to 14 years work over 14 hours a week. I assume that the Social Democrats will present new legislation that defines child labour in a different way in Sweden, that is, everyone who works and who has not yet turned 18. I would find that unfortunate, but that is not what the discussion is about. This legislation extends the possibility for people who are not on asylum grounds, even if they are young, and who have come here for the wrong reasons – reasons that our legislation does not consider valid – to have extended residence permits that go beyond the scope of the temporary legislation. Thus, they can apply for an extension, again under the legislation that will be in place. There's a lot of evidence that it's going to be very similar to what used to be. As has been the case by many, people who have protection reasons and who, by studying or asserting themselves in some way and showing that they at least show up at school, also receive a considerably longer residence permit than those who actually have asylum grounds. You move the foundation to studies from being here in shelter. Does the Minister of Migration really think that this is a good order?
i-7492349ed945fa7b-283	Madam President, I would like As far as border controls are concerned, I think that the Swedish Democrats' proposal on Nordic border controls is rather naive. I do not want to replace Swedish border control with a check that Denmark is going to do between Denmark and Germany, for the simple reason that I honestly do not trust that Denmark can do it. We can handle it at our borders between Sweden and Denmark. We will also strengthen border controls to ensure that we have an eye on who enters Sweden. When it comes to believing that Denmark could do the job we are doing now, they did not do this in 2015, even though we urged them to do so. After all, Denmark did not even have control over its territory. I think that way is completely unrealistic. Paula Bieler talked about ferries. The ID controls are not removed on the ferries between Germany and Sweden, but they are still there. This applies to the ferries between Helsingborg and Helsingör, and I do not know if there can be so many more ferries than it does. I think it's 20-minute traffic. I don't know what ferries she's talking about. The main problem is that if the rejection that the Swedish democrats want goes through, the young people who are already in Sweden will not want to remain in school for one more day, but will instead seek out the labour market. This is bad, both for them and for Sweden, because it is always better that they have the opportunity to go to high school and thereby establish themselves. They have a good chance of doing this, and I think that is basically a good thing. As has been said, there is a reason for asylum, but there is also a group which has been rejected and which cannot be sent back to Afghanistan or Iraq, for example, because there is no proper reception. Then it's better that they can stay and go to high school.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-288	Madam President, I would like I noted that the Government had been written in eight minutes' speaking time and that he only began to talk after nine minutes about the bill that he himself has presented and the report that we are discussing. It is disrespectful to the Riksdag to come here and make some kind of general political speech for nine minutes. The Government is welcome to sign up when there is general political debate in Parliament or call a press conference or so, but do not use our time, Morgan Johansson! We have had to occupy ourselves with your proposals, and you are making some sort of general political statement in this House. We are now discussing the SfU19 report. Madam President, I would like Morgan Johansson says that the basis for this is asylum. No, it's not. The basis for this is not that you are in need of protection. The basis for this is that secondary school studies are made a reason for asylum. It's something completely different. The suspension of enforcement of a decision rejecting an application for asylum does not mean that there are grounds for protection, but that there is a suspension of enforcement on expulsion. I thought our Minister for Migration was aware of this – it is like the fundamentals of Swedish migration policy. I shall now turn to my central question. What this legislation means is that, in practice, the Vice-Chancellors in Sweden are allowed to decide whether people can stay here or not. The basis for obtaining a residence permit after the four years is that you have completed your studies. This waves Morgan Johansson away and says that no principal has to make a decision about it. But this is not how Swedish school is built. A student in a Swedish school is not responsible for everything. The student is responsible for attending his or her classes, but then it is the principal who is the school leader. The school has the ultimate responsibility, not the individual student, whether it is a new arrival or not.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-294	Madam President, I would like I have been in Parliament for 20 years now, and I think this is the first time I have heard a Member of Parliament complain that the Minister is here to speak. It's usually just the opposite. We usually complain that we do not come to the debates, especially when we have our own proposals to defend. In fact, Fredrik Malm has to bear the fact that when you argue for such a question, which is so much discussed, you put it into context. But I understand that Fredrik Malm has a difficult position to defend and therefore grabs straws and tries to take debates that really do not belong here. Here's the thing: If Fredrik Malm gets his way today, these young people will not be able to get a residence permit for upper secondary school studies. They will not want to spend another day in school but will instead be driven out into child labour. Is that better, Fredrik Malm? Is it a liberal position for these young people to be driven out to work when they are 17 instead of going to high school? In the past, it was not a liberal position to do so, but now it is clearly the Liberals' line: to get involved with Moderates and Swedish democrats about a rejection of a bill, which means that these young people will have a much weaker position and have it much more difficult. We ask no more of the principals and teachers than we have done at all times, namely that they live up to their authority's responsibilities and exercise authority. I trust Sweden's principals and teachers. We are not putting any more data on them, but all we are saying is that anyone who wants a residence permit for upper secondary school studies should have conducted their studies. Does Fredrik Malm really want to be able to grant a residence permit for anyone who does not come to education without having to go to school? Or does he want them to go to the Old Town to do dishes?
i-7492349ed945fa7b-300	Madam President, I would like It is very positive that the Government is here, but then we expect the Government to talk about what is the subject of the day and not about a lot of other things. That's all I said. I think Per Albin Hansson won the election in Sweden in 1932. Thereafter, the sossians have ruled the country with the exception of 10 to 15 years. I thought that all those years you had been able to ban child labour. Or is it some kind of general, narrow-minded criticism being levelled at by the Social Democrats when people are critical of their proposals? Then you say, "You want child labor." That's complete nonsense! Can't the government manage to discuss the matter? Morgan Johansson says, in view of the fact that responsibility is now being transferred to principals, that he trusts Sweden's teachers. Yes, Morgan Johansson may do so; that is not the problem. The problem is that Sweden's teachers and school leaders do not trust Morgan Johansson. The Swedish National Agency for Education writes in its referral that it considers that the proposal for a residence permit for studies at upper secondary level means in practice that the head of the education may decide the time of the residence permit. The Swedish School Leaders' Association, which is the employee organisation of Sweden's Vice-Chancellors, writes: School leaders and teachers are in danger of facing very difficult ethical dilemmas. ..................................................... This cannot, of course, be a little laxly waved away by the government. It is extremely serious criticism of a bill that Morgan Johansson himself has presented to the Riksdag, where the principals say they are faced with very difficult ethical dilemmas. What is the government's response to this?
i-7492349ed945fa7b-306	Madam President, I would like The answer, of course, is that we have responded to this. They rightly levelled this criticism at the original bill, based, I believe, on a misunderstanding: they thought they would also take the grades into account. But it wasn't like that. In the light of these referrals, among other things, we made it clear that it is a matter of conducting your studies. So in this respect, we have clarified the legislation in the light of this criticism, which in my view was based on a misunderstanding. I would like to say once again that we are not putting any further tasks on either the school, the principal, the teacher or anyone else. It is the applicant who will show that he has conducted his studies and submit the certificates that may be needed to prove this. In the case of grades or other documentation, we clarify the proposal. But Fredrik Malm will still be responsible for the answer. As we say that vice-chancellors and teachers should conduct their official duties, just as they do, Fredrik Malm wants to bring down the whole bill. He's going to press the rejection button. In practice, if it were to go through, it would mean that these young people would not want to go further in high school. Instead, they will go straight into the labour market and stand and wash somewhere in Old Town. Is it better, according to a liberal starting point, that they end up there than that they get a chance to go to high school and then get an opportunity to establish themselves in the Swedish labour market? In my view, it is better both for these young people and for Sweden that this should actually be the case.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-310	Madam President, I would like I want to thank the Government for being here. It is good that we have a discussion with the Government on such important issues. This is a temporary law to be adopted. As I understand it, it should apply until 2023 and is an addition to the previous temporary law that applies until 2019. The time perspective is therefore slightly different. We Christian Democrats have said that we do not want to say absolutely no to this proposal. The reason for this is that adults who come here have the right to change their tracks. If you get a job and have your own livelihood, you have the opportunity to stay in Sweden even if you do not have the usual protection reasons. We think that's a good thing. What are the rights and opportunities for children to stay here? Here we give children an opportunity to complete high school. We know that in the labour market in Sweden in principle there is a need for upper secondary education; here we give them that opportunity. That is why we have thought this is good – we also give children a better chance than before to stay in Sweden. But it's a little bit about patching and fixing. We Christian Democrats have mentioned here in the debate and also in our motion that we feel that the temporary law proposed earlier by the Christian Democrats, with a residence permit for three years, would have been better. Then we would have partially solved some of these problems. So my question to the Government is: Would it not have been better to have already introduced three-year temporary residence permits?
i-7492349ed945fa7b-315	Madam President, I would like Let me first say that, as I said in my speech, I appreciate the position of the Christian Democrats. I think we understand that we need to do something for this group. If they had been subject to the same legislation as adults, it would have unreasonable consequences, for example in the labour market. It is good both for them and for Sweden that those who are already here have the opportunity to go to high school and then establish themselves in the Swedish labour market. We know that, if you are going to have a chance on the Swedish labour market in the future, it is often crucial to have a secondary education. At the same time, we realize that it will be difficult for many of these young people. That is why we also include the introduction programmes, with 13 months in the first phase and 13 months after, so that some young people can then go on the national programmes. Those who are here and are covered by the legislation thus have a real chance to go through high school and then establish themselves in the labour market. Regardless of what has happened in their home country in the meantime, they get a chance to stay in Sweden. I think that is reasonable, humane and solidarity-based. Mrs Pethrus asked me if three-year residence permits had not been better. This is always about balancing the risk of once again ending up in the same situation as we had. We received 163 000 asylum seekers in 2015, of which 35 000 unaccompanied minors. Just over the course of four months, 26 000 unaccompanied young people — 1,000 school classes — arrived in Sweden. This is the background to the fact that we said that we need to go down on the minimum European legislation for a transitional period so that we can build up our own reception capacity but also negotiate a system in the European Union that allows EU countries to share responsibility. That's the council room we've got now.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-319	Madam President, I would like As early as autumn 2014, our then party leader Göran Hägglund said that we must go down to the EU level and go in for temporary residence permits. That is how we agree. At that time, the government was obviously not ready and could not take the necessary steps to ensure that the crisis that the Government is talking about did not arise. That proposal also included family reunification. In the past, if you had a permanent residence permit, you had the right to family reunification, and that is still the case. We said okay to temporary residence permits, but we wanted the possibility of family reunification. I think that would have been much better. Another question that many e-mail us about is that all children need to move when they receive an answer from the Finnish Immigration Service that they get an opportunity for a residence permit. Does the Government believe that this will be resolved in any way here? Let me ask you one last question, Madam President. The proposal also provides for the possibility of establishment. If we look at how the start-up phase today works, we can see that, after two years in the start-up phase, 5% is going out on the regular labour market without any kind of support. The question then is whether these young people will really have a chance to establish themselves in the labour market and to obtain permanent residence permits after high school. Is this something that the Government believes will become a reality, and how many people appreciate the Government will be able to obtain permanent residence permits after this training?
i-7492349ed945fa7b-323	Madam President, I would like The answer to that question is entirely related to how we manage to manage the labour market. If we still have the same pressure on the labour market as we do today, with falling unemployment, falling long-term unemployment and 100,000 job vacancies – that's the highest we've ever seen; we've never had as many job vacancies as we have at the moment – and the lowest youth unemployment rate in 13 years, these young people will have very good prospects, I would say. But that's all there is to it. One reason why we are taking this step at all is that upper secondary education is crucial to having a chance in the labour market. Those who are now pressing the rejection button in the vote that we are going to have today, thus driving these people into the labour market without upper secondary education, are helping to put them in a very difficult situation. Knowing what the Swedish labour market looks like and what requirements will apply there in the future, I would like to say that this is actually a very wise solution. Then, of course, is the big issue of family reunification, which Mrs Pethrus raised. It is difficult for us to go forward unilaterally with such legislation now, because then we would again be in a position where we are the most generous country in the European Union. Instead, I see that we are trying to find a European solution. In the coming months, we will pursue these negotiations very actively with the Maltese Presidency to try to ensure that we can resolve this at European level. I basically believe that this is what it is all about. As far as the other measures of establishment are concerned, I would like to say that efforts are already being made during the period of asylum, so that people are given better opportunities.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-328	Madam President, I would like So, then, we are back in the Chamber for a new debate on labour law conditions in procurement – a new debate on EU directives that would have been in place more than a year ago, on 18 April 2016. At the end of June 2016, the Government put a bill on Parliament's table on a new regulatory framework for procurement in the public sector. Part of the bill's legislative proposals was based on three EU public procurement directives from 2014. However, on 30 November 2016, the Riksdag chose to say no to parts of the bill, since it went further than the introduction of the EU directives required. At the same time, the Swedish Parliament urged the government to return with a new proposal to supplement it, so that the necessary EU directives could be implemented in Sweden. We have now received that proposal. From moderate quarters, we have worked hard for the government to produce a better product than the previous, rather sloppyly written bill. We got a bit on our way. This end product is better but far from good. It still goes further in its eagerness to regulate than the directive requires, and it also becomes very difficult to interpret and unclear legislation. The existing procurement legislation offers a good opportunity for the contracting authority/entity to impose requirements. Contractors already have an obligation to examine tenders and to demand an explanation of the tender which is suspected of being low and reject it. This requires the time, skills and knowledge of those who are buyers of goods or services. But it also requires clarity in legislation. Unfortunately, the proposals in this proposal do not have the clarity that one would like. Legislation will become even more complex and time-consuming to interpret for contracting authorities. The fact is, moreover, made worse by the fact that the availability of relevant skills in this area is relatively limited today. Madam President, I would like There are several proposals in the report that can be objected to, but there are essentially two parts to which we are most critical. The first and most important thing is when specific labour law conditions are to be imposed. In our opinion, the obedience, if necessary, should be over-implemented, and we believe that it should be tested if a less rigorous wording, such as that of sheep, could be sufficient. The assessment of the need to lay down labour law conditions creates risks of significant difficulties in the application of the rules for contracting authorities and entities. We can also note that even the new proposals risk putting small businesses at a disadvantage, despite the fact that the future rules will only apply above the so-called threshold. We object to what is proposed to apply when a main contractor must impose requirements on a subcontractor. We believe that the requirements for a main contractor should be designed in such a way that the consequences for small businesses are not unreasonable. It shall be recognised that all requirements set out in a tender dossier shall also follow all the way down the supply chain, at all stages. Even if strawberries are not procured directly by the strawberry farmer, the wholesaler still has to make the same requirement that the strawberry farmer complies with the labour law requirements of the contract even when it is at its best to do, for example before midsummer. We do not believe that, for example, the farmer, the strawberry farmer or the snow-breeder should have to suffer and be disadvantaged by the government's too far-reaching proposal, but they are affected. The government stresses that companies without employees should not be adversely affected. This means punishing the entrepreneur who chooses to separate the company's finances from their private finances by allowing the company to have legal personality. Why do you choose to punish companies with only one employee – the owner? What will be the driving force for the smallest companies to participate in tenders or to be subcontractors to the public when the regulatory framework and interpretation difficulties exceed the benefits? We believe that the impact of the proposed legislation on the main contractor or subcontractor is not adequately investigated. I would like to know how the person who is to interpret the legislation should be able to make an assessment of the impact in practice on the smallest companies. One question to the parties that support the proposal is: how do you intend to monitor and control labour law conditions? In practice, who should check that the conditions are always complied with? If this is to be done locally, it means increased costs for municipalities, for example. I can say that there are concerns already today. Madam President, I would like Finally, in view of what I have now mentioned – difficulties in application and lack of clarity in the legislation, that it disadvantages small businesses, that it is over-implementing and that there is no response to how monitoring and control, linked to costs, are to be done – I would like to call for rejection of the proposal and approval of the reservations of the Moderates, the Center Party and the Liberals.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-340	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the reservation of M, C and L in this report to be approved. On 30 November last year, the Riksdag supported large parts of the Government's proposal in the bill called New Code of Conduct on Procurement. On the other hand, the Riksdag rejected the parts concerning the obligation for contracting authorities and entities to impose special conditions of employment law. At the same time, the Riksdag announced that the government would come back with additional proposals to resolve the problems and ambiguities described by the committee in its position. The Center Party considered that the government's proposal would make it more difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises and would not achieve the objective of public procurement. According to the Competition Authority, public procurement is intended to: Promoting the cost-effective use of tax resources Promoting free movement within the EU Dismantling practices restricting competition Helping businesses to do business with the public sector ensure that the company selling the goods, services or contracts requested wins under the most favourable terms. I wonder whether the new proposal, which is before us, really contributes to the purpose of public procurement. In the previous debate on the same subject, I raised the Council's views on the proposal. I do so again this time, to highlight the issue of regulatory problems. It took the Law Council eight months to read through and review the government's bill. The Council's criticism of both the underlying EU directives and the government's legislative proposals was very harsh. It was not just the bill that was comprehensive. The Council's views needed 418 pages to be accommodated. The Legislative Council was critical of the new EU directives on which the bill was based. They wrote: The directives show shortcomings of various kinds. There are provisions that are simply incomprehensible or ambiguous and can be given different meanings. Others have a meaning that is understandable but unreasonable. ..................................................... The Law Council further states that, as early as 1994, when the Public Procurement Act was introduced, it was pointed out that the Act was too comprehensive and detailed. That law then consisted of 132 paragraphs. Now the procurement legislation contains 1 000 paragraphs, which according to the Law Council makes the law difficult to understand and difficult to apply. The Law Council states that a purpose of the extensive detailed regulation can be assumed to be that procurement activities should be controlled so as to minimise the scope for abuse. However, this aim is countered if the scope of regulation is such that those who will apply the law do not have an opportunity to review it in all its details. The law has been given a level of scope and detail which is generally undesirable and which may be considered contrary to the normally applied legislative technique in Sweden. The Legislative Council, like several consultation bodies, predicted that the proposal would be difficult to apply. Difficulty is estimated to increase the risk of costly and time-consuming procurement processes. Madam President, I would like We shall have fair conditions on the Swedish labour market, but we shall also have fair procurement rules for small businesses. The government has now presented a new proposal that contains a great deal of improvements – I will say that. However, the changes are still marginal in comparison with the previous proposal, which the Parliament voted down. The major changes that have been made are the removal of the requirement for pensions and insurance and the introduction of thresholds for the application of the proposed regulations. The report states that holiday and working time conditions must not fall below statutory levels and that the conditions laid down by law or collective agreements that are most favourable to the individual must apply. As a result of this proposal, the collective right to negotiate working time and holidays loses its value. It is still as unclear in the report what minimum levels should apply. There are 685 collective agreements in Sweden and 4 100 organisations that must comply with the procurement legislation. The contracting authority will not be able to give advice to everyone, so there is a great risk that the agency will become normative, which means that the partner model will be eliminated. The proposed legislative text opens wide-ranging discretion. Who should decide when it is necessary to make social demands and whether the conditions can be established? Madam President, I would like Do we believe that competition in the public market will increase with government proposals? At 12% of contracts above the threshold, only one tender is received. The most common thing is that only two tenders are received when public procurement is carried out. With more complicated rules, as contained in the report, competition is in danger of further deterioration. Sweden differs from the majority of EU Member States by having, together with Portugal, my share of small and medium-sized enterprises winning public contracts. The explanation is highly centralised procurement and framework agreements with a few companies. The trend is large-scale. The procurements are growing. Value is rising, which benefits large companies. We would have a different quality and price level if more small and medium-sized enterprises were to participate in the tenders. The number of contracts under appeal has increased dramatically in recent years. With an even more complicated and comprehensive regulatory framework for procurement, the review will increase further. Madam President, I would like Today, legislation is already so complex that some municipalities choose to provide services on their own rather than to procure. More complicated procurement legislation risks shrinking the public market, leading to less favourable conditions for businesses and less use of tax resources. It won't do anyone any good. Control and follow-up are hardly mentioned in the report. Setting requirements without control and follow-up is counterproductive and can lead to an increase in unserious entrepreneurship, which none of us want to see. As an entrepreneur and as former Chairman of the Municipal Board, I have often been offended by the complexity of public procurement. I, who live in rural areas, know how important small businesses are for the development of the whole country. If we make it difficult for them to participate in public procurement, we will also kick our legs away for jobs and growth in rural areas. Madam President, I would like I want fair conditions on the Swedish labour market, but I also want fair procurement conditions for our small businesses. Otherwise, we run the risk of seeing what often happens when Parliament decides on comprehensive and complex regulations: there will be centralisation, uniformity and grandeur that will lead to the disappearance of small businesses and the erosion of competition, and it will again be rural areas that draw the shortest straw.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-364	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for approval of the reservation that we have with the Moderates and the Center Party. It is procured for huge amounts every year in municipalities and county councils and of course also in the state. That's hundreds of billions of dollars. It is therefore important that as many companies as possible should be able to compete in procurement and sell goods and services. It can often be very difficult for small businesses. The procurements can be very large. It is simply impossible for a small company to take on such a large procurement. It may be good to break them up into smaller parts. It is not always possible and is not always good, but sometimes it is good to break them up in smaller parts, so that small or smaller companies can have an opportunity to participate and compete. The reason for doing this, of course, is that it is an effective use of our citizens' tax money. There are, of course, also points to the fact that some companies in these procurements are more locally based, as it is easier to do with smaller companies. For example, what I myself worked with in municipal politics earlier was to make it easier for smaller companies to enter the procurements and compete. That, of course, is also the task of the state. Precisely because it concerns a more efficient use of tax money, we will make it easier for small and small companies to participate in the procurements. The proposal we have on the table today runs the risk of making it the other way round: that it will be more difficult for small businesses to participate. It risks, of course, leading to a more inefficient use of tax money. This may cause us to use tax money that we would not need, that people could keep or that we could spend on something else in school and health care or on something else under the government's direction. It is, of course, a good thing that the government has tried to make this proposal better, but there are still great uncertainties about how it affects smaller companies. The government writes that this will be followed, and we must assume that one always follows what one's proposals have for impact on reality. However, it is not necessary to put forward proposals that are thought to have a negative impact on small businesses and then to monitor their progress afterwards, but to ensure that they do so from the outset. The same applies to the costs of this. The government itself writes that it is very difficult to determine the administrative costs of the procurement. Not knowing that is not good enough for us Liberals, so we would like to call for rejection of this proposal.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-371	Madam President, I would like Now we are debating the fair terms and conditions of employment law that will apply when we buy services with taxpayers' money. I have just met taxi drivers who are sitting up here in the gallery and who can testify to intolerable conditions in the service and in the case of sick trips, and they hope that we will be able to take a step in the right direction here today. I support the committee's proposal in the report on this issue. The proposal has been modified since November, when all the right-wing parties joined forces to bring down the proposal on fair terms in public procurement. For us Social Democrats, it is an important principle that collective agreements should be the norm in the labour market. This should of course also apply when we use tax funds to buy services. Tax funds should not be used to dump wages, and therefore there were also good and sharp proposals for requirements for collective agreement-like conditions in the Government's proposal for new procurement rules that we discussed here last autumn. We would also make it easier to bid. However, the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats voted down the part of the proposal that meant better conditions and that collective agreements should be the lowest level when the state and municipalities buy services. This meant that an important justice reform for the Swedish labour market was stopped. It was in itself a good thing that the animal welfare requirement went through in November, but it is amazing that the majority in this House thought that animal welfare was more important than occupational safety. One might think that, through our Swedish model, we in Sweden had already introduced requirements for collective agreement-like conditions in terms of how taxpayers' money should be used, but that is not the case. In this case, in fact, the common rules within the EU have gone further and are something that the new procurement rules in the EU require. This has been known. The debaters before me have also testified that they have known that we should have implemented this, and that is also why the Riksdag announced to the government to return without delay if it was found that the legislation would need to be supplemented in order to implement the three 2014 directives into Swedish law. The government has now done this. It is because whatever one thinks of unions and collective agreements, Sweden must comply with EU law, and we do not do so with today's procurement rules. I therefore welcome the fact that the Christian Democrats have chosen to support the proposal. We are probably no more in agreement on the matter than we were last autumn, but at least we agree that Sweden should comply with the rules agreed jointly within the European Community. At the same time, of course, I am surprised that the other bourgeois parties dislike Swedish collective agreements and fair terms on the labour market so much that they would rather have Sweden brought before the European Court of Justice, with a great risk of being fined and fined – apparently rather than introducing labour law requirements in the procurement process. As I said, I am pleased and grateful that the Kr ist democrats have been obedient and willing to cooperate in order to come up with a proposal that will at least ensure that we do not violate European law. Thanks to a good attitude, responsibility and willingness to compromise, there is now a majority behind the proposal consisting of the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Left Party and the Christian Democrats. Madam President, I would like So what we in the majority agree on is that Sweden should comply with EU law. However, I shall make no secret of the fact that we Social Democrats would have liked to go beyond the minimum level of EU rules. The fair terms shall apply to all public procurement in Sweden. Of course, we think that this should apply throughout society. Private employers should always offer good pay, holidays, reasonable working hours, pension provision, insurance and everything else that comes with the collective agreement. However, we are not debating this issue now, although I think that this should be the case throughout society. It is totally unacceptable for workers, cleaners, taxi drivers, construction workers, truck drivers and welfare workers to be used for sometimes irreconcilably low wages that are absolutely impossible to live on. The fact that it is also done with taxpayers' money in municipalities, county councils, regions, government agencies and government agencies is repugnant. Despite the fact that labour law conditions are specifically highlighted in the directives for the performance of social protection contracts, there is opposition to implementing these improvement reforms in this House. We believe that collective agreements and labour law are crucial to maintaining this protection, but it is clear that the right does not see the benefits of fair conditions for workers. The new one from the autumn proposal is that it will now only apply to Directive-driven procurements, i.e. contracts with a value of at least the applicable thresholds, which in turn means that about two thirds of all procurements are exempted from the regulatory framework. It is not entirely good, in our view, but it is a step in the right direction, and hopefully we can improve the requirements when all stakeholders see the benefits of this. All parties to collective agreements benefit from the imposition of such conditions. The Swedish model is based precisely on collective agreements, so I see great benefits for both large and small companies that such requirements are made. The fact that public procurement is carried out in compliance with the fundamental rights of workers and under the conditions laid down by law or collective agreements contributes to the achievement and maintenance of important societal objectives and social protection. The benefits of taking labour law into account in procurement are not only good for workers' social protection. Even careful suppliers benefit from this. Nor should they risk being exposed to unfair competition by suppliers who gain economic benefits by competing with substandard employment conditions. This means that both serious entrepreneurs and workers benefit from the fact that we are demanding fair conditions in the procurement process, as this leads to competition on equal terms. There was a time when the representatives of the Right always claimed that competition was important on equal terms. Now, instead, the new trend seems to be to encourage and facilitate low-wage spirals. There are unfair terms in the employment conditions of employees in Sweden today, which should be reason enough that, if necessary, conditions should be imposed on all procurements and not only in procurements whose value exceeds the so-called thresholds. The possibility of imposing in procurement conditions on pensions, insurance and leave other than holidays should be regulated by law, and EU law should be reformed to allow Member States to make such requirements mandatory. Whatever the value of the contract, it should be mandatory, as I said, to lay down specific employment law conditions on pay, holidays and working time for the performance of contracts. It should be an obligatorium and combined with a necessary assessment. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, this is a step in the right direction, and I am pleased that we can take this decisive step today. Thank you again for your cooperation.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-396	Madam President, I would like The fact that the Centers, Liberals and Moderates are different from the other parties has emerged. Monica Green has clarified a great deal, but the special opinion of the members of the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left in FiU surprises me a little. As I understand it, Members feel that the government has not gone far enough in the bill, but they want to go further. They may even want to go further than what was developed in the first bill, and they believe that reasonable conditions should be set in all public procurements if necessary. As I understand it, it is no matter the size of the procurement. Does this mean that you believe that the threshold should be removed and that in the long term you will work to remove the threshold? This is a worrying trend. I would like to hear whether or not you think there should be thresholds.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-399	Madam President, I would like Today we are taking decisions on what is in the report, that is, including the thresholds. I have made no secret of the fact that we think the proposal is a step in the right direction but not good enough. We would have liked to have the proposal as it was presented last autumn. Of course, we want the right conditions to apply everywhere in society. We want collective agreements to apply to the Swedish labour market. That's the way we work. Last week, lex Laval was abolished against your will. In this way, the labour market will be organised in the first place. I know that the Moderates and other bourgeois parties are against collective agreements and try to stop them in every way possible. The Swedish model means strong social partners. The Moderates did their utmost during the last term of office, and the previous term of office, to detract from the ability of the trade unions to check compliance with the rules. Yes, we would have liked to go further, but with today's decision, the thresholds correspond to what European law requires.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-404	Madam President, I would like It is worrying that you are in any way trying to remove the thresholds. I would like to ask another question, which concerns the clarification of the text from the government. The bill speaks of micro-enterprises in the form of enterprises without employees. The next sentence rewrites the negative consequences that arise for micro-enterprises that are to be addressed without delay. I would like to know what is meant by remedying it without delay. What is to be addressed? What have been defined as negative consequences? Above all, I wonder about the definition. According to the business community and the European Commission, which established this in 2003, the definition of a micro-enterprise is a company with fewer than 10 employees with a turnover of less than EUR 2 million. What's in the bill? In one sense, it is to be without employees, and in the second sentence it is to be to micro-enterprises. It may be the same but is usually absolutely not the same. In the vote, we want to know whether we are taking decisions on micro-enterprises or companies without employees. I would like to clarify the matter.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-409	Madam President, I would like Maria Plass is worried that there will be demands on fair terms. I understand that. It's the Moderates always. If we improve for the workers in the country and if we make sure that there are collective agreements in the labour market, it is clear that the Moderates are worried. They have always resisted improvements for workers in this country, and they will always do so. It is clear that Maria Plass will be worried if we Social Democrats think that we should go further in the future. Then there was the question of small businesses. If problems arise in the implementation process, we want the work to go as smoothly as possible. We want to simplify for small businesses. This applies to both one-man businesses – with no employee – and micro-enterprises. They should be able to participate in the procurement process. Our ambition is to make things easier in the future. If problems arise, they will be given the help they need to remove the problems for them.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-411	Madam President, I would like Monica Green mentioned in her speech the problems of irreconcilably low wages. In her previous debates, she has used numerically low wages. It has been mentioned 11 kroner, 20 kroner and 27 kroner an hour. Where do the numbers come from? From what investigation does she draw her factual data and the basis for the proposal itself, and which Minister Shekarabi has also used? Monica Green did not mention with a single sentence the conditions for small businesses in her speech. I believe that there should be fair conditions for both workers and small businesses. Monica Green didn't mention the rule issue either. This report is to be voted on today. Has Monica Green taken note of the Legal Council's views, and does she not see any problems with regulatory problems in society that create large-scaleness and put away the feet for small businessmen? The government itself writes that it will follow up the legislation, which indicates that the government itself is unsure about how the law will beat. We should be sure of this even when we lay down legislation.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-413	Madam President, I would like I mentioned in my speech that it will be easier to submit tenders. I also mentioned that the new rules will benefit companies that have collective agreements. They need not be concerned. But, as Peter Helander says, when rules change from one system to another, there is always concern. How will the rules beat? This always applies, no matter when you change a thing. Our ambition is that there will be less hassle in the future, that it will be easier to submit tenders and that there will be funds to make demands on fair conditions for the workers too, so that the requirements not only apply to the animal welfare that Parliament decided on last Christmas. I did not mention any figures in my speech, Peter Helander, but certainly there are terribly low salaries. We heard witnesses tell us when we visited Taxi Stockholm last autumn. The Liberals' representative sat at Taxi Stockholm and said that there are rumours, that it is lying. Then the taxi drivers could describe the terribly low wages. They were absolutely not made-up wages. We understand that there are those in society who are trying to straighten out the situation and claim that the figures are fictional. It is certainly not invented that workers are exploited in slave-like conditions in this country. We're gonna change that.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-418	Madam President, I would like Of course, no one should be exploited in slave-like relationships. I have tried to check where the claims of 27 kroner an hour and 11 kroner an hour come from. It is good that Monica Green has met some who say that it is, and then the question is whether there is a real basis from an investigation that shows that people work for slave-like wages in Sweden. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson asked the Minister in the Riksdag about the sources on which the claim of 27 SEK per hour for taxi drivers is based. Ardalan Shekarabi didn't answer that. He just said there's supposed to be nice conditions, point. We know that one figure comes from a radio interview, where a person mentions that during certain parts of the day when driving traffic for the public, hourly wages may end up at a low level. The second figure, SEK 11 per hour, comes from a statement by Pia Bergman at the Swedish Tax Agency in Swedish Radio on 8 October 2015. She said she heard of a salary of 11 kroner an hour, and it was about illegal immigrants who didn't work on a real labor market with real contracts. It was criminal behaviour, a criminal act, and the exploitation of people. Monica Green says that this proposal will benefit small businesses that have collective agreements. Monica Green also knows that 60% of small businesses do not have a collective agreement. Will they then be disadvantaged if it is the case that some companies are to benefit and others are to be disadvantaged? It will be easier to procure," says Monica Green. With the thousand rules of the new procurement law, does Monica Green really think it will be simpler?
i-7492349ed945fa7b-425	Madam President, I would like Peter Helander requested sources, where these numbers came from. Then he told me himself. It's a good thing he did it. In addition, he said that it was only at certain times of the day that this driver might receive $2 an hour — almost as if it did nothing! When I hear such examples, I think it is terrible that it is happening in Sweden today, that we are actually using taxpayers' money to dump wages in this way and that people are being exploited in this way. I think it's horrible. I am pleased that we are taking a step in the right direction today. There may be some problems in the transition because it is always worried when changing systems and introducing a new system. I agree with that, but I am delighted that we are now taking a step in the right direction and getting away from such terrible figures on low wages and that people are being exploited in almost slave-like conditions. We have to get away from it. We must ensure that everyone complies with the right conditions and that there are more people who want to make use of collective agreements. We are working on small businesses signing collective agreements, on more to do so, and on small businesses, large companies and workers to benefit from the fact that we do not dump wages with taxpayers' money.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-429	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. After nearly three quarters of this parliamentary term has passed, this afternoon's vote finally gives us a framework for public procurement on the ground. I'm just a little curious about how many man-hours at the Government Office have been wasted, how much time has been spent by conscientious officials in this process and, above all, how much tax money has been wasted – all because we have a responsible minister who is so very proud that he does not want to pick up the phone, give me a signal and ask if I have any comments on this proposal. A five - minute telephone call could have saved probably thousands of man hours at the Government Office. But I am not bitter on a day like this, Madam President, but rather happy. I'm glad we get a good regulatory framework in place. I am also pleased that the Swedish democrats have, on a point-by-point basis, been absolutely right in the criticism we have previously highlighted. It is therefore exactly the same criticism that the government dismissed as nonsense, as we had not understood or even read the bill. We criticised the fact that the old proposal, which did not win the floor of the House, made it possible to make demands beyond the so-called hard core of ordinary Swedish companies with ordinary Swedish employees, while companies under the so-called Posting of Workers Act were considered to be clear demands anyway. We criticised the distortion of competition that this would entail. This has now been corrected. The same requirements are now being imposed on all companies wishing to participate in public procurement, and in all honesty it is actually more important to make the same requirements and the same conditions than the exact conditions imposed. The market economy is based on competition and only works as long as the same rules apply to everyone. It is deeply unwise to depart from this principle. We criticised the fact that a majority of the country's small businesses, those without collective agreements, would be excluded from participation in public procurement. This is also being addressed as the new regulatory framework is now being applied only above the so-called thresholds. In practice, this means that the new regulatory framework will only be applied to one third of all procurements, the largest procurements, and that two thirds are therefore not affected at all. After all, it is not a very qualified guess that it is the smaller companies, family businesses and the like, which often lack collective agreements that are not interested in the biggest procurements and vice versa. We are also pleased that we are having a system of main responsibilities. When we proposed this very thing in the past, the government has voted against it. However, for such a system to work, it must of course be practicable. A main contractor has neither the legal nor the practical means to check in detail all subcontractors. My assessment is that the current proposals are balanced and well balanced between, on the one hand, the need to get rid of the pure jokers who put this in the system and, on the other hand, the reality that our entrepreneurs live in with one administrative burden after another. Madam President, I would like Although it is somewhat outside the scope of the matter, I would nevertheless like to take this opportunity to point out that the whole Posting Act basically has a particularly far-reaching and negative impact on the Swedish labour market and the Swedish model. It costs considerably more than it tastes and should therefore be phased out. I am fully aware that it is more or less imposed on us by Brussels, by the European Union, but I still regret that we have a government which, historically at least – we will see what is happening in the future – has not been able to fight for the interests of Swedish employees, in some kind of eagerness to appear to be the best in the class in all the EU contexts. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to point out the fact that this whole legislative package is based on a particularly fragile majority with only one mandate, if it were not for the support that I and our parliamentary group will give in this afternoon's vote. We will of course analyse and evaluate how this bill will be implemented, how it will be interpreted and what effects it will have. We are fully prepared to act if it is to be abused in any way.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-442	Madam President, I would like Finally, we are getting new, comprehensive procurement legislation in place! It's very pleasing. The process that began when the new EU procurement directives were to be implemented is now under way. We will have modern procurement legislation that clarifies the possibilities of taking environmental and social considerations into account for so long. While consideration has been possible before, they have often drowned in uncertainty and difficulties in understanding that it is possible. The lowest price has been allowed to govern for too long. With the new legislation and a procurement authority, there are completely different conditions. Public procurement is about the development of society. It's about getting good opportunities to perform good public service, and it's about a lot of money. But it is also a question of using all this money properly. If we only have the lowest price as a criterion, we miss a crucial opportunity to work for the sustainable society that we all say we are striving for. Rightly used, the money in public procurement contributes to achieving other goals, such as our own environmental goals, the climate targets set in Paris and the global sustainability goals. The bill we are debating today takes further steps towards social sustainability. The procurement is a tool that can be used there, if you just want to. The proposals mean that contracting authorities and contracting entities should be able to impose conditions in procurements in terms of remuneration, holidays and working hours. We may think this has been the case in the Swedish labour market, but that is not the case many times. People are hired and work without the rights of most others in the Swedish labour market. We can't keep doing that. Strong social protection is part of a welfare society. It is self-evident – it should be – that we are doing everything to ensure that people have the same fundamental rights and that no one is taken advantage of. This should also apply to employment contracts and especially when our common money is spent. Ensuring that companies have the same requirements in the field of labour law when you want to work for the public is one way of ensuring that. At the same time, the new legislation contributes to the healthy development of businesses. Sometimes the procurement activity is the sole activity of a company or a large part of the company's business. It is therefore important that suppliers should not be exposed to unfair competition from other suppliers who win contracts by having substandard employment conditions. Big companies should not be put at a disadvantage because others are not doing the right thing. In the proposal we are debating, the aim is precisely to ensure that the supplier who wins the contract will offer his employees fair working conditions and not compete by having substandard employment conditions. There is a clear exception. This applies to so-called innovation procurements, where the contracting authority/entity requests and allows new solutions from sectors that cannot be foreseen. This means that labour law requirements will not make the use of innovation procurement more difficult. We think that this is important, not least because we can make it easier for new, perhaps crucial, environmental technologies to emerge. It is a social benefit that should not be underestimated in these times, when the climate challenge must be a common project for all of us. The Swedish model protects both employees and companies. There have been concerns that very small companies and micro-enterprises without collective agreements would be disadvantaged. Whether it has been ensured earlier or not, which the debate has been a lot about, I am pleased that it is now clear in the bill that micro-enterprises and Swedish entrepreneurship, also in a broader perspective, should not be adversely affected by the legislation. A strong and broad business community is a prerequisite for a strong and modern economy like the Swedish one. Madam President, I would like All in all, with this last piece of the puzzle, we get a comprehensive procurement legislation that takes us in a direction that makes it easier to achieve our common goals of a society with greater sustainability both economically and ecologically as well as socially. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-452	Madam President, I would like The struggle of the labour movement over the decades and centuries has been about workers not being put against workers. This is also the subject of this debate today. Should we use tax revenue in such a way that wages and social conditions are dumped on the Swedish labour market? For us and the government, the answer is obviously no. For the Centers, Liberals and Moderates, the answer seems to be yes. And for the Swedish Democrats it seems to be about whether the minister responsible has listened and called Oscar Sjöstedt or not. Whether Oscar Sjöstedt feels violated or not thus determines how the Swedish democrats view workers' conditions on the Swedish labour market. Unfortunately, we see too many examples of workers being put against workers here in Sweden. We see it in the construction industry, the haulage industry, the cleaning industry, the taxi industry and in hotels and restaurants. Unfortunately, many times the reason is that the public sector uses tax money in such a way that it dumps wages and social conditions in its procurements. The example of travelling in right-hand-controlled Stockholm County Council has been up to this debate many times. I would like to remind you of what the responsible Moderate Council Council said when he was confronted with the information that drivers had driven 180 hours a month and still had to apply for support. He said: It is not my job to comment on how our entrepreneurs conduct their business as long as they deliver what we have required them to deliver. That was the kind of evasive right-wing parties wanted to guard when they rejected the previous bill. It should be thought that it is problematic that tax funds should be used to dump wages and social conditions. Even the EU and the Commission that can be said to have neoliberal values have come further into this understanding than the citizens and the Swedish Democrats have apparently done. The previous bill, which unfortunately fell in this House, called for the possibility of demanding wages, working hours and holidays in all contracts. But there were also demands for the possibility of making demands on insurance and pensions. It was apparently precisely that part, which was about social and labour law conditions, that was the big problem. It was that part of the bill that was chosen to be deleted. It may seem that social dumping is so problematic that it should have sought to use all possible political tools to prevent it. But the bourgeoisie, together with the Swedish Democrats, was even prepared to pay a fine to the EU in order to avoid such demands. Today there are major problems in public procurement. Big serious companies are out of business. They cannot or do not even want to compete with wages and working conditions. We have heard many cleaning, taxi and truck companies and construction companies demanding changes in regulations for fair competition and for the sake of their employees. Countless are the examples of wages that are far below collective agreements. We have heard about taxi drivers driving for a few tens, about cleaners working under totally disgusting conditions and about construction companies being knocked out because they cannot compete with companies employing underpaid foreign construction workers. The bill that we and the government had negotiated could have had a great impact on workers and small businesses. In Sweden, Swedish conditions should apply to the labour market. But look, it didn't work. It was too much for the bourgeoisie and the Swedish Democrats. Now we have a new proposal to take a position on, a vaguer and less extensive product when it comes to requirements. Now only demands on wages, working hours and holidays should be made for procurements above the thresholds, i.e. one third of the procurements. In contracts below the thresholds, it is still considered more important to have the possibility of sub-offer competition of wages and working conditions. And unfortunately, the wording on the possibility of making demands on pensions and insurance is deleted. As a whole, however, it is a step forward in strengthening the working conditions of the Public Procurement Act. That is why the Left Party has also supported this bill, which we have been involved in negotiating. Madam President, I would like Finally, the Left Party, together with the government parties, has issued a special statement explaining why this bill looks like it does and why we are calling for approval. For us, it is simply a way of getting through reasonably improved conditions in public procurement. I think that this whole process says a lot about the views of the bourgeois and Swedish democrats on workers' working conditions and wages in the Swedish labour market. I would like to take this opportunity to say that the Left Party will call on all our local politicians around the country to put these requirements also below the thresholds and to ensure that pension and insurance requirements are imposed on procurement. We will fight to move the workers' positions forward and to ensure that small companies are not knocked out because of unfair competition. We think that's a fight worth taking.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-466	Madam President, I would like I support the proposal and the committee's proposal in the FiU31 report. It is good to be able to say that when it comes to this rather tough issue. After years of preparation and now at the end of months of negotiations between us Christian Democrats and the government, we get legislation on the ground that protects good working conditions in public procurement but that does not unnecessarily complicate the lives of the country's small businesses and does not risk discriminating against Swedish companies in relation to foreign ones, as the previous proposal did and as this House voted down. In addition, the previous legislation, which was proposed to lead to unnecessary concern for the country's contracting authorities, was at risk. Madam President, I would like Procurement is important. The public's purchases of goods and services translate large amounts of money and should be used wisely – to keep costs down for taxpayers, but also to support the development of society that we want to see with more innovation and innovation and with more social and environmental considerations. One conclusion of this is that there should be reasonable conditions for public procurement. There should be no doubt that employees should be able to live on their wages. The Christian Democrats believe that authorities should set an example when it comes to taking social responsibility. It is therefore important for us that public procurement contributes to reasonable conditions on the Swedish labour market. At the same time, we want to ensure equal treatment of all tenders, regardless of the size or nationality of the companies involved in the procurement and whether the companies have or do not have collective agreements. That is also why we opposed the government's first proposal, which in practice placed too much emphasis on collective agreements, which would put small and Swedish companies at risk of being disadvantaged. The proposal in the Government's new proposal on labour law requirements in public procurement now differs significantly from the proposal that was voted down last autumn, thanks to the fact that the Christian Democrats in negotiations have made demands for better protection of small and Swedish companies' opportunities to participate in procurements and requirements for reduced hassles in relation to the original proposal. We have met several serious entrepreneurs in, for example, the construction and taxi industries who no longer find it worthwhile to participate in public procurement, because rogue companies with poor working conditions for their employees dump the prices and win the contracts. As far as we are concerned, it is clear that reasonable terms and conditions and order should apply when public authorities procure. This is also a clear threat to competition, and it does not live up to our view of the responsibility of the authorities. We are therefore very surprised that it took until after the government proposal had fallen into Parliament before contact was made with us, even though our criticism of the government's proposal and our basic attitude to safeguarding employees' working conditions have been known. We would have liked negotiations to have taken place earlier, which would have made it possible for the proposal to be drawn up correctly from the outset and for us not to have this threat of fines from the European Union so strongly hanging over us. But in our negotiations, once the government turned to us, the government has acted seriously and quickly and tried to meet our views in a good way. I would like to emphasise this and thank you for the negotiations that have been tough at times but also very productive and have led, in my opinion, to a significantly better product. These changes mean that SMEs' opportunities to submit bids on a level playing field have now been greatly strengthened. All contracts below the thresholds, i.e. two thirds of all contracts, are completely excluded from the rules. The proposal also means that labour law requirements only apply to the hard core, i.e. pay, working time and holidays, which also facilitates smaller and Swedish companies. All calls to go further in the form of insurance requirements and pension solutions have been removed. This overall contributes to smoothing the playing field between Swedish and foreign companies. Another thing is that labour law requirements should be imposed only in risk industries. Labour law requirements should therefore apply to the harsh core, and the rules should only apply to procurements above the thresholds and in risk sectors. All in all, I think that this is a good balance between safeguarding employees' interests in terms of good, reasonable and reasonable working conditions and the possibility for small companies to participate in procurement. It is now also clear from the proposal that companies can choose the minimum level of collective agreements they wish to meet by those in the sector in question. In addition, it is now clear that micro-enterprises, without employees, should be exempted from the rules. The same applies to innovation procurements, where the contracting authority cannot predict the sectors from which potential tenderers can come. For municipalities, considerable clarifications have also been made which reduce the hassle. The contracting authority has been given a clear role in collecting and standardising information on the conditions applicable in each sector, and municipalities can therefore seek information from the Procurement Authority rather than seeking out the parties for each procurement. Moreover, it is now clear that in cases where sufficient information is not available if collective agreements do not require any requirements of labour law. The contracting authority has also been given a clear supporting role in assessing what constitutes a risk sector. Is everything perfect and peace and joy? No, it is very important to follow developments closely. Procurement is complicated. Although these simplifications have been made, the legislation is still complex. It is very important to follow its consequences in terms of how the conditions are set, not least in terms of how they are followed up, so that the objective of fair working conditions and the possibility for companies to participate are safeguarded. Possible consequences for the Swedish labour market and for the Swedish labour market model also need to be closely monitored. But it is good that we are now getting this in place. On the whole, the government has responded to our demands and developed a significantly better product. It is good that we are now implementing these EU public procurement directives in a way that safeguards reasonable working conditions in risk sectors, ensures equal treatment of tenderers and protects the opportunities for small businesses to participate in procurement. In addition, which is really not unimportant, we have now avoided, with this bill, excessive EU fines which would have been a significant waste of tax revenue, which goes against the principle of good governance. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to reiterate my support for the proposal and the committee's proposal in the report.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-494	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 8. The report in question is a motion report and deals with public access, confidentiality and integrity. The principle of public access is a fundamental principle of our state. It means that the work of the authorities, Parliament, regions and municipalities should be open to our citizens as far as possible. In order for the public and the media to be able to see how these bodies work, the principle of public access to public documents has been written into the Constitution of the Freedom of the Press Act. The principle of public access gives all people the right to access public, or public, documents. Documents that come in or are sent out by public authorities are usually public. All documents received by an authority shall be registered. But the principle of public access has limitations. As I said, the public has only the right to read public documents. In addition, some information in public documents is classified. This means that the authorities are forbidden to disclose the parts of documents containing such information.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-499	There is no common definition of the concept of personal integrity. One definition is the right to have one's personal personality and inner realm respected and not subjected to offensive treatment. Our second constitution states that government is to be exercised with respect for the equal value of all human beings and for the freedom and dignity of the individual. ..................................................... Confidentiality legislation strikes a balance between the interest in public transparency and protection of confidentiality. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I intend to dwell in particular on the two announcements and the Moderate reservation.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-503	We are pleased that the motion has received broad support and value that the committee's assessment text has been drawn up in agreement. Information technology offers new opportunities to exercise civic control over and demand responsibility from the governments and elected politicians. The principle of public access should be applied so that documents which are public and public are made available online to a much greater extent than at present. The state administration is and should be an example of the use of information technology in its own activities and in collaboration with businesses and citizens. It is positive that the authorities continue to work actively to open up their systems to citizens so that more routine cases can be dealt with without major input from employees. The committee welcomes the ongoing work on digitalisation in public administration and stresses the importance of continuously investigating, developing and creating good conditions for this digitalisation. At the same time, we would like to recall the individual's right to privacy and the importance of public authorities ensuring that this right is upheld. Madam President, I would like The committee proposes an announcement on a non-disclosure clause for the mismanagement of animals, so that health professionals and social services can provide data on animal welfare problems to the control authority concerned. The Riksdag therefore approves motions 2015/ 16:543 by Birgitta Ohlsson and Christina Örnebjär, Liberals, motion 5, and 2016/ 17:2289 by Thomas Finnborg, the Moderates. Thomas Finnborg proposes that a confidentiality-breaking rule be introduced in the Public Access and Confidentiality Act so that home care personnel can report animal cruelty. Unfortunately, there is a great risk that animals suffer from violence in close relationships. The connection between cruelty to animals and domestic violence is clear according to both Swedish and international research. Moreover, violence against the pet is often a way to control the abused person further, for example because he or she does not dare to leave the relationship out of concern for the animal. Voov, Veterinary concern for the victims of violence, was formed as a non-profit association in 2009 by veterinarians and veterinary students at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences in my municipality of residence Uppsala and is now a national association. The purpose of the organisation is to facilitate the break-up of the violent party for people who live with violence in a close relationship and are about to move to sheltered housing. In the event of violence in close relations with animals that are in distress, it is important that the social services, home services and other authorities that become aware of the problems can cooperate with animal welfare inspectors. The proposal of the animal welfare investigation included the inclusion of a non-confidential provision in the Public Access and Confidentiality Act, allowing healthcare professionals and social services to pass on data on animal welfare problems to the relevant control authority. The government should return to Parliament as soon as possible with such a proposal. Madam President, I would like The Moderates reserve the right to reject the exercise Digitalization in public administration, 2015/ 16:3074 by Anna Kinberg Batra and others, Moderates, motion 21. Modern technology and innovations can bring great opportunities for both users and employees in schools, healthcare and care. In the welfare sector, there are areas where new technologies are rapidly introduced and used. In general, the welfare sector does not make sufficient use of this technology. If IT and the opportunities for digitalisation are taken better into account in the welfare system, there are great opportunities to improve quality and increase accessibility and equivalence, while at the same time we share more well-being for tax money. This is important for a number of reasons, not least in view of demographic developments. We therefore believe that the government should ensure that the legislation is consistent with digitalisation, while taking into account the personal integrity of individuals.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-511	Madam President, I would like In this report, the Swedish Democrats have a series of proposals aimed at strengthening personal integrity. They may, in particular, aim to raise public awareness of cyber security and how to strengthen their own cyber security and privacy awareness on a personal level. Unfortunately, the committee has chosen to reject these proposals. We have therefore reservations about the committee's position on a number of points, but, as is customary, I intend to support only a few reservations – Nos 1 and 3. Madam President, I would like Developments in the IT area over the past 20 years have brought new opportunities but also a lot of problems, such as increased mapping of us users. The mapping takes place not infrequently so that companies can, for example, send targeted advertisements for products and services, which we hope from the survey that we are keen to buy. Of course, the survey does not just stop at ads but is used on a much larger scale than that. Known software that most of us use in our computers and known operating systems maps us users. They map the public – and very often at a nastyly detailed level. When services are marketed for free, Madam President, it is often we customers who are the commodity itself. Then it is not money but our personal information we pay with, and thus our integrity. Should a politician in the 80's have demanded of all the citizens of society that during all hours of the day we carry with us an eight-pound radio transmitter around our neck so that not only the state power but also less accurate actors could control where we were and what we did, 24 hours a day, most would probably have thought the politician was crazy. Had the same politicians also demanded that all the information we were looking for and everything we read should be registered, the political career of the person concerned would probably have been very short. Today, our society, unfortunately, looks very much like that. Mobile operators, telephone manufacturers and, in some cases, their partners also know where we are during all hours of the day. Search engines companies, without mentioning names, know what information we are looking for, what interests we have, where we are and when we look for the information. They also know who we chat and talk to online. Madam President, I would like During a seminar, a well-informed person told me and the other audience about a company in China that made money from collecting information that could then be sold to the one who paid the highest price. Each person who was registered was in the register with a special ID number, and for each person there were over 7 million different variables. Such a survey would probably be the most authoritarian dictatorship green with envy. Although the company in question did not have our names in plain text in its database but rather a unique ID number, it is not difficult to figure out, using the 7 million different variables, which names were hidden behind the unique ID numbers. During a review in Dagens Nyheter some time ago it was also noted that several municipalities, county councils and regions – consciously or unconsciously – collaborated with foreign companies whose primary purpose is to map the users, our surfing patterns and our interests. A further time ago it was noted that people all over the world with a certain type of router – a common one of a well-known and well-established brand – risked all their private files due to a large security hole. Thus, the hard drives were basically open to the public, which, through a few very simple keystrokes and reading some simple guides online, could quickly access, access, delete and change the private content. I could use all my time in the speaker's chair just to list examples. That would not, however, be very helpful, as I am convinced that the vast majority of people both inside and outside Parliament's premises are of course aware that the survey that is taking place today is very comprehensive. It runs 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Madam President, I would like Not everything is dark – there are practical possibilities to avoid or at least significantly reduce the risk of being mapped and the extent of this. How do you do it? Articles, tips and guides on how internet users should proceed in order to reduce the intrusion into privacy and to protect themselves from being mapped and how internet users should think about security in order to avoid being exposed to, for example, other people accessing their private files. Unfortunately, these forums and journals are not something that the general public reads and sees. When the big newspapers, usually several months later, publish the news, the damage has already been done for a long time – as in the case of routers, where the security hole was huge. In Sweden alone, thousands of people had probably already been affected. In our opinion, developments have gone so far that cyber security and personal privacy on the Internet and in our computers must become a national issue. It must be a matter of greater importance than it has until now. Madam President, I would like Our concrete proposal is that the Swedish Data Protection Authority, which is already working on these issues, should start and operate a national portal, where both alarm reports and simple guides can be gathered in one place. These guides were able to inform in a simple and clear way how to step-by-step strengthen your own privacy and cyber security. For example, such guides could apply to how to use encryption, how to block trackers in your browser and how to prevent the operating system that you have on your computer to save and collect highly privacy sensitive information. These are therefore very concrete and, above all, effective tips. Such a portal would address the general public directly, and the public would also have some confidence in the information published there, unlike the information currently available on the more shady parts of the Internet. Madam President, I would like The second of our exercises that I want to inform you about is about quality tools for websites. The exercise is basically not ours, but we have a reservation in connection with it. In the light of what I have just described, there is every reason why the websites that, after all, take our privacy very seriously in any way are rewarded. In our opinion, the government should commission the Swedish Data Protection Authority to develop and develop this tool for Internet services in relation to personal privacy. There are already similar tools in other countries, and Sweden has traditionally been at the forefront in leading and driving IT development. Our Constitution, Madam President, states that everyone is protected against the general public from significant breaches of privacy if this happens without consent and involves monitoring or mapping the individual's personal circumstances. Madam President, I would like It is my opinion that we should now also live up to this.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-534	Madam President, I would like The themes raised in the title of the report in question – that is, public access, confidentiality and integrity – are fundamental to the maintenance and development of an open, free and democratic society. For the Left Party, it is a guideline that all people have the right to a broad private sphere that is protected on a practical and principled basis. This means, for example, that different forms of monitoring and registration should be rejected when the risks of abuse are in the long term greater than the benefits that can be claimed to exist at first sight. This means that authorities and societal functions that manage trust from individual citizens in a variety of more or less vulnerable situations should not easily manage this trust. This too has both a fundamental value in the moment and a long-term value in maintaining trust and freedom in society as such. These values are broader than the relationship between state and citizen. It also means that the wide-ranging freedom of expression given to citizens in relation to the public must be watched very carefully, even when the results in individual cases and at first sight may seem embarrassing. Madam President, I would like In our society, the greatest threats to these fundamental principles in recent decades have come through various references to the need to combat certain types of terrorism and otherwise in connection with what has come to be called episodes of moral panic in literature, i.e. when individual extreme events provoke more or less justified indignation that passes into demands for changes to laws and regulations in such a way that the result is disproportionate and perhaps directly counterproductive in terms of restrictions on different rights and freedoms. Unfortunately, the fact that the protection of personal integrity and other principles of the rule of law is being given way to calls for tougher action is something that we have had to get used to recently. What is perceived there and then as abstract and long-term may find it difficult to assert itself against what appears to be acute and robust in an excited political debate. It is therefore important to be able to recall such fundamentals also on other occasions than when they are placed under direct threat, for example today. Madam President, I would like I say this as a longer introduction, because it is not in this report, which deals with a number of motion requests from the general period of exercise, that the most burning and topical issues of public access, confidentiality and integrity are up for debate. These are issues that come up in other processes, not least those relating to what I mentioned earlier, in legislative packages to combat terrorist threats, on issues of regulation of conditions on the Internet and partly also in relation to asylum policy. Unfortunately, the Left Party has not rarely been left relatively alone in parliamentary contexts as regards the protection of important principles of freedom. The report contains a number of minor proposals for consideration. They are rejected in most cases by reference to a wide range of ongoing investigations, which is essentially reasonable. The report mentions, among other things, the so-called Privacy Committee, which will produce its final report in June. Furthermore, there is the question of data storage. There, the Left Party has for many years fought against the far-reaching and problematic integrity aspects of storing a large amount of traffic data. Now even the European Court of Justice has come to the conclusion that the storage imposed on service providers is very intrusive and, in several ways, clashes with fundamental legal principles. The government has had to set up an investigation to deal with the legal situation, and we will have to wait and see what happens there. In this context, one can also mention what the Left Party and the government parties agreed upon after the elections, namely to act to strengthen the protection of communications in publicly funded private activities. A bill on health care, school and care has already been submitted to the Riksdag and approved. The work with other publicly funded activities is in the investigation phase. We also expect the government to come back with proposals to restrict the excessive possibility that employers today have to extract from the register of charges in connection with recruitment procedures. I mentioned this to mention a few examples. Madam President, I would like Reference to ongoing investigative work is also the explanation of two of the Left Party's reservations in this report. The committee has chosen to support announcements on the one hand concerning a demand for the role of information technology in promoting democracy and on the other hand on a request for rules of confidentiality in the event of animal neglect. In both cases, there are proposals that are either under investigation or under preparation. There are laudable moves in the motions raised by the committee, and it is not because of opposition in substance that we in the Left Party have not wanted to endorse the committee's decision. However, we find it a little strange, especially in a committee such as the Constitutional Committee, to make new announcements when there is every reason to await the outcome of initiatives already taken in these particular areas. More factual positions may follow. Earlier in the preparation process we have had the support of other parties, but we have chosen to maintain our position of principle even when that relationship has changed. However, one point on which there is a need for a position on the substance is the issue of non-disclosure in State employment aid. There are very large sums of money paid annually by the public to private companies in the form of various types of employment aid. It is over a five-year period of over SEK 75 billion. Employment support is often an effective way of helping people to be on the regular labour market, and that is something that benefits both the individual and the national economy. But we also know that there is sometimes an abuse on the part of certain companies. Today, information on which companies have benefited from these subsidies and how much money they have received is classified according to business interests. The current regime therefore makes it difficult for authorities and journalists to examine how wage subsidies are used. Public transparency in the use of tax funds should outweigh the alleged business interests of entrepreneurs, and the need for transparency and transparency is high. We would therefore like to see an announcement to enable public authorities and the media to better examine which companies receive government wage subsidies, while ensuring the protection of individual privacy. That is why, Madam President, I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of Amendment No 7.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-553	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that, of course, I support all the L reservations and the common alliance reservations, but I only call for the winning approval of reservations 2 and 10 for the time being. The powers of the public authority vis-à-vis the individual must never extend beyond what is necessary and justifiable to carry out the common tasks. The individual's ability to assert himself against the state is about the equal rights and freedoms of every person and about limiting the claims for power of the state powers. Public power should simply always be viewed with healthy vigilance and scepticism. Integrity is an essential condition for exploiting the opportunities of democracy. A state that lacks or does not respect the concept of integrity to its citizens is, in fact, a totalitarian state. That is why the report we are now debating is of such fundamental importance. The form of government states that the ideas of democracy should guide all areas of society and safeguard the private and family life of the individual. Everyone is protected against the general public from significant breaches of personal privacy, if this occurs without consent and involves monitoring or mapping the individual's personal circumstances. Limitations may be made in this respect only for purposes which are acceptable in a democratic society. There is a broad consensus on this. Yet there are both direct transgressions and incidents that can be regarded by the individual as transgressions. This is where we make slightly different balances within the different parties. That is why, today, I would like to highlight two particular reservations that the Liberals have made in this report. As consumers, we are making more and more purchases online, and online shopping brings great benefits to consumers. But online purchases also mean that we give away data about ourselves and our consumption patterns – data that is a highly sought-after information for companies. Most of us do not have a chance to review what information is stored and how it is disseminated. In many cases, it is also direct requirements to be able to carry out the purchase that we give away data. Companies need to be able to save information about their customers, and we are fully aware of this. However, there is a need for greater protection as regards the type of data that may be stored and how long they may be stored without the consumer's consent. Consumers also need to be given the opportunity to know which data are stored and to have them deleted. The Liberals therefore believe that Sweden can take the lead in strengthening consumer privacy protection. Sweden should also actively work towards a functioning European regulatory environment. Another issue raised by the Liberals is the question of a modern, unified privacy authority. The Data Protection Authority should be replaced by a privacy inspection which should have a general mandate to monitor how the regulatory framework for the protection of privacy is taken into account in the work of the Authority and have an overall role as a licensing authority for privacy-sensitive processing of personal data. A first step in this direction is the proposal for an expanded mandate for the Swedish Data Protection Authority, which was presented in the Privacy Committee's interim report. The Liberals also believe that the government should return in an annual letter to the Riksdag with an account of developments in the protection of personal privacy, both the legal conditions for privacy protection and the overall development of the use of various information technologies that affect the privacy of the individual. Let me conclude by saying that I am largely in agreement with what my moderate colleague in committee said. I, too, am pleased with the two announcements, supported by a broadly unanimous constitutional committee, of the rules on non-disclosure in the case of the neglect of animals, which, among others, my liberal colleagues, Birgitta Ohlsson and Christina Örnebjär, have been exercising. These are announcements which, of course, are good for animals but also particularly good for women who live in violent relationships, because unfortunately, men who abuse their own and also often, unfortunately, abuse the animals of the home. In this way, perhaps we can come to the rescue of animals, women and children a little faster, and that is a good thing. We hope that the government will urgently come back with a concrete action plan to get this in place.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-564	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3, Quality tools for websites. Today, the Constitutional Committee is debating public access, confidentiality and integrity. There are several really interesting things. There are two announcements that I would like to highlight in which the committee broadly agrees on a non-confidential provision in the case of animal neglect, so that health professionals and social services can pass on data on animal welfare problems to the relevant control authority. That's excellent. Furthermore, we propose a declaration on information technology and democracy in the sense that the government should take steps to exploit the potential of information technology in order to promote democracy. This too is wholeheartedly supported by the Christian Democrats. When it comes to integrity, I, friends, want to take you to the schoolyard where we once were. There's a bunch of boys and girls around a couple who have flown in their hair and their faces fighting. It's one bloody blast after another. Then some responsible teacher comes along and takes them aside. They get to talk out and get through what it was that made them fight. Or it could be someone in the middle of the schoolyard laying the trapeze, perhaps for a girl called an ugly word. We have painful memories of this, at least I, but it has become so much worse. According to Friend's online report 2016, every three 10 - 16-year-olds have been subjected to violations, not on the school yard, but on the Internet with as much scope as the school yard that you and I went to. And it stays much longer than the bruises from that fight... maybe forever. Worst hit are the girls. 37 percent feel that they have at some point been violated online. For the boys, the figure is 27%. Girls are also more vulnerable to online bullying. 8 percent of girls and 5 percent of boys have been bullied over the past year by mobile, computer or tablet. This corresponds to about one to two people in each class. It's so much worse now than it was when we went to school, because the range and verbal beats reach so much deeper. One third of girls and a quarter of boys have been sexually harassed via mobile, tablet or computer. The very time when we explore who we are in relation to each other and to the opposite sex it hurts so much and is so destructive with sexual harassment. There are big differences in how girls and boys use the Internet. While girls devote much more time to social media, surveys show that boys spend much more time playing and file sharing. Girls also appear to be more exposed to sexual risks online, and girls feel more violated than boys. As I said, girls are over-represented both as victims and perpetrators of cyber bullying. The online bullying against children and young people must be stopped. An important part of this work is that we, who are currently decision-makers and adults in general and parents in particular, become more present in children's lives and take the responsibility we have to take. The role of adults in communicating what is acceptable behaviour both in real life and in the life they live online is fundamental. Children and young people need to understand that digital desecration words hurt as much as those pronounced with lips and tongue. There must be more to be done to tackle the problems. The Christian Democrats believe that the Government should commission the Swedish Data Protection Authority to develop a quality tool for sites with high privacy standards and consider whether a quality tool for internet services should be developed in relation to personal privacy. There is such a thing on threste.com that involves the labelling of sites with high privacy standards. This would be a way of rewarding those sites and services that work consciously against online violations. But, of course, it is not the only measure. A full battery of measures is needed. The Christian Democrats also want to increase the grant to the Swedish Data Protection Authority to strengthen the work against e.g. online hate speech. We need to take cybercrime seriously. So many young fathers are hurt and subjected without the guilty ever having to worry about being discovered and punished. It doesn't make sense. We need legislation that protects victims and preventive measures that lead to fewer net violations.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-580	Mr President, I would like to The principle of public access is a fundamental principle for Sweden and our governance. It has helped to build our country strong and successful. The principle means, among other things, that the activities of the government and other authorities should be transparent as far as possible. Publicity and the media should be able to access information on various issues regardless of what the public sector itself chooses to inform about. Publicity and transparency are the cornerstones of democracy. It is necessary for the accountability of us politically elected representatives and for a well-functioning administration. The Swedish principle of public access is well known far beyond the borders of our country. It has inspired others in their work for greater transparency. We'll be proud of that and take care of it. Mr President, I would like to Secrecy rules also play an important role in society. This could, for example, be about protecting individual citizens, that is, the integrity of the individual. It can also be a matter of national security or of effectively preventing and prosecuting crime and crime. Thus, issues of public access and confidentiality are of fundamental importance for our democracy and for our country. These are therefore issues where broad political majorities are valuable. It is important that we agree on the foundations of our democracy. That is why we Social Democrats welcome the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the KU15. It reflects the broad political consensus we have on many of these issues, and I call for the committee's proposal to be approved. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the other parties for their good discussions and discussions in committee. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats want a zero vision of men's violence against women. According to the Crime Prevention Council, housing is the most common crime scene when women are subjected to assault. Imagine the horror that the home is dangerous. Men's violence against women is a plague that plagues our country. It has to stop. We need to come forward with various new proposals to overcome this. Such a proposal can be found in exercise 543 by Birgitta Ohlsson and Christina Örnebjär, both from the Liberals, to introduce a confidentiality-breaking rule in the Public Access and Confidentiality Act so that health professionals and social services can provide data on animal welfare problems to the control authority. Today it is not allowed because of the confidentiality rules. As stated in this exercise and in another Moderate, domestic violence often contributes to the further control of an abused woman, for example because she does not dare to leave the relationship out of concern for the animal. In such situations, it is important that the social services and other authorities who become aware of the problems can contact and cooperate with animal welfare inspectors. This is of course also important from an animal welfare perspective. As noted in the exercise, animals often suffer in relationships where a man inflicts violence on a woman. The motionaries' proposal is in line with the Animal Protection Investigation, which was submitted to the Reinfeldt Government as early as November 2011. The investigation proposed the introduction of a non-disclosure clause. The government at the time did not proceed with this. However, the proposals are currently being prepared in the Government Office, and the current S-MP government has announced that it intends to submit an animal welfare bill to Parliament this year, 2017. Then it is good that we have such a broad, cross-block majority on this important issue, which is being communicated to the government. Mr President, I would like to Another issue raised in the report is information technology, democracy and the digitisation of public administration. The government has initiated extensive work in this area. For example, it is about the creation of the portal öppnadata.se and that digitalisation issues since last year are part of government policy, which allows for more effective governance by the state. This will help more parts of the Swedish Government to make their systems more accessible to citizens electronically. We are in favour of this but would like, as the report says and as colleagues have said earlier, to recall the individual's right to privacy and the importance of public authorities ensuring that this right is upheld. A positive effect of the government's extensive digitalisation work is that more of the citizens' routine cases with public authorities will be simplified when they can be managed with the help of the technology. However, it is very important that those citizens who want personal service in their contact with authorities should be guaranteed this. Not everyone wants or can resolve their contacts with authorities by email or via apps or other digital tools, and this can apply to people of different ages. It is therefore of the utmost importance that authorities can guarantee personal service to those who so desire. We Social Democrats are pleased that the committee emphasises this in the report. The authorities are for the citizens. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to thank the committee colleges once again for the discussions in committee and repeat that I am in favour of the committee's proposal.
i-CjJpnLeDKjh1NAbEaqZD5P	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the Constitutional Committee's report No 15 Publicity, confidentiality and integrity. It is a motion report with 44 motions from autumn and last autumn's general exercise time. Many speakers have highlighted the fundamental principles of Sweden's view of openness and democracy. Our communication and information retrieval have increasingly moved from printed media to the network. It is both faster and easier to search and go back to information because it remains longer. In line with this, a lot of other things happen. The development leads to tools for collecting large amounts of data, big data. You also have cameras that follow most of what we do in our everyday lives, and you have tools to follow what we buy, what we search for and other things. All the smart tools available to facilitate our everyday lives can also be used to map our lives and collect large amounts of information about us. It can also be used for violations or to launch infringement campaigns. Others here have believed that it can also be used to threaten. It's probably pretty tough for a lot of us. Almost everyone – and even those who are really interested – needs to read just to follow the extensive investigations that are going on right now and the big changes. We need a framework and better regulation to protect ourselves and our online privacy. The biggest change that is under way is the General Data Protection Regulation, which will enter into force on 25 May 2018, i.e. in one year's time. It is an EU legislation that is directly introduced into Swedish law. The General Data Protection Regulation will replace, among other things, the Personal Data Act, PUL. It will change camera surveillance legislation and affect virtually everyone who handles personal data. One of the changes is the right for the data subject to have their personal data deleted and to be forgotten – the right to be satisfied. More stringent sanctions are also introduced. The periodic penalty payments that can be imposed if you don't behave are really high. In order for the Swedish Data Protection Authority to be able to prepare themselves, the spring bill has received extra funding. This is something that we have every reason to come back to later in the spring when we are debating the budget. One of the more extensive investigations in this area is the Privacy Committee, which submitted its survey report How is personal integrity? About a year ago. The investigation is now in its final stage and will present its proposals in June. A number of other different investigations have also been carried out. They're looking at crime, camera surveillance, data storage, and more. They also review this with who should be responsible for privacy. Many of these investigations are now being prepared at the Ministry and are in the process of becoming legislation. For this reason, we refer many of the motions for motions for resolutions to numerous investigations and to the ongoing legislative work. Like many others, there are two announcements. The first concerns the potential of information technology that can be used to promote democracy. That's great. The second announcement I was going to say something more about. This concerns a non-confidential provision on the mismanagement of animals, so that healthcare professionals and social services can pass on data on animal welfare problems to the control authority concerned. This is a very important issue. Not at all unusual is the abuser of a woman also using violence against the pet, sometimes to react, sometimes to threaten the woman. Nor is it unusual for women to be afraid to leave the violent relationship because they are worried about the animal. Earlier in the debate, Marta Obminska was in the volunteer and fantastic non-profit organization Vov who can help with sheltered housing also for animals that are often not allowed to stay on other shelters of allergic birds. You can be referred to by social services, but then they need to know that there is such a need. It is therefore a good thing that we in committee are proposing this announcement. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-UgNNivWW9c2VMoUy5uHnoS	Mr President, I would like to We in the Constitutional Committee have dealt with some forty requests for motion from the general period of exercise concerning issues of public access, confidentiality and integrity. Of course, I am grateful that we alliance activists have been supported in the KU for an announcement that the opportunities of information technology should be used to promote democracy. As regards personal privacy protection for individuals, the Parliamentary Privacy Committee has been working since 2014. It shall, from an individual perspective, identify and analyse both actual and potential risks in the event of breaches of personal privacy. These are risks associated with the use of information technology, both in private and in public activities. As Agneta Börjesson has already mentioned, in June last year the Privacy Committee handed over the report on privacy. The Committee proposes that every year the Government submit a letter to the Riksdag on developments in privacy, information technology and the legal protection of privacy. In its interim report, the Privacy Committee highlights, among other things, the risk of privacy breaches in camera surveillance, eGovernment within and between authorities and the further use of public information. When it comes to public information, there are criminal convictions published and used commercially. Camera surveillance has been increasingly used to prevent and clear crime. As I understand it, camera surveillance in public places is accepted by most, if it is done in such a way that recorded material is automatically deleted after a certain period of time, unless something has happened at the location of the recording that has caused a crime suspicion. The Privacy Committee shall submit its final report by 1 June at the latest, i.e. in less than a month's time. After the government's consideration of the proposals, we are likely to continue working in the KU on these important privacy issues. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the Constitutional Committee's report on public access, confidentiality and integrity.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-623	Mr President, I would like to This will be a very brief speech. I will just clear up the confusion that arose about the reservations of the Swedish democrats. The reservations that the Swedish Democrats are calling for are, of course, only our reservations, and they are therefore reservations 1 and 3.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-624	Mr President, I would like to In the Constitutional Committee's report No 16 we deal with a number of motions raised during the Parliamentary Session dealing with our five minorities. Since 2009, we have a minority policy with five recognised minorities in Sweden. This is a work under constant development. We look at how to develop opportunities for influence and participation, opportunities for language and the preservation of language and culture. What we are discussing is a number of motions that have been brought to the Constitutional Committee by individual Members, different party constellations and individual parties. Mr President, I would like to We are largely in agreement, but there are also divergent opinions from the alliance parties together and from the other parties separately as to which work is prioritised in minority policy. The report contains, among other things, an almost unanimous announcement to the government to review the question of whether we should also bring Finnish Swedes to the five minorities that exist today. The issue has been up for discussion in the Constitutional Committee for a number of years, and the vast majority of us feel that the time has ripened to look at the issue and to conduct an inquiry into the matter. The International Convention on what is to be regarded as a minority or not covers a wide range of criteria. In Sweden, we have chosen above all to put the emphasis on preserving the language. This is also what characterises Swedish minority policy. However, as time goes on, in the municipalities, i.e. administrative areas, which have assumed the responsibility of having a special job for minorities in their area, many other issues have emerged, including culture as a minority guardian. Based on a few of the motions raised by individual members, including Saila Quicklund from the Moderates and Kerstin Lundgren from the Center Party, and based on what is stated in them, we have taken a stand that it is time also to look at the issue of the Finnish Swedes. It is not a question of including such work in the ongoing investigation that the government has set up and which is soon to be completed, but it is probably necessary for a special investigation to look at the issue. Seven of the eight parties in Parliament agree on this. Mr President, I would like to What we may not agree on, however, concerns the parts dealing with Roma and Jews and, for the Moderates, how the municipalities, the administrative areas, deal with their work. I want to start at that end and discuss the work around the Swedish Roma. They are citizens and have been here for many centuries, namely 500 years. In the broad layers of citizens, it is still not known what abuses have taken place against this ethnic group over the centuries. Mr President, this is about entry bans and sterilisation. These are obstacles to where to live, for schooling and for maternal health care. A number of abuses have taken place against the Roma minority in Sweden, which we shall bow our heads in shame before. At the same time, of course, we can affirm and feel proud of the culture that we actually have within our borders. But there are a number of areas of improvement, not least as regards the exclusion that exists in many parts of Roma culture. This applies, in particular, to jobs and training, and in particular to young people. Here too, it is about work and language. We in the Alliance want to highlight continued visibility and gender equality issues, both for women within the group and for the opportunities of young people and men. This involves improved consultation between the organisations dealing with the issues today and the government and its representatives, including representativeness. A number of meetings and consultations take place both individually with the minorities and jointly. There is a clear and explicit desire and demand from the Roma and their umbrella organisation that they do not feel involved in relation to those who are supposed to represent the Roma minority in this work. They feel that it is rather the same people that the government consults with, and these may not have the support of the minority that would actually be desirable. As far as consultation is concerned, I can cite an example from today's date. While we are sitting here, there is a consultation in the Government Office with minorities on a number of different issues, including the current investigation. On 26 April, just before the election castle, the summons to this consultation expired a week before it was due to take place. This is not acceptable in order to consult on a major investigation with member associations and representatives. Just being able to solve points of speech or travel opportunities for a consultation requires time. There is a great reason why we in the alliance parties put our finger on this. This is unacceptable. In order to create a platform for Roma culture, we also propose a Roma language and cultural institution. The fact that everyone else is doing what is to be done is also something that has been said by the Roma minority. You want the situation for yourself. Who should point to what I as rum should do? I guess I know that better myself. Mr President, I would like to Let me move on to another minority in the country, namely the Jewish. I do not think it has escaped any of us what has happened in recent years and most recently in Umeå, when it comes to threats and violence against Jewish representatives and Jews – in our country in 2017! Security around synagogues and Jewish schools has deteriorated considerably and has made it so mild that the congregation up in Umeå has seen itself forced to close down its operations. We write 2017– I repeat this. I bow my head in shame because we have such a development in our country. This is not acceptable either. This needs to be tightened up. We need to have improved dialogue on both this and valuation issues. It is not long since in the 20th century we had pogroms, Jewish persecutions and extinctions. We will not end up there again, but we see a strongly emerging anti-Semitism in our country as well. Mr President, I would like to A little over a year ago, me and my colleague Hans Ekström were down in Berlin at an international conference on anti-Semitism. I became pale – and I think Hans Ekström did – when we got a talk about the anti-Semitism that spreads around Europe. And it is not just a question of young people and men bringing conflicts from the Middle East, it is a question of established citizens in European countries. These are highly educated people who express themselves in a completely unacceptable way. Haven't we learned anything from history? Should we not safeguard citizens' equal rights and security in the country? We have freedom of religion in this country. Not being able to carry a cross, a kippa or anything else to express one's religiosity is unacceptable. There is definitely a need for deeper work on this. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to mention the Moderates' additions to the work on administrative areas and the municipalities that have taken on the work to deal with minority issues. For this, municipalities receive a state grant to do cultural activities, provide preschool and care for the elderly, and so on in minority languages. But both during KU's travels and in talks that we have had around the country, we have found that not all municipalities live up to their commitments. This has also been demonstrated by the investigation. We Moderates think that if you don't, you might not get this state contribution to the full. We want to see sanctions, perhaps with a reduced or withdrawn contribution for those who are not doing well. Surely it must be some order of the croft! Mr President, I would like to I support reservations 3, 5 and 6.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-643	Mr President, I would like to We in the Swedish Democrats support all our reservations, but for time to come, and this will probably be needed today, I only call for reservations 2 and 11. Very well! There has been talk of the equal value of all people today, and that is, of course, right and proper. Unlike the other parties, however, the Swedish Democrats believe that this must actually mean something too. We therefore expect all citizens to have the same rights and obligations to the public during the various events of life. This means that we are opposed to any form of unfair discrimination on the basis of the individual's personal characteristics and/ or preferences. This therefore applies to all forms of discrimination, whether positive or negative. Therefore, neither the constitution nor any other law needs to list any special protective grounds. Nor should the Constitution provide that the possibilities for certain groups to maintain and develop their own cultural or community life should be promoted in particular. It is primarily up to each individual and his group to express and defend their interests as much as possible on the same terms and conditions as all others. It is therefore self-evident that everyone is free to choose the language, culture or religion they want, as long as this is not in danger of violating any law or restricting the rights and freedoms of any other citizen. At the same time, Sweden is a unitary state with its own and unique combination and composition of fundamental values and common starting points. For a cohesive and secure society to prevail, our common resources and forces must be used for the common good, not for the benefit of individual groups that are currently receiving the favor of society. Today, having a variety of conditions and measures in relation to different personal characteristics and preferences leads to discretion as to who can be regarded as deserving of special support or as more protective than others. In other words, there is a risk of getting into an Orwellian one; everyone is equal, but some are more equal than others. Current order tends to lead to more people being excluded than included. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, the Swedish Democrats, of course, recognise and respect the special status of our five national minorities, with the support of international conventions. The Swedish state has, and should continue to have, certain specific obligations towards these particular groups. The practical application of these obligations is, of course, different between the countries which have acceded to the respective Conventions depending on the specific conditions prevailing within each country. In Sweden there should be no significant statutory discrimination or negative difference before the law. Furthermore, the Swedish social order is characterised by far-reaching decentralisation, not least with regard to the municipal self-government and the legitimate interests that the conventions aim to safeguard regarding, among other things, health care, school and care in the national minority languages. That is why there are good opportunities, but also an important local democratic aspect, in that the municipalities and county councils where there are one or more national minority interests can drive development in these areas in the desired direction, of course by voting for parties representing the interests of minorities on the one hand and having the right to tax in order to enforce promised commitments on the other. Therefore, the responsibility of the state should also be limited to ensuring, under the current circumstances, that there is, for example, education in minority languages at state higher education institutions and to employ to some extent minority language speakers to various county boards and state authorities, or interpreters who can assist in current authority contacts. In these areas and in terms of employment in the municipalities concerned, it can of course be useful for a job seeker to be able to communicate in one or more of the minority languages. In addition, appropriate state authorities may have specific cultural and association funds, which are earmarked to strengthen and develop national minorities. However, the government should not intervene any more. The equality of the rule of law before the law should prevail, so that the power to administer and develop its own cultural specificity is left to the greatest possible extent to those who are primarily concerned. It follows that we are opposed to this House's efforts to expand an already unnecessarily large and cumbersome minority policy. Mr President, I would like to The committee is today sending an announcement to the government to investigate whether the Swedish Swedes could also become a Swedish minority. The Swedish Democrats see the Finnish-Swedish minority as part of the Swedish nation. Instead of making them a national minority, however, we believe that the Institute for Languages and People's Memories should work to preserve and bring to life the Finnish cultural heritage. In principle, the same should also apply to the river valleys, which work particularly locally to preserve their language. Like the majority, we believe it is important that the river valley be preserved as part of the Swedish cultural heritage. We welcome the measures taken at both state and municipal level to make this possible.
i-HQDNSNg3ZEPzfBecYCpEGF	Mr President, I would like to We in the Constitutional Committee have dealt with 38 motions for motion from the general period of motion on minority issues. This year, like several years before, I myself have highlighted in the Constitutional Committee the movements that Kerstin Lundgren from the Center Party has left on the Finnish-Swedish population in Sweden. Two years ago, during the last preparation of the question in the KU, we concluded that the question of Finnish Swedes should be included when the government next sets up an inquiry into minority issues. The government appointed the report on a strengthened minority policy last year, but unfortunately without giving it instructions to investigate the Finnish-Swedish issue. In the motion submitted last October, Kerstin Lundgren proposed that the ongoing inquiry into national minorities should receive an additional directive. This study was, according to the motion, to examine the status of Finnish Swedes as a national minority in Sweden under the Council of Europe Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. According to the KU report, the Finnish Confederation of Swedish Nationalists in Sweden, Fris, has already raised the issue of the status of Finnish Swedes in a state inquiry into minority policy in 2006 in relation to the Framework Convention. In view of the fact that the Convention does not require a minority to have a mother tongue other than the majority population, Fris already argued that Swedish Finns should be recognised as a national minority group. It was a position that was also supported by representatives of the Swedish Finns. Both during the KU's preparation of the issue two years ago and this year, Fris has written to the Constitutional Committee with the same proposal on minority status. Since six months have passed since Kerstin Lundgren's motion was submitted, the investigation that Kerstin Lundgren wanted the government to give additional directives is now almost complete. That is why we in the KU have instead worked with and proposed that a new investigator should get the government's mandate to examine the issue of the status of the Finnish Swedes as a minority. I think it is unfortunate that the ongoing minority inquiry has not already investigated the issue, because then hopefully we could have had a positive proposal already on 15 June, in other words in just over a month's time, when the investigation is due to be completed. At the same time, however, I am very pleased that, in preparing the Finnish-Swedish question this year, we now have a clear majority in the Constitutional Committee for an announcement to the government about an investigation. Another issue included in the minority issues report concerns the status of the river valley. In a motion by Peter Helander from the Center Party, an announcement is requested that the river valley should be recognised as a minority and regional language in Sweden under the Treaty of the Council of Europe. Peter Helander points out that linguistic rights are a fundamental human right enshrined in the UN Convention on Human Rights and also enshrined in the Swedish Language Act. Children whose mother tongue is a river valley are now unable to receive school education in or in the river valley. The Constitutional Committee has stated in the report that in 2016 the US language organisation SIL International took a stand to classify the river valley as its own language and not as a dialect of Swedish. The Institute for Languages and Ancient Memories has the government's mission to bring about and disseminate knowledge of languages and dialects. The authority has approached the KU about its view of the river valley. The authority has noted that the municipality of Älvdalen has already decided in 2006 to work to ensure that the river valley is given official language status under the minority language convention. However, the authority believes that there is a need for an independent study of the attitude of the residents of Älvdalen municipality to recognition and to revitalize the river valley. The Association for the Conservation of the River Valley, Ulum Dalska, has, together with the Association for the Defence of Language at the handover to the KU of a petition, stated that there is a strong desire among the river valleys to preserve the language. The majority of the KU, to which I and the Center Party do not belong on this issue, have noted that the importance of the conservation of the river valley is strongly anchored among many river dates. However, the majority conclusion is that they are not prepared to take any initiative, and the movements on the conservation of the river valley are discouraged. In a reservation against the KU's decision, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats have called for the approval of Peter Helander's motion on the conservation of the river valley. We believe that the government should investigate the possibility of recognising the river valley as a minority and regional language in Sweden. Unfortunately, however, there is not even an investigation into the issue, which I, like my party colleague, Peter Helander, regret. Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of the committee's proposal in the KU report on minority issues, except in paragraph 8 on the status of the river valley in which I support the reservation of the Center Party and the Christian Democrats.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-662	Mr President, I would like to We are debating today the KU report on minority issues. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Left Party's Amendment No 8. The Sami are Sweden's only indigenous people and as such have a special position among Sweden's national minorities. In Sweden it has long been looked down on the traditional Sami way of life and the Sami culture. In history, the Sami have been used, among other things, for forced labour, forced displacements and restrictions on their opportunities for schooling and work, and have suffered from forced sterilisations. In 2007, the UN General Assembly adopted an indigenous declaration. This can be seen as a historic milestone in the fight for the recognition of indigenous human rights and fundamental freedoms. The emphasis of the declaration is on the right to self-determination and also includes wordings concerning indigenous peoples' right to own, use and control land, territories and natural resources. The right to self-determination, as expressed in the Declaration, includes the right of the Sami people to freely determine their economic, social and cultural development and to control and decide over their own natural resources. The declaration further underlines the right of the Sami people to strengthen their specific political, legal and economic institutions, including elected Sami parliaments and joint Sami parliamentary councils as well as traditional local economic and cultural structures such as Sami villages, reindeer grazing teams and maritime Sami communities. Sweden has had eight years to implement the UN's indigenous declaration. It is therefore a problem that Sweden, which is such a rich country, has not done this and cannot justify the Sami to take part in the human rights of the international community in relation to indigenous peoples. The UN Declaration of Indigenous Peoples should be implemented in Sweden as soon as possible.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-665	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by saying that I support all liberal reservations and common alliance reservations. However, I am in favour of winning approval for time only to reservations l, 3 and 5 and, of course, look forward to an investigation with the task of analysing whether Finnish Swedes should be recognised as a national minority in Sweden, according to the committee's announcement. The national minorities Sami, Swedish Finns, Roma, Jews and tornadoes have a long history in our country and have all been subjected to an assimilation policy that did not allow them to speak their language or practice their culture. This is the basis for the need for a specific policy for national minorities. The aim of minority policy is to provide protection, strengthen opportunities and influence and support minority languages. We have come a long way, but much remains to be done. In the Liberals' motion on minority rights, we report on the efforts we see very much in need, but I will focus here on two of my and Liberal heart issues. Sweden's history of Roma is dark. The first part of the 20th century was about pure racial ideology. In the second part of the 20th century, it was replaced by the surveys and monitoring of the welfare society. It is a surveillance that has stretched to date in a police register in Skåne. This state-sanctioned repression has led to great suffering for many years that still affect the Roma. There is still a huge gap of trust between many Roma and society's institutions. My party colleague Erik Ullenhag carried out an active work as a minister to highlight Sweden's Roma and their history. A White Paper on Roma abuse was produced during the 20th century. The White Paper is truly a very dark story that must be told again and again. That is why the government has a great responsibility to ensure that the White Paper is disseminated and that it is also made available in both English and Swedish. In addition, we launched a long-term Roma inclusion strategy where we said that young Roma by 2034 would not be discriminated against in any way. Whether you are rum or not, you have the same opportunities, something that we do not see today. This is a work that needs to be continued long-term and sustained, and rather than cutbacks, it is more ambitious increases that we need to see. In many cases it is poor European citizens we see begging in our streets and being exploited as a black labour force. Work against discrimination from Sweden must also be taken further into the EU. We see that a great deal of work needs to be done there. Roma are still not included as the normal population, including in Romania and Bulgaria. The Commission against anti-Ziganism has called on the government to ensure that the Ombudsman for Discrimination investigates complaints of discrimination against Roma to a greater extent than is currently the case in the courts. I can only agree. A language of its own is the key to both its history and its future. It is therefore positive that more and more municipalities in the administrative areas offer preschools and elderly care with a minority language profile. Since 1 July 2015, a national minority language should be available as a beginner's language in native language education. It is important to retain the five minority languages as living languages. By August at the latest, the government's special investigators will report on the need for measures to enable Sweden to live up to its own high ambitions and respond to the Council of Europe's criticism of Sweden as regards teaching in the national minority languages. The government decided last year to instruct a special investigator to review and analyse the law on national minorities and minority languages as well as related issues. In the directives, the Government states that the follow-up to minority policy has shown a continuous positive development, particularly in relation to the activities of local and state authorities. But it is also believed that the follow-up takes a picture of a recent and perhaps even backward development. The Liberals therefore believe that the government should consider the issue of stricter legislation in order to make clearer demands on the municipalities. Many times it is more about how the activities are organised and managed than about the need for more resources to be provided. Municipalities and county councils should be better able to take advantage of the language skills that often exist in the staff, and in the procurement of services and care, municipalities should also be better able to take into account the needs of national minorities. Mr President, I would like to My speaking time is almost up. Let me just take account of the speech made by my moderate colleague in the light of recent attacks on Jewish communities that we are seeing throughout our country: efforts have been made by both this government and by the Alliance Government, but the reality shows that more needs to be done and that measures need to be evaluated. I do not believe for a moment that the government really has any opinion other than those of us in the Alliance on the terrible hate crimes carried out in the name of anti-Semitism. For of this we may constantly tell, and it would be nice if we could do so with a united voice in the Swedish Parliament.
i-LA9kyaWQcHSRmZBZYr56p1	Mr President, I would like to I support reservations 3 and 5. Today, the Constitutional Committee is also dealing with minority issues. It is about all the groups that do not belong to the majority population. I'm going to highlight a few. The committee proposes an announcement that the government should set up an investigation to analyse whether Finnish Swedes should be recognised as a national minority in Sweden. It's a little special because they have Swedish as their native language but are still a uniform group. It is a group with a common history, and it is important that they do not just disappear into the majority society. Another group is the Roma or the Travellers, as they have also been called. They have now been in Sweden for over 500 years. The Roma, as well as the Travellers, are one of Sweden's five national minorities. We know that during much of the 20th century, Sweden's approach was characterised by racially characterized thinking. In its ultimate form, it was about the Roma not living in Sweden. As this slowly changed, community efforts were deployed to help the Roma – but without consultation with those affected by the measures. Discrimination and prejudice against Roma are part of Swedish reality. Many Roma also experience exclusion, and many Roma and travellers have living conditions that are much worse than the rest of the Swedish population. There is a need for continued efforts against anti-Ziganism, such as the form of discrimination in which Roma are discriminated against, and against discrimination at all. In this respect, the Equality Ombudsman can play an important role in combating discrimination against Roma and travellers. Schools can be central to the fight against various forms of intolerance, and school staff need support in tackling intolerance and prejudice. Society must, through its legal means, react forcefully to hate crimes. Let me go on to say something about anti-Semitism or, as they say in the Jewish congregation here in Stockholm, Jew hatred. It has moved from talking about anti-Semitism to talking about Jew hatred, for it is so pure and raw and explicit. I'm from Skåne. In Skåne you only have to come to Malmö to meet an environment where it is difficult and dangerous for someone who has a so-called typical Jewish look to walk on the streets. You definitely can't wear a dump in central Malmö without being harassed. It has also been documented in some TV program what you risk if you try to do so. But it's not just in Malmö. We heard on 3 April about how the Jewish association in Umeå was forced to close down. What, then, is this? Umeå is far away! It was groups on the far right and the far left that did not back up but, on the contrary, was the problem. The group leader of the Labour Party, a local Umeå Party, defended that the Jews were not even invited when the memory of Crystal Night in 1938 was due to be celebrated. This is terrible. That's how close it crawls. Nazism is entering and anti-Semitism and Jewish hatred with it. There are also other groups on other edges that are involved in making life difficult for the Jewish population. The destruction of 6 million Jews – the most extensive genocide humanity has seen – is the most extreme expression of anti-Semitic work and anti-Semitic notions. It is also a real social threat in Sweden today. The anti-Semitic acts of terrorism in France and Copenhagen in 2015 show that anti-Semitism is not just local, but is widespread across Europe and a factor for the Jewish population to count on. There is a threat picture that needs to be taken very seriously. Because of these anti-Semitic attitudes, people's ability to live in a life of security and dignity is limited. Jews here in Sweden are mocked and harassed on the open street because they wear Jewish characteristics such as the Kippan or the David Star. Security arrangements around Jewish synagogues and other institutions are reinforced because there is an aggravated threat. The number of anti-Semitic hate crimes reported to the police has, according to the statistics of the Council for Crime Prevention, tripled between 1997 and 2014. Anti-Semitism has certain features that distinguish it from most other forms of despicable xenophobia. One such feature is the notion that the Jews would be particularly influential as a group or that they would even secretly rule society. Such thoughts and ideas are widespread in our own society. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict is also used to spread or consolidate anti-Semitic attitudes. Swedish Jews are mocked and attacked because of the state of Israel's actions or are made responsible for decisions taken by the Israeli state. This is unacceptable. It is therefore of great importance that the government works to ensure that continued efforts are made to spread knowledge about anti-Semitism and the particular notions that are the very nutrition of anti-Semitism. It is also important that there is continuous work to spread knowledge about the persecution of Jews throughout history and up to our own days and that this work is carried out in a way that allows knowledge to reach all parts of the Swedish population regardless of background, attitudes, religion or history. Important efforts have been made to increase the safety of Jewish synagogues and other institutions, as well as at Jewish events and meeting places. It is important that the Government ensures that these efforts are evaluated and that the security situation is continuously monitored. No one should have to fear or worry that he or she wants to visit the synagogue, the Jewish school or any other Jewish institution. I believe that it is of the utmost importance that the government, within the framework of the national plan against racism and hate crime, should consider anti-Semitism as a particular form of xenophobia. Then there is also a need for work specifically aimed at anti-Semitism. This sounded serious, and it is serious. I will mention another matter that may seem to be curiosity but which is still important. We have a center party exercise where we highlight the river valley or valley, as it is called. In Älvdalen in Dalarna, in our own small Sweden, there is for a very long time a language called river valley, which I and the Center Party believe should be recognised as a minority or country language in Sweden. There has therefore been exercise in support of this. It has not won support before. Älvdalska is a very strange language. It is therefore a language of its own and not just a dialect such as northern Sweden, Stockholm and Bohuslän. Its roots go back to ancient Norse times, that is, more than 1,000 years ago. We think mainly of Icelandic when we talk about Old Norse, but language experts say that the river valley is even closer to Old Norse than Icelandic. It's very strange. The experts say that it is related to the ancient German woman, and then we are down at the time of Kristus's birth and the years before that. So it is a language remnant where some expressions for this language have survived for over 2,000 years. This is something fantastic – imagine that we have something like this on Swedish soil! There are 2,000 people who speak this language in a small municipality, Älvdalen, in Dalarna. If any generation, they'll be gone. With them, an ancient language disappears if we don't deploy resources. 2,000 is nothing in a population of 10 million. That is why this motion, which we Christian Democrats support, believes that the river valley should be regarded as a language of its own and that there are similarities with other small, endangered languages in the world. Ensuring a group's linguistic rights is a fundamental human right enshrined in the UN Convention on Human Rights. This is something the government should investigate.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-696	Mr President, I would like to I hope my veiled voice will not conceal the clarity of thought. I'm going to keep it short, though. Swedish minority policy has been developed and strengthened in recent decades. Our five national minorities have been given increased rights and enhanced protection. But minority policy needs to be further developed. We are still living in the shadow of the dream of the nationally homogeneous country that has never existed. Some of the national minorities have existed in our country since its founding and the others for centuries. They are a self-evident and inalienable part of what is Sweden. The history and background of national minorities make their situation and needs very different. The Roma, who have been in Sweden for over 500 years, have suffered from severe oppression and ill treatment into our time. The five Roma groups, of which the Travellers are one, must be helped to strengthen their civil societies. We see that we have great challenges before these groups have the same conditions as the majority population for a good life. Figures of unemployment, educational attainment, life expectancy and health status speak clearly. The Roma group is also very exposed to strong prejudices that exist in Swedish society. The Jewish group has existed in Sweden at least since the 1700s, when Gustav III, following his uncle Fredrik the Great, followed the principle: lass denn jeder Mann in seiner Fasson selig sein – let each one be blessed in his own way. The Jews are exposed to major security problems, and anti-Semitism is still living in our country. Society must with all its might dissociate itself from this. The Jews are exposed to both historical right-wing anti-Semitism and anti-Semitism rooted in the Muslim world. The Sami group, our indigenous people, is still living with the consequences of centuries of oppression affecting the right to language, land and culture. The Swedish Finnish group, which is part of the country since the country was born, has lived under strong assimilation pressure. Here, for example, there is a great need to enable the use of Finnish in school, preschool, health and long-term care. Because language is also lost because of assimilation pressure, there is a great need for revitalisation measures. Many of the exercises that have been initiated in the policy area concern matters that are being dealt with by an ongoing investigation led by Lennart Rohdin, who will soon be handed over to the Minister for Culture. We reject these because of this ongoing investigation. A specific issue that has come back and is not dealt with by the ongoing investigation concerns the position of the Finnish Swedes. About a quarter of Finnish immigrants to Sweden have historically been Swedish-speaking. They are a living part of the capital's life since Stockholm was founded. However, this group has become somewhat invisible and ends up between the chairs depending on the language, which is largely the same as that of the majority population, and is also regarded by many as part of the Swedish Finnish group. It can sometimes be seen in TV shows. I was watching a Swedish crime series that takes place in Kiruna. People who are going to break in Finnish are played by the Swedish-speaking neo-Swedish language. It becomes a bit strange and shows the unformation in Sweden when it comes to the Finnish-Swedish group. There is a great need to make the Finnish-Swedish group visible, and we therefore believe that there is a reason to investigate the position of the Finnish-Swedish people. I support the proposal contained in the KU report.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-709	Mr President, I would like to We are now dealing with KU16, Minority issues. It is a report with 38 requests for exercise from the general exercise period 2015 and 2016. Sweden has, as several speakers have mentioned, chosen to recognise Sami, tornadoes, Roma, Jews and Sverige Finns as national minorities and Sami, Meänkieli, Romani chib, Yiddish and Finnish as minority languages. This has been done with the findings of previous investigations and the international commitments and conventions that Sweden has signed as a basis. Several of the previous speakers have touched on the history of many of the abuses that have taken place in relation to the various minority groups. It is because of this history that it is important that we strengthen this work in the future. Further efforts will be needed to protect the already recognised minority languages and safeguard the rights of the already recognised national minorities. Therefore, the government has set up the investigation into a strengthened minority policy that is carrying out a review of the law on national minorities and minority languages and related issues. Just as many people have already discussed, this investigation is expected to be completed on June 15. In today's report, the committee proposes in a declaration that the government should set up an investigation to analyse whether Finnish Swedes should be recognised as a national minority in Sweden. We in the KU believe that there are certain reasons that can be cited for the Finnish Swedes to be regarded as a national minority. We therefore believe that the issue of the position of Finnish Swedes should be investigated. I think it is a good thing that we finally landed in the fact that this issue should not be added to the current investigation which Lennart Rohdin is conducting, not only because in practice it is almost already complete, but also because I think that the Finns are in a way different from other minorities by speaking the majority language to a large extent. Most of the rights granted to national minorities are linked to languages. The explanation for this is that the right to language is strongly linked to identity and culture, which is also reflected in the conventions that govern our work with minorities in Sweden. At the same time, it has emerged that more of the other rights could be looked at, such as consultation obligations in administrative areas. I am thinking, however, that this does not exclude the fact that other things could be done for the Finnish-Swedish minority already with the opportunities that exist today. You can look at things that can benefit Finnish-Swedish culture and develop Finnish-Swedish identity. Cultural diversity is important to enrich our country, including Finnish-Swedish cultural life, which has been long-term and has a close connection to Sweden. With this, I call for the proposal of the Constitutional Committee to be approved. I look forward to looking at the investigation in the future.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-718	Mr President, I would like to Members of the Constitutional Committee! Here you see a happy exerciser. After 12 years, I am grateful that the Constitutional Committee has now landed in an announcement proposed to Parliament. I hope we'll decide that in an hour. In 1999, we made the Framework Convention and the Minority Language Convention a part of our Sweden. We ratified them, but in doing so we allowed the language convention to play a special role in relation to the Swedish-Finnish group. What was said was that in order to obtain the status of a national minority, you must either have Finnish as your native language or be the descendant of someone who spoke Finnish. You don't need to know Finnish. The Framework Convention is broader and has a broader purpose than the Language Convention. It is about promoting the ability of national minorities to maintain and develop their culture and preserve the essential elements of their identity. Language is part of this but not the only one, although we made it the only one. We chose to split the Swedish-Finnish group into two. One gave us the status of a national minority, but the other was left out, despite the fact that they had exactly the same historical ties to Sweden and the other criteria were met. Since then we have had a number of investigations. The final report on the Finnish and South Sami languages pointed out that this issue had to be clarified. This was 2006, but nothing happened. Now we have another investigation where nothing is happening, even though, as I said, we have kept the discussion alive for a long time. However, I am happy today and hopeful for the future. The KU has now, in its wisdom, captured the essence of my exercise. I am pleased that there is a broad majority. I listened with pleasure to Per-Ingvar Johnsson and thank him for his work. I also listened to Mr Ekström's speech, which I also thought was positive when it came to pointing out the importance of trying to solve the split that we from the Swedish Parliament once committed. Here, hopefully, we can now have not only an announcement but also an investigation, regardless of the government, because there is such a broad consensus. We can produce an investigation that can clarify whether the Finnish-Swedish group should have its own national minority status or whether it should give the Swedish-Finnish group national minority status, regardless of language, as well as a number of other issues related to this. I'm happy for the investigation. I hope that it will be action-oriented and that in the next parliamentary term we can take decisions on this matter, for the whole of the split Swedish group. I thank the Constitutional Committee for listening to my many motions, which have now come to a positive end.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-726	Mr President, I would like to It is a small, slim report with some forty motion requests from 2015 and 2016 that everyone in one way or another deals with Parliament's forms of work. Several of the demands for exercise have been dealt with previously, and we use so-called simplified ways of working there. This includes, for example, how we should celebrate the introduction of democracy and universal and equal suffrage. There is a wide range of work going on both in the administration and in a working group chaired by the President, which includes all parties. There we will be paying attention for several years to our entry into a real democracy. Democracy, however, is something that must always be changed, managed and refined. Our work here in Parliament is very much governed by the parliamentary order, which was revised during the previous parliamentary term. We put a new one into effect on 1 January 2014. There was a great deal of work to be done, which is now being followed up in practice. Much of the work that takes place in this Chamber is handled, decided and led by the Speaker in consultation with the group leaders of the parliamentary parties, based on the decisions of the Riksdag Board and what is said in the Parliamentary Order. We also have a Council of Members with representatives of all parties. It is led by the Director of Parliament, and many practical issues are dealt with there. With this, I want to say that there are many clear situations and guidelines for how we as Members of Parliament should work. What is not very clearly regulated is how we work within our parties and party groups. This cannot be the meaning of a free country which has freedom of association in its constitutions. However, I can say that it is perhaps just good working methods and good democracy within the parties that are the prerequisites for the working environment and working environment throughout the Riksdag to feel right and correct. I think that the motions that have been written breathe this. In conclusion, Mr President, there are many ways in which Members of Parliament can influence our work, our working methods and, in part, our working environment and definitely our working environment. Writing motions on small issues may not be the most successful way to achieve results, but then there are the other paths that I have described in my small speech. That is why, Mr President, I call for the proposal of the Constitutional Committee to be approved and for all motions to be rejected.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-732	Mr President, I would like to As I said, the KU18 is about how Parliament works. It is a unanimous report. So there are no reservations, so there will be no real debate. In spite of the fact that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has decided to reject all motions for resolutions, I believe that the report deserves attention in this House. All public power is based, as you know, on the people, and the parliament is the people's main representative. Therefore, the parliamentary machinery must function well. As Members of Parliament, we have a duty to the democratic system and ultimately to the voters to ensure that the work of the Riksdag works properly. The parties play a central role in parliamentary work. Therefore, it may seem contradictory that the forms of work in the fortress of democracy have little or nothing to do with the internal lives of the parliamentary parties, which we heard Berit Högman develop. It is not said, therefore, that the parties lack the opportunity to influence the working methods of the Riksdag. In fact, there are quite a lot of such opportunities. It is up to each party's group leadership to present to the President comments and suggestions on how the work in Parliament can be made to function even more optimally for us Members – and ultimately for the benefit of democracy. Speaking of us Members, if I have not miscalculated, it was no more than 12 candidates who, in the last election, entered the Parliament solely because they had success in the personal elections. The very dominant majority of us Members elected to the Swedish Parliament is because or because, depending on how you want to see it, our parties, after probably a lot of consideration, have concluded that it was probably a good idea to place us here. So it can actually be said to be a little misleading to talk about Parliament's 349 members as directly elected representatives. Unfortunately, the majority of us are not. In fact, the inner life of the parties should not be at all a subject in a KU report on the workings of the Riksdag. The working forms of the Parliament lie on a different plane from the internal affairs. Mr President, I would like to As I said, all the requests in this report are rejected. This includes, for example, day care of Members of Parliament's dogs. Other claims include questions about whether the Riksdag should allow voting at a distance and whether the Swedish Parliament should have a word on the team regarding MEPs' parental leave. And we have the request for the EU flag – is it going to continue to hang in the Chamber? The Swedish Democrats do not think so, Mr President. They want the President to remove it, but the other parties in the KU do not think so. The EU flag was indeed placed in this House quite a long time ago, in 2009, before the Swedish Presidency of the European Union; that is a long time ago. However, the President has then left it hanging, and I think it is quite obvious that it is allowed to do so. In a referendum, the Swedish people have expressed their desire for Sweden to be part of the EU, to be part of the European Union, and therefore it would be disrespectful to the Swedish people's will to remove the EU flag from Parliament's Chamber. To conclude, Mr President, I note that the members of the Swedish Parliament seem to be largely at peace with their working methods. Otherwise, it is difficult to interpret this unanimous report, the KU18.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-743	Mr President, I would like to The debate here today is about motions on how Parliament works. The committee chooses to reject all motions, with sometimes less thought-out arguments. I therefore do not share the opinion of the committee on the rejection of my motion for a resolution of 1928 on the democratic strengthening of the current system. Most changes to increase the democratic influence of the Riksdag require constitutional changes, which is a longer process and should be so. However, a recent example that should be taken into consideration concerns Sweden's outdated approach to possible new elections between the ordinary elections. For example, Denmark and England, which, unlike Sweden, are used to extra elections, apply a different principle to new elections. Once a new election has been held between the ordinary general elections, the next ordinary elections will be postponed for a full term. This gives each choice the same status. This is not the case in Sweden. An additional election shall be called, however, at the pre-determined time. In practice, this means that an extraordinary election can be called by the Prime Minister at the beginning of a term of office, but hardly at the end. Where's the logic? Is a government crisis only conceivable at the beginning of a term of office and not as one approaches the next ordinary elections? With more than a year to go to the elections, the weak red-green government, which is forced to seek support from the Left Party, is in danger of not getting its budget through for 2018. After the alliance opposition deliberately allowed harmful budgets to pass for three years, it finally seems that this autumn it is possible to use the parliamentary majority already in existence from 2014 and put an end to this. The possibility of extra elections that existed in early 2015, which could radically change economic development, does not exist today because of the rules for extra elections. A crisis for an extra-election government is not necessarily a crisis for the country and its citizens. In fact, it may be the other way around. Theresa May in the United Kingdom, with Parliament's approval, received a new election, which is likely to strengthen her government's position in the negotiations on Brexit. Alternatively, she loses, but this too is better for England than the locked-up positions with the closest trench war that currently prevails between government and opposition in the run-up to the Brexit negotiations. A similar paralysed relationship prevails in Sweden for what can happen to next year's budget. Will there be another damaging budget from S, MP and V because the opposition cannot pull itself together this year either? Or is it an alliance budget? Or is it a budget that, like a Swiss cheese, is torn apart by a divided government and parliament? Democracy and the current situation might have been good to be resolved by the Swedish people by means of an extra election if the situation were to become unsustainable. But because of our order to prevent new elections, this opportunity is overplayed despite the fact that valuable time is lost for the Swedish people to see the economic development that this House has already wanted since the 2014 elections. However, as I said, Mr President, this requires a constitutional change, and it takes and will take time. But nothing will happen in the long term if the idea is not even raised, which I am now doing with this speech. However, there are other changes that can strengthen Parliament's position in the short term and which I described in my 1928 exercise. Let me therefore briefly inform this House of what the proposals are about. The root of the democratic deficit we see today with a shift of power from parliament to government, however weak the government may have in parliament, can be traced to the excessive power of political parties today even over elected members of the Swedish Parliament. Far over a century ago, when the political parties began to establish themselves, these member-based non-profit organisations were firmly rooted in what we normally see as the expression of real democracy. But since the late 1970s something dramatic has happened. From the fact that the parliamentary parties then had well over 1 1⁄2 million members, the number of members has decreased to just over a quarter of a million by 2015. Political scientist Svend Dahl also notes in his thesis in 2011 that the former member-oriented parties have now become clearly voter-oriented instead, i.e. clearly less interested in the members' opinions. Top-governed parties with an elite who do not seem to worry about the views of the members or the majority of the elected representatives of the people, coupled with significantly increased power for political officials without political mandates from either members or the people, raise concern for the development of democracy in Sweden. An essential part of the democratic foundation seems to have been lost in today's party system, and, Mr President, the democratic threat picture which, with this shift in perspective, has risen up for the autonomy of the majority of the MPs has not gone without a trace. On no less than three occasions during the 2000s, Parliament's administration has examined, among other things, how practical and financial support for the members of parliament works in relation to the legislation in force in this area. These internal investigations have caused some concern and have recently been crowned with an extensive external democracy inquiry, led by former Director General Olle Wästberg, who has led to the report Let more shape the future! ................................................................. Wästberg's conclusions, that there are serious examples of how power has been shifted from the individual MPs to the political party leaders and to political officials, have led to proposals that are currently being prepared at the Government Office. However, in addition to the studies and proposals that have been carried out, I would point out in my motion of 1928 that a number of further changes should be made urgently within the framework of the current system. These include: The parliamentary groups should be constitutionally regulated so that they are legal persons of their own. This system applies to almost all of us related countries in Europe – according to the Swedish Parliament's investigation service, only Sweden, Switzerland and Malta are excluded. As its own legal personality, the parliamentary group becomes more independent as a constitutional party unit, elected by the people to show the non-profit party unit elected by party members. Today, the non-profit party association is essentially in power over the parliamentary group, which seriously limits the ability of elected representatives to exercise independently the mandate given to them in general elections. This is serious from the point of view of democracy, partly because the members of a party make up less than 1 per cent of those who have actually chosen to vote for the MPs, and partly because the leader and management of the non-profit part of the party are often the same people who lead the parliamentary group. This fact took the most embarrassing expression when my former party leader became Prime Minister and at the same time automatic leader of my parliamentary group. As you know, the Riksdag will review the ministers, but it will not be so easy if the Prime Minister himself is the leader of a parliamentary group. When the parliamentary group becomes a legal entity of its own in a new constitution, it can be made clear that it chooses within itself its leadership in a secret ballot, that a voting procedure within the party group should be the normal thing to establish a party opinion and that the parliamentary group as its own legal person has the opportunity to have a better democratic process to decide on appointments to parliamentary committees, other parliamentary bodies and positions in other organisations associated with the parliamentary mandate. A parliamentary group as its own legal person can also receive the party support that is currently intended to go to the MPs to facilitate their work. That is not the case today. Instead, it is managed centrally by the parties, which in turn employ the staff to serve the party. The risk with today's procedure is that tax funds allocated to parliamentary work instead go to party work, which was not the legislator's opinion. If this support goes directly to the parliamentary groups, the respective members, together with the Riksdag administration, who can bear the responsibility as an employer, can employ a full-time administrative resource, to which the law provides dedicated funds and which best serves the particular mandate. In conclusion, Mr President, with the important changes that I proposed in motion 1928, the power of Parliament will be considerably strengthened by clarifying the powers of individual Members of Parliament. This will also allow the increased power to be linked to a greater personal responsibility for each parliamentary mandate, and thus make it easier for the Swedish people to demand this from their elected representatives in general elections. With these words, I would like to call for the approval of motion 2016/ 17:1928.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-766	Mr President, I would like to I have signed up for six minutes of speaking time. I won't even talk a fraction of that time. This is a matter that has been referred back to committee, and it has been up for debate in the past. My colleague Fredrik Eriksson has then well explained the position of the Swedish democrats on this issue. I would therefore like to express my satisfaction with reservations Nos 1, 2 and 3.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-767	Mr President, I would like to Last time I was standing in the speaker's seat on this issue, I asked on behalf of the Social Democrats to refer the matter back to the Constitutional Committee for further consideration. It is unusual to do this, but today we are satisfied with the outcome, as the re-drafting has led the Constitutional Committee to propose an announcement on veteran's day as a general flag day. Celebrating the Swedish veteran's day as a flag day would, in the Committee's opinion, provide the opportunity for Swedes who cannot participate in the official state ceremonies to privately show their appreciation for Sweden's veterans. It would also increase the knowledge of the veterans' important efforts and show that they are attentive and appreciated. The committee also welcomes the fact that Veterans Day is developing into a day where all veterans, both military and civilian, who have made international efforts for peace and freedom, are recognised. They have made great efforts for the country. An important step on the way to developing the celebration of veteran day is to make it a public flag day. That is precisely why it should be so. Other motion requests, relating to issues of flag day, national flag, flag times, EU flag, national symbols, public holidays, a national liberation day for homosexuals, a memorial day dedicated to the victims of communism, a civil courage prize and kebab pizza Day, we are calling for rejection. We Social Democrats in the Constitutional Committee attach great importance to the fact that, as a committee, we have serious discussions in depth, especially on issues which, among other things, concern our constitutional areas. The fact that we agree at the negotiating table and find broad solutions together that last over time regardless of governments is something we value very much. Having said that, Mr President, I would like the Parliament to announce to the government that veteran day of 29 May is a general day of flag and that the remaining demands for exercise are rejected.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-771	Mr President, I would like to As the previous speaker has emphasised, this matter has been discussed in this House a few weeks ago. The Veterans, their work and our willingness to honour their work definitely deserve a little longer interpretation this time too. Nevertheless, I think that we should look back at how the matter has been going through the House. The part of the report that is about making veteran day a general flag day goes back on a motion that was fundamentally aroused by the Moderates. Later it became a committee motion from all the Moderates, and to it has since the Liberals, the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Center joined. When we stood here last time, we were also talking about an announcement, because there was a majority in Parliament. Those who had not joined the motion were the government parties Social Democrats and the Environmental Party and the Left. We have discussed this issue in the length and cross-section of the committee in the past, both in the first and second rounds – especially in the first round. Personally, I have argued for it. But the Social Democrats and the Green Party were not quite mature in thinking, to put it mildly, but needed a few more weeks of reflection. I think it is a bit of a pity that it is first under the gallows that we get a broad majority, but I am still happy about it. It is an important mark for a multitude of people who really deserve our honour and respect. Making veteran day a flag day is to honor and pay attention but also to spread knowledge about the efforts that all these women and men have made over the decades. We are talking about tens of thousands of people, between 80 000 and 100 000 in total, who for peace and freedom have raised their hand to participate voluntarily in the important work of creating peace in trouble spots around the world. They have intervened in earthquakes and people are dying it when there have been Ebola eruptions in Africa and people have died like flies. All of these have stepped in and actually risked their own lives. Mr President, I would like to You're like a veteran, not yourself in this. You have relatives. You have friends. You have workmates. They are all covered by the effort made. When the veterans' efforts are honored and paid attention, they are also covered. Who is the veteran, Mr President? I'm pretty sure we all know someone and have someone in our circle. I know that even Mr President. They may not always tell us about their efforts – for various reasons they may not. In this way, the flag can also be hoisted for the silent persons. Being a veteran is having been in situations around the world that have brought you home with priceless qualities and experiences that many of us do not have. As an employer, when I am going to hire a person and go through the person's CV, I would bounce to extra when I see that the person in question has been active in an international effort, and I would ask about that. It's a merit. These persons have team spirit, companionship, and leadership qualities. They also have an experience of enduring rather stressful or very stressful situations. Those who come home, Mr President, have, for the most part, these experiences and competences. But not everyone comes home physically or mentally. For this we have a particular responsibility. This applies to both military and civilian veterans. Mr President, I would like to When I stand here today, after a second round, I feel proud. I am proud of the efforts of the veterans for our country, in the service of peace and freedom. We all owe you a great deal of thanks from the bottom of our heart, especially those of us who sit in this House and who take the ultimate decision to send you away. I'm proud that the Alliance government put a veteran policy on the line. There are some investigations that have led to veteran politics. However, there are still outstanding elements in the veteran investigations, including a general flag day, which need to be developed. That is the responsibility of the current government. I am proud of my own party, which has a party decision in its back. I'm proud of moderate exercisers. I'm not the only one who's been exercising on this. With today's broad majority in favour of the proposal, Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler, Erik Andersson, Maria Malmer Stenergard, Ulrika Karlsson in Uppsala and Johan Johansson, who no longer sits in the Riksdag but who did so during the last term of office, get their movements with the same conclusion and theme satisfied. I am particularly proud of the work carried out by veteran organisations and also by family members' organisations. I am proud of the Swedish Armed Forces' part in this when it comes to developing in every way their care for the veterans who return. There is development potential for those employers who do not belong to the Swedish Armed Forces but who in their employment lists also have veterans with experience. I am also proud of the journalists and debaters who have influenced the process in this direction. This has been done by Tove Lifvendahl and Johanne Hildebrandt, among others. It almost sounds like I'm talking at an Oscar gala. But what I want to say about this is that it is together that we can influence. It is together that we can drive the development. In fact, we can stand here today, with a very broad majority in Parliament, and say that, with the help of the government, we will introduce a new flag day. It doesn't happen every day. But this is done for a very legitimate purpose. It is with great pride, with a warm heart and with great honour and respect that I thank, among others, the veterans who have gathered in this House today to listen to the debate and who have earned it. I call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the Constitutional Committee's report No 29, particularly in the part about finally turning veteran day into a general flag day.
i-BUyE9wFuoYab7dujHYwB3U	Mr President, I would like to In the Constitutional Committee, following the decision of the House on 29 March on referral back, we have re-examined the matter of public holidays, which are part of the flag days. In the parliamentary debate on 29 March, I voted in favour of the Center Party's proposal for an announcement to the government that veteran's day on 29 May would become a general flag day. Since this meant that the majority in Parliament changed on this issue, a request from the Social Democrats for a referral of the matter to the Constitutional Committee was made in the debate. In the previous debate, I have highlighted the importance of the celebration of veteran day organised by the Swedish Armed Forces since 2008 on 29 May each year. Our country must, of course, pay tribute in various ways to personnel who have participated in and participate in national and international military operations and commemorate those who have died and died. Now, after the re-examination, the KU report contains an almost unanimous announcement to the government to make veteran day a general flag day. It is now only the Västerpartiet that is against it. In connection with the re-examination, we in the KU welcome the fact that veteran's day is to be celebrated and also developed into a day where all veterans, military and civilian, who have made international efforts for peace and freedom should be recognised. Mr President, I would like to I, on behalf of the Center Party, support the committee's proposal in the KU report on public holidays, which now includes an announcement to the government to make veteran day of 29 May a general flag day.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-790	Mr President, I would like to I, too, from the Liberal side, will make the process short – it is something that has been a very long process. I shall refer to the speech by Allan Widman in the debate on 29 March. As former chairman of the Veteran investigation, he pointed out how grateful and happy he was. It was the Veteran investigation that raised the issue of the importance of a flag day for our veterans. Annicka Engblom and Per-Per-Ingvar Johnsson have very well explained the whole course of events. We Liberals are happy to support the committee's proposal in the report on the announcement and look forward to celebrating a proper flag day in due course. Perhaps we will have time to do so already on 29 May this year.
i-LZVX7syzc4XuKtE7gpwBfW	Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee has agreed to propose to the Riksdag that Veteran Day on 29 May be made a general flag day. Since 2008, this very day has been celebrated as a veteran's day within the Swedish Armed Forces. Sweden has been involved in international peace efforts for over 60 years. The women and men who put themselves at risk and at risk in the service of peace deserve our gratitude and support. That's why we celebrate veteran day every year on May 29th. Now, based on initiatives taken by the alliance parties, the Riksdag has also taken a decision calling on the Government to make veteran day a general flag day.
i-Nxg8Azj8qoDzMb2TxNhGnN	In the Committee on Defence's report 2015/ 16:FöU8, it was proposed that the Parliament should support an announcement to the government of what the committee said about the Veteran investigation's proposal. There was then a reservation that is gone now, and the House approved the committee's proposal. The Constitutional Committee welcomes the fact that Veterans Day is developing into a day when all veterans, military and civilian, who have made international efforts for peace and freedom are recognised. Making veteran's day a public flag day is one way of developing the celebration of veteran's day, and therefore an almost unanimous committee believes that veteran's day of 29 May should become a public flag day.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-795	Mr President, I would like to We are discussing the Constitutional Committee's report on public holidays. There is broad agreement, in general, on the committee's response to the motions in this report, and that is a good thing. On one point, it is regrettable that the committee has chosen to support some individual motions from M-members to make the so-called veteran's day a public flag day. As we write in our reservation, the Left Party does not rule out that there may be reason to change which days should be general flag days. There may then be flag days that should be removed, and there may be other days that should become new public flag days. This has also been the reasoning of the Riksdag on several occasions and under different majorities. The General Flag Days Regulation has also not been amended since 1982. That is reasonable, because this is not an issue suitable for cheap points and hasty action. In addition to the question of principle that we have in our reservation, it is also a delicate task to specify what it actually means to have a flag day for veterans. This, too, is not suitable for rapid action. There are different groups of people who at risk of their own lives, with or without uniform, under different circumstances and with different types of mandates, have made important efforts for Sweden abroad. These are achievements worth paying attention to and honouring in many different contexts. We need proper and sensitive considerations before Parliament sends this type of specific call for flag day to the government. As has already been said, this is something on which we have previously had broad agreement in the Riksdag, and on the Left side we are therefore not prepared to shift our feet lightly without a broader and more coherent discussion on general flag days. That is why I am in favour of Amendment No 1 and otherwise of the committee's proposal.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-802	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes things go a little fast, and so was my speech when it came to the reservations that we should be calling for. I hereby request the approval of reservations 2 and 3.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-803	Mr President, I would like to We shall now discuss and debate the report of the Committee on Justice on violent crime and victims of crime. The heading of this case denotes two very central parts of the administration of justice. Violent crimes have recently been dealt with in this House when we decided to tighten the penalties for serious crimes of violence by making changes in the scale of penalties, which is an expression of less and less tolerance to violence between people. It is an effect of people becoming more socialised and living more closely together, and there is also reason for society to mark against violent crime. On the opposite side of the perpetrator is always a victim of violent crime. Victims of crime are persons who, for various reasons, do not always have the opportunity to come to justice. It may be that the police do not investigate the crimes that you rightly think should be investigated. It can even be about simply not getting help in an emergency situation, and that is, of course, unacceptable. Such things are about other things than this particular matter, but they have an effect on violent crime and crime victims. The Moderates and several of our comrades in the Alliance believe that the government should go further on a number of issues. In the longer term, I can say that I find it a bit sad that the Social Democrats, in particular, in previous terms of office, have had a rather weak interest in the victims of crime. This was reflected, for example, in the fact that no one wanted to debate issues relating to victims of crime in the run-up to the previous elections. I hope it's something different now, but maybe not completely. Perhaps then some of the sports that exist would have been approved. Before I go further, I would like, for the sake of the order, to agree to reservation 3 in paragraph 6. We are, of course, in favour of all reservations where the Moderates are listed as reserveants, but for time winning, I only ask for the approval of reservation 3. I can start by saying something about honour-related violence, because that is what reservation 3 refers to. Honour-related violence is something that is sometimes brought to the attention of the judiciary, and those victims who dare to resist may be in very bad trouble. We know this through the Pela Atroshi and Fadime 中ahindal cases, people who dared to resist but were still affected by the extreme violence. Both of them were honor-buttered. There are thousands of people living in Sweden who live under the influence of an honorary culture, which has a variety of consequences. However, everyone is being restricted in their freedom, and that is something that we think is very serious. You cannot live your life in the way that we think you should be able to live in Sweden, regardless of whether you are a woman or a man. However, this mainly affects younger women. You don't get to choose who to marry. You don't get to choose who to hang out with. In the worst case, you are subjected to very serious reprisals from family, close relatives and relatives if you violate the standards of honor that exist. We can never accept this, and we must go further in all efforts to tackle this type of crime. This involves a variety of measures. One might think that a survey may not be necessary, for this should be well known, but I'm not so sure that is the case. There is reason to look at this but also to see what knowledge exists, for example, in social services in different parts of Sweden to deal with victims of crime, who are the victims of something that can be an expression of honorary culture. I know that many victims rely on perhaps social services to help them, because it may be a matter of having to move and live in another place in order to live in the way you want to. But in many places, unfortunately, understanding is low. There are also good examples of how to work with the problems, and I think we should take up the good examples. There we will take in knowledge and use it in all contexts where the questions are relevant. Naivity doesn't help anyone. There is a naivety on these issues. For example, social services may talk to relatives of the victim and get a completely different picture. Then you don't understand how to evaluate and validate the information that has emerged. I will also mention some of the other important areas. I was going to talk about violence against the elderly in particular. The number of older people in Sweden is increasing. It is a natural consequence of development, and ageing should also be accompanied by good quality of life. This also applies in the case of non-violence or crime. Elderly people are not treated well within the care system. If violence occurs, it is something that is gladly silenced by the operators. We know it's happening. We also know that there are problems with relationship violence against the elderly, and even disabled people should be mentioned. That is also a major problem. It is often about fragile and defenseless people. They get hurt by that kind of crime. We Moderates have pointed out something that was done during the time of the Alliance Government, namely to commission the Prosecutor's Office to look into the possibilities of using different grounds of punishment so that the penalties are stricter when targeting the protectionless, defenceless and elderly. There is reason to look at these questions. Although it was something that was done already during the time of the Alliance Government, there is reason to move forward with regard to legislation against forced and child marriages, that is to say, to prevent young people from being married away against their will. There is legislation today, but there is reason to look at whether more can be done. The fact that young people are married away against their will is also strongly associated with honorary culture. It is usually not the person who is to marry who is to decide who he or she is to marry, but someone else who has a definite view. It may be old men who marry very young women, and it may be relationships that we find hard to understand. In any case, there is reason to do more. Mr President, I would like to These are issues that can be debated and discussed much more than that.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-825	Mr President, I would like to The report on Violent crime and crime victims has a bunch of reservations from the opposition, which in various ways want to improve the situation of our country's victims. With all due respect for individual legislative changes, which can, for example, provide better redress and a clearer mark against violent crimes, the basic prerequisites are most important. Mr President, I would like to In the autumn of 2015, there was a party in the Swedish parliament that proposed to increase the number of police officers in our country. No other party thought it was a necessary investment. It was we, the Swedish Democrats, who proposed that more police officers be trained, and you other parties voted against. If we had got what we wanted, we would have seen more police officers out on duty this year. But the result of all the remaining parties gives the number of police officers available today. Unfortunately, there are countless victims who never get their police report processed. It can be a clear case with clear evidence and even recognition from the perpetrator, but after several years the case has not gone further than just a police report. This is only because there are too few police officers to deal with many reported crimes. Too few police officers to deal with many reported crimes create a priority where some cases may be written off or have to wait for several years for an investigator to start handling the case. This situation, which too many victims experience, is a cumulative effect of the framework grants to the Police Authority that both the Alliance and the Red-Green parties were behind in 2015. I may not have to stress that I think that this is all up the walls. I feel very much about the victims who have suffered a crime where the evidence situation may be clear but where the government's under-financing of the Police Authority has prevented victims from getting their case handled by the police. Unfortunately, Mr President, there is no better word to describe this than that it is shit. Mr President, I would like to There is a well-known order in this country, namely that when a violent crime has occurred there are endless resources, support and political consideration for the criminal, but almost always energy for the victims is quite sparse. Dan Eliasson, you know, our national police chief in the country, has clearly exemplified this very thing. When a 22-year-old girl got in the way of a murderer at an asylum home last year, it was on live air in SVT over what trauma the killer carried with him and what he might have experienced for the horrors. This is a classic approach for left-wing liberals and parties. When a crime is committed, no one focuses on marking against the criminal act or showing support for the victim. All the focus is on the criminal and if that person has had too few recreation centres to choose from when this one has grown up. We recognise the debate. In this report, the Swedish Democrats are behind a reservation to point out more clearly when older people, who may find it difficult to defend themselves, are exposed to a crime. We believe that it is self-evident that it should be seen as an aggravating circumstance and thus lead to a clearer penalty if, for example, someone assaults and robs a pensioner who finds it difficult to defend himself. The red-green parties are calling for these motions to be rejected. Instead, they are always satisfied. In fact, there is a point in the Criminal Code that deals with older people and penalties, including the punishment of older people who have committed a crime. Then the courts must take into account the age of the criminal in the measurement of the sentence so that the criminal does not receive a far too long penalty. According to the government, being in prison when you're older can be perceived as extra tough. In other words, the government considers age to be important in the measurement of penalties in cases where the elderly is a criminal, but age does not matter when the elderly is a victim of crime. Once again, we see a clear concern for the criminal's perspective and lack of concern for the victim's perspective. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats generally want society to have greater and clearer responsibility for the victim perspective. That is why we want the state to continue to be primarily responsible for the victims of crime having their compensation paid by the state and not for the victims to have to turn to the perpetrators to try to get their compensation paid. We also want to see a higher level of compensation for violent crimes, because we simply value the violation of the rights of victims of violence more than, for example, when someone feels they are being violated because of their religious affiliation. The Swedish democrats are still behind making it easier for women who are now being harassed, persecuted, threatened and subjected to violence to bans on contact. From the first breath when a woman applies for a restraining order, the matter should be taken very seriously, and the help and support of society must be available directly. There must, of course, be more serious consequences for those who are still in breach of a restraining order. In previous debates, we have proposed a anklet as an alternative to a restraining order. But the most important thing is what I began my speech with, namely that victims of crime must experience that their complaints are taken seriously. There must be immediate resources that will start immediately. It is unacceptable that there are so many victims left to their fate today. To change this requires political leadership that understands what needs to be done before the problems appear. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, such political leadership is not abundant in this congregation. Finally, I call for reservation 1 on violence against the elderly and reservation 16 on state compensation guarantees.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-839	Mr President, I would like to Adam Marttinen says that the police's lack of ability to investigate crime depends only on the number of police officers. He presents the Swedish democrats as if they had found out not only about the potatoes and Alströmer but also in this case. My question to Adam Marttinen is how he explains the declining rate of crime resolution over time. Is it just the number of cops it's about, or could it be something else too? It's kind of a leading question to Adam Marttinen. I can say this: The societal challenges that exist in Sweden mean that more police are needed. This applies not least to the challenges that exist in exclusion areas or, as the police call them, areas that are particularly vulnerable to serious crime. There the police have surrendered in many respects, as have many other authorities. The public space has been handed over to criminals. It is totally unacceptable, and in order to regain the territory there, police officers are required. We Moderates have therefore proposed 25 000 police officers by 2025, but we also believe that the efficiency of the police must be considerably higher. That is something that Adam Marttinen does not even mention. He says it's only about the number of cops. It is not only overbreach policy that leads to success but also analysis of what is lacking and can be improved in what is existing today. I would say that far higher efficiency and clearance rates are required in the police and that this is due to a variety of factors that are a little deeper but that more police are also required.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-844	Mr President, I would like to First of all, it is the number of police officers who are crucial for dealing with the reported crimes that are being piled up today. There is, like, no one who can do that work other than the police themselves. It's a mission that's been assigned to the Police Authority. It is the responsibility of the Political Authority, and more employees are required to manage that amount. As far as efficiency is concerned, I think that if you ask the police themselves around the districts if they are working efficiently, they will probably reply that they would rather see more police officers than more efficient, that most of the solution lies in the number of police officers and not in increasing efficiency. One can say that the Swedish Democrats seem to have a spåkula and question it, but we have had a clear conclusion on the development in Sweden. The Alliance has clearly said that migration has been a profit for society and welcomed it. We have done a completely different political analysis and said that uncontrolled migration to Sweden will place increased demands on our authorities, perhaps especially the Police Authority, in a short perspective. Looking back on what we have said and what we have predicted is our spåkula something clearer than the Alliance's spåkula. It is therefore no surprise that we have proposed an increase in the number of police officers to cope with the agency's overall mission. There I think that the Alliance and perhaps the Moderates have failed in their future analysis of the political events we have faced in Sweden.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-848	Mr President, I would like to I would say that if more police officers are added to the Swedish Police Authority and those police officers do not work effectively – which we have been able to draw attention to in a variety of individual respects; it may be in the case of housing offences or burglaries in other places, and it may be in the case of sexual offences – because the agency has working methods that mean that it is not effective, then something must be done about it. If nothing is done about it, the police officers appointed will not perform as many new investigations as they would if they were also looking at efficiency. I think that's obvious. When it comes to migration and all those issues, one can say this: It is individuals who commit crimes. B Rott should be judged according to its penalty value, and it is equally reprehensible to commit crimes regardless of who you are and where you come from. That is unacceptable in any case. Another thing that makes me a little confused is that the Swedish Democrats want to lift the liability from the person who has committed crimes and let the state take over that responsibility. I think it is a good order that the bailiff pursues the person who has committed a crime and is liable for damages so that that person can do the right thing, directly to the victim if possible. After all, the information that the plaintiff receives together with the judgment means that you are instructed exactly how to do and where to turn if you do not receive the damages, which the enforcement officer offers to collect. I think it is quite obvious that those who have committed crimes should do the right thing for themselves as far as possible, also in terms of damages, and I wonder why the Swedish Democrats want to lift that responsibility to the state.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-853	Mr President, I would like to As far as efficiency is concerned, Anti Avsan, you may say that you have had a few years during this term of office to allow the Police Authority to demonstrate its ability to streamline on the basis of the conditions it has had. Let's say, with the facts in hand, that things have turned out that way, especially in view of how many reported crimes are being piled up today. It goes without saying to me that we have had under-financing by the Police Authority and too low a political objective to have more police officers. More police officers are the main solution to many of the problems that the Po lice Authority is experiencing today. It is possible that we have different views on this, but it may well be natural because we belong to two different parties. With regard to the state liability guarantee, it is certainly not the case that liability should be removed from the person who has committed a crime. Perhaps I was a little unclear in my speech; it is clear from the motion that the State will in turn demand compensation from the person who committed the crime. But the very purpose of the exercise is, of course, to make it easier for the victims of crime in Sweden today so that they can have easier access to the compensation that has been imposed. They shall not have to be in contact with the offender or with the offender's lawyer or similar in order to have the compensation paid, but shall be a simpler process for the person who has been the victim of a crime. It is with regard to the victim perspective, as well as on so many other issues that we have dealt with in this motion report.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-856	Mr President, I would like to It's hard to understand the situation, hard to even formulate the idea, but imagine being affected by the worst thing you can get: that a loved one's close relative – your child, spouse, sibling or parent – is snatched away from you. Think of our thoughts that must go through the head and how it must feel in the heart and stomach when it begins to become clear what has happened. Think of those hours that may have time to go before you get clarity and when the olisen knocks on the door and leaves the nightmare statement. Right at the beginning of this term of office, I met with representatives of the RAV, the National Organization for Families of Killed Violent. It is people who have experienced just that. Nothing we do here can undo the damage. Time cannot be reversed, and no court in the world can bring back a loved one lost by crime. But we can do everything we can not to make the damage greater than it needs to be. The victim of violent crime must feel seen by society. As far as possible, that person shall receive redress for the offence committed against him or her. The perpetrator shall be prosecuted and punished, and the compensation to which he or she owes the victim shall be paid. If this is the case, most people will agree. However, it is not quite that simple. I will come back to that later in my speech. Investigations can be delayed, and sometimes no one is held to account for the crime. It is in itself serious and something that we must take very seriously. We see a negative trend in the results of the investigations, and that is not at all good. In a first stage, the victim is affected if no one can be held to account. The next step undermines confidence in the rule of law if there is a general feeling that crime can be committed without the risk of being caught. When more people discover that they can commit crimes without getting caught, more will commit crimes, with even fewer committed crimes being investigated and more criminals going free. A society that goes deeper and deeper into such a spiral is soon no longer to be regarded as a rule of law. There people will seek their security and, at worst, their restoration elsewhere than through democratic systems, with more crimes being committed. Finally, security is in free fall. We still have a long way to go in most parts of Sweden, but in some places efforts need to be made quickly. The longer you wait, the harder and more expensive it will be to reverse the trend. In some areas it is already difficult to get people to testify and perhaps even report crimes. Long-term confidence building work is needed to ensure the functioning of the rule of law there too. The Center Party has announced major investments in security. The local police, the district police, are fundamental to confidence in the police and the rule of law. We need to invest in them to make that kind of police service interesting enough for the most suitable police officers to apply for. The police must have time to work. They must get to know the inhabitants and establish the mutual respect that is required for someone to dare talk about what is perhaps the hardest thing to talk about. And once someone takes the step of reporting a crime or testifying, that person must feel that the whole rule of law stands up behind him or her in a supportive and professional way. However, the district police are not the only police officers who need better conditions. We have set aside 1.7 billion for all police officers to be able to get higher salaries. 2 000 SEK more a month the investment would be sufficient. This also applies to the 2 000 more police officers for whom we spend money in our shadow budget. It's not much, but it's a start and an important signal. The Center Party sees you, you brave and talented heroes who perform little miracles every day. I know my colleagues in the Alliance are on the same track. In total, we invest 9 billion to strengthen the police over a four-year period. This includes an effort of 1 300 civilian employees who can relieve the police and assist with expertise. For crime to be combated effectively, it does not only require efforts on the police. If we just shoot at funds there, the piles will grow with the prosecutors. They too must be provided with resources so that they can do a good job and within a reasonable time, so that the victim can be restored as quickly as possible, and indeed so that the offender can atone for his crime as soon as possible and move on in life. The National Forensic Centre, which does an important job for most criminal investigations, also needs a contribution. Already today they are on their knees, and the waiting times for their, for the criminal investigations are often absolutely crucial, analyses are already very long. We also want to strengthen witness protection. More people should feel safe when they participate in such a process. The three parts, which are outside the pure police efforts, represent almost one billion more in our great effort to strengthen security in Sweden. Besides that, there's something that I've been running since that conversation with RAV more than two years ago. They told me that sometimes it's a complicated process to get the damages you've been awarded as a victim. You have to be active and push on with the bailiff yourself. And that's what you should do when you've been exposed to something that often involves a terrible life crisis. I have not seen any figures on it, but I am convinced that there are many victims who are unable, who are not ids, to promote the last energy they have to pursue a compensation process. They are therefore deprived of the compensation to which they are entitled. Me and the Center Party have been exercising on this. So do the KD friends. We have a joint reservation on this, reservation 15 on compensation to victims of crime, to which I would like to ask for approval. I am, of course, behind all the reservations of the Center Party and the Alliance. But for time-winning, I plead only for it.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-876	Mr President, I would like to This report deals with violent crimes and victims of crime. There are several key points, but I will comment on some on the Liberals. The first concerns the work against gross female poverty and violence. It is remarkable that the government parties are calling for rejection of all our proposals for tightening up and for reference to investigations. It is also remarkable that there are frequent indications of initiatives taken as late as February and March 2017. It is therefore in the third year of a four-year term of office and will now begin to investigate and review in order to consider possible tightening-up. We have said that the minimum penalty for serious women's poverty should be increased. We know that the Crime Prevention Council has produced analyses. I know that they are now also going to look at the underlying reasons for the reduction in the number of reported, cleared and prosecuted offences. But that work will only start in November 2018, i.e. after the election. We also have a number of claims relating to honour-related violence. We will not follow up on that reservation. We have pointed out the inaccuracies and shortcomings in the legislation regarding the motives of honour as a basis of punishment. Only in February, we also took the initiative in the Civil Committee to ensure that Sweden does not recognise children's marriages that have been concluded abroad. We received support for this direction by a majority in the Swedish Parliament. This forced the Minister of Justice and Migration to announce in March that this legislation will now be reviewed. It is particularly interesting to look at how the government parties deal with several requests for an electronic ankle in this report. Perhaps this is the issue that has received the most attention in Swedish domestic politics in recent weeks. The Liberals have proposed in the report an increased use of a restraining order. The government parties are calling for rejection. We have proposed that the penalty be increased in the event of an infringement of a restraining order. And that's what the government parties say no to. Liberals have also been exercising on an extended area of prohibition of contact, for those who harass, persecute and threaten, for example, their ex-wife. Then we should be able to adopt and strengthen the legislation. But even there, the government parties reject our pleas. We regret that. I would like to highlight and support reservation 5 in the report. We have called for and demanded in a motion that the judiciary – the courts, the police and the prosecution – should be better when it comes to the work against hate crimes. We are, of course, denied. That is how the government parties handle our motions today. Reference is made to strategies and documents and to the fact that the police have increased their ability to work against hate crimes. I hope that the Social Democrats or the Green Party can give a clear indication of how they can refer to the fact that the police have increased their ambition. How can you say in this report that the work is progressing, that there are now hate crime groups in several places, and that it is possible to deal with complaints and carry out more investigations in the area of hate crime? The fact is that the hate crime groups have in principle had to close down. The hate crime group in Gothenburg is now reduced to three police officers. I contacted the hate crime group in City in Stockholm police area today. They announced that they are not doing any hate crime work right now. It's not because they don't want to and not because they're not there. They don't have time because they've got other jobs. And according to the information I have, the hate crime group in Malmö needs increased priority. One needs, not least, increased support from the police leadership. With regard to the work against hate crime, we have been able for many years to gather together politically and say that it is important. If you are exposed to discrimination, racism or religious affiliation, you should be able to rely on a police system, a prosecutor's service and a court system that takes the concerns seriously. But this capacity, this information, does not match the image of the government parties when they today reject our motion.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-889	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the report on violent crime and victims of crime. Several Members have considered what I intend to start with, namely that a strong effort is required on the Swedish police. We have proposed 10 000 more police officers, increased salaries and better working conditions for police officers. We want to do this to increase the attractiveness of the profession, so that we can have more policemen but also so that more people can stay in the profession. It is a central and important part of being able to take the victim's perspective, in order to re-establish and support victims. We have a reservation in the report on honour-related violence, which Mr Anti Avsan has referred to. I agree with paragraph 3 and I support it. The reservation on violence against the elderly sees the Christian Democrats as urgent. I read a while ago in Expressen about Åke, 92 years old, who told me that he had had bad luck last year, as he said. He had been robbed outside his own home, not one, not two, but three times. Some criminal types – I get angry when I hear this – go after a 92-year-old man outside his own home. It is clear that these crimes need priority, and society needs to look particularly seriously at crimes against the elderly and others who may find it difficult to fight crime. Mr President, I would like to For us Christian Democrats, redress for the victim is central. We have a lot of reservations in this report, but I will not ask for everyone's approval. We also have SEK 20 million in our budget to increase support for victim support and to increase the government's responsibility for witness support. As far as support for victim support centres is concerned, non-profit organisations are extremely important. They have a major role to play in preventing violence, helping victims of crime and supporting people who want to leave crime or abuse. Today there are about 100 crime victims in Sweden. Victim support services can provide the victim with a non-profit supporter. For example, the victim supporter could go to trial, help, answer questions and be a support that so many people need. To a large extent, State aid to the non-profit sector has been paid out for limited time periods in projects. In order to ensure continuity and long-term sustainability of the activities, we believe it is important that the support be predictable and long-term. We therefore propose that the state's contribution to associations operating in the victim sector should be allocated directly to the local activities through the Victims' Agency. In our budget motion, we have proposed an extra SEK 20 million for this very urgent work. I would also like to agree with Johan Hedin's motion for reservation 15, which deals with compensation for victims of crime. Many victims testify to the difficulty of obtaining damages and that the violation after the crime is thus even greater. It must be easier for victims to obtain compensation. Today it is a very complicated process for those affected by this. We believe that the state should take responsibility and pay the compensation to the victim and that the state should then recover the amount from the offender. This is one way to strengthen support for the victim and to take the victim's restoration seriously. That is why I am also in favour of reservation 15. I also support the other reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats in this report, and I call for reservations 3 and 15.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-901	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. When I was working in court, I saw what is often hidden by the striker and by the hit one, what is otherwise just pineapple – perhaps by strange thumps from the apartment underneath, perhaps by a pair of sunglasses on a cloudy day. It's about cracked lips, torn hair and blood. These pictures were evidence against men who had beaten women. When the trial took place, the bruises were gone, but the injuries were still there. Self - esteem had not healed, and anxiety had not stopped grinding. Children had often seen things that no child should have to experience, things that no one forgets. The battle had been directed against the women in their homes, but at the same time laid down a regime that affects all women. These cowardly crimes are the ultimate form of power imbalance between men and women. The battle meets us all and is at the same time everyone's responsibility. Society can never, therefore, ever accept this crime. The government's goal is therefore crystal clear: Men's violence against women should cease. Point. In the letter Power, goal and authority – feminist policy for an equal future, the government presents the direction and a new sub-objective structure for gender equality policy. The overall goal is for women and men to have the same power to shape society and their own lives. The Government believes that the government's governance of actions against men's violence against women, including honour-related violence and repression as well as prostitution and human trafficking for sexual purposes, should follow a comprehensive national strategy during the period up to 2026. The strategy consists of policy objectives, an implementation organisation and a monitoring system. The strategy came into effect on 1 January this year. The Government believes that the strategy should contribute to achieving the Government's goal of ending men's violence against women and that women and men, girls and boys should have the same right and the possibility of physical integrity. The four policy objectives of the strategy are an enhanced and effective prevention of violence, improved detection of violence and stronger protection and support for women and children exposed to violence, more effective law enforcement, and improved knowledge and methodology development. On 23 February this year, the Government commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to support the implementation and follow-up of the national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women. The mission includes improving knowledge about the prevalence of violence and interventions in this area, as well as skills support and method development for healthcare and care personnel. The National Board of Health and Welfare will also carry out a national survey of honour-related violence and oppression, child marriages and forced marriages. The mission to the National Board of Health and Welfare aims, among other things, to improve knowledge about the prevalence of men's violence against women and interventions at national, regional and local level. The National Board of Health and Welfare shall make a partial report of the assignment by 30 March 2018 and a final report by 31 March 2020. In March of this year, the Government appointed a special investigator for relapse prevention for men who expose their loved ones to violence. The mission of the investigation is to analyse the impact of the interventions and to suggest how the work with perpetrators of violence can be developed and strengthened. The study is also tasked with identifying knowledge of effective methods and analysing activities aimed at preventing the occurrence and recurrence of violence, and reviewing the need for support and guidance for developing relapse prevention activities. In addition, proposals must be made on how support can be designed to enable this work to be made more efficient. The investigation will also look at how to promote interaction between and within social services, healthcare and the judicial authorities. The assignment shall be reported by 1 June 2018. In Brå's regulation letter for 2017, the agency was tasked with strengthening criminal law protection for women who are subjected to systematic abuse and violations by a partner or former partner. Brå will study the development of serious women's freedom and analyse the reasons for the reduction in the number of reported, cleared and prosecuted crimes. The assignment shall be presented by 1 November 2018. The Government announced in March this year that it intends to introduce mandatory elements on men's violence against women and violence in close relations in education and training to professions involving meetings with violent women and children. The Government has also implemented a number of other measures for victims of crime. The Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare have been commissioned by the Government to assist victims of violence in collecting personal belongings at home. A national knowledge centre on violence and abuse of children has been established at Linköping University. The women's shelters have been greatly strengthened by the fact that the government has allocated SEK 100 million annually over the next few years. The National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with evaluating experimental activities with five routine issues concerning the exposure of violence in healthcare and social services. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has recently also been tasked with further developing and supporting the introduction of effective methods in social services to work with perpetrators of violence. The National Board of Health and Welfare will also further develop and support the introduction of methods in the work of social services for children who are exposed to or at risk of being subjected to violence in the family. The Police Authority has been tasked with reporting how it works with transnational cases where there is suspicion of honour-related violence and oppression, marriage against its own will or child marriage. Control of women and girls in the name of honour can be about limitations in everyday life in terms of dress, association and physical freedom of movement. Many women are also not allowed to choose their own education, job or partner. Even young men can be married against their will. LGBTQ people can be considered threatening the honour of the family and subject to similar control, pressure and violence. The Government decided on 9 March this year to appoint a special investigator to investigate whether there is a need for measures to ensure enhanced protection against child marriage, forced marriages and crimes with honorary motives. The investigation will, among other things, analyse and consider how the possibility of recognising foreign child marriages can be further limited and examine to what extent honorary motives are taken into account by police, prosecutors and courts. In addition, the mandate includes a decision on whether to introduce a special penalty for crimes with honorary motives in the Criminal Code. That part of the assignment relating to the recognition of foreign child marriages shall be reported in an interim report by 6 December 2017. The assignment shall be finalized on September 1, 2018.
i-7492349ed945fa7b-923	Mr President, I would like to In addition to my duties as a Member of Parliament, I am a substitute for the Criminal Damage Compensation Board. This is where people who have been subjected to violent crimes, among other things, can turn if compensation cannot be obtained from the person who committed the crime. In that role, I have read about some of the most terrible lives people have suffered because some have taken the right to violate other people's privacy, physical or otherwise. Society's task is to protect people from crime. It is a very urgent task, and this government works in many different ways to combat crime. Among other things, it is a question of preventing crime from being committed at all. It is an incredibly important piece of work that has been re-launched with the national crime prevention programme, which is the first in 20 years. A special area that is urgent and that involves both me and my party Environmental Party and the government is the work against men's violence against women. Here the government has adopted a ten-year national strategy, which for the first time focuses on the prevention of men's violence against women, violence in close relationship and violence in the name of honour. In addition to preventive work, the Government is actively working to improve the detection of such violence, in order to protect those who are vulnerable. Part of this is the major investment in women's shelters and the increased funding for victim support services. These are non-profit associations where you work days, evenings and weekends to support the women and other victims who need someone to talk to – or at worst another home at a secret address. In addition, more effective law enforcement is an incredibly important means of putting an end to men's violence against women. Through better working methods in the police, such as sexual crimes, I hope that more people will be held accountable for their actions. Mr President, I would like to We also need to develop knowledge and methods – knowledge about how we can effectively prevent destructive masculinity standards resulting in increased violence. Not least, I was going to talk a little about the work against violence in the name of honour. I believe that we have a challenge in society here, Mr President. We must do a lot to intervene when it has already happened, but for the young boys and girls who are forced to break with their whole family and family in order to live a life of freedom – or perhaps even have life at all – tragedy is already a fact. There is a great deal of commitment to these issues in many parties; we have heard that today. The honour-related violence has also been high on the government's agenda. The government investigates a penalty for violence in the name of honour and reviews the rules on child marriage. There is now a broad consensus here, although the previous government was satisfied with the legislation then put forward. I welcome the fact that we now agree that we must look more seriously at child marriage and not accept that children in Sweden are married. We also need better tools to bring home children who have been married abroad against their will. It is very sad knowledge we get when we talk to those who are experts on these issues in Sweden, the County Administrative Board in Östergötland. We know that many children have been taken abroad to be married against their will, and some sixty of them have even been in contact with social services or other adults in municipalities in Sweden today. More knowledge is needed. The National Board of Health and Welfare is to carry out a national survey, but above all the knowledge of the individuals who meet these children is needed, Mr President. The knowledge is needed by the social secretaries who face the victims of violence. The knowledge is needed in dentists who see the woman whose teeth have apparently been knocked out by force. Therefore, it is with great pleasure that I look forward to the government's decision to make it mandatory to know about men's violence against women in relevant educations. Mr President, I would like to I'll also say a few words about hate crimes. It is an issue that the government has been actively working on, and it has commissioned the Police Authority to develop its work against this type of crime – which not only affects individuals but also creates fear in groups of people, because of their origin, religion or sexual orientation. If what Roger Haddad from the Liberals says is true, that is to say that the work that the government has decided is a priority, and which the Police Authority itself has said itself should prioritise, is not carried out in reality, it is very serious. We need to follow that up together. As far as hate crime is concerned, I would also like to emphasise that we see a big difference between the Green Party and the Swedish Democrats. The Swedish Democrats do not at all think that it is a problem that some people are exposed because of their religious affiliation. The Green Party and several other parties in this House do not want a society where people suffer from hatred because of their faith or sexual orientation. Mr President, I would like to There is much more to be said about these important issues, but I will have to round off here because we are about to vote. I support the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights in the report.
