i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-7	Mr President, I would like to My grandmother Märta often said that I was unturned, and my youngest son Simon says that I have pain in patience. That is why I recognise myself in many of the Members' motions, which make demands in areas where the government is actually already working and want things to go a little faster. Despite the demands, however, I can see that several parties have somewhat lower levels of ambition in terms of resources in our particular committee area. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to be approved in the report and for all reservations to be rejected. We also choose not to follow up our own reservation, even if we actually believe that it strikes an already open door. Mr President, I would like to A faster way to move from idea to proposal and decision is through collaboration. With collaboration and understanding of each other's roles, companies dare to develop and invest, and the government dares to invest in the necessary infrastructure, research, education, housing construction and efforts to increase exports. We have set the target of having the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. It is a goal that we have set and that we can and want to achieve, and we think that the whole of Sweden should contribute to it. That is an ambitious goal – just as it should be when something really is important for real. It is gratifying that things are now moving in the right direction. The economy is growing, employment is increasing and unemployment is falling. In Jämtland, where I live, we received crisis money from the EU under the bourgeois government because youth unemployment was sky high. I'm happy to say it doesn't look like that anymore. It is amazing that we have better figures, and even more gratifying, of course, that more people have a job to go to. However, this does not allow us to sit back and believe that it is possible to slow down into the future. Mr President, I would like to That is why cooperation is needed. Like the business community, we believe that there must be a structure for it. The Prime Minister therefore set up an Innovation Council immediately after the change of government. The Innovation Council has identified three major challenges that are central to solving, namely digitalisation, life science and environmental and climate technology. The government, in turn, set up five collaborative programmes to build on these challenges: Sometimes I see an almost allergic reaction to interaction, and I want to prescribe the medicine to meet more companies. For most of the people I meet are calling for dialogue and collaboration between industry, research and the public. If you look at this in a historical perspective in Sweden, you can also see that it has been incredibly important to drive development. Mr President, I would like to I would like to mention some of the sectors that operate and create jobs throughout Sweden. 70% of the country's surface is covered with forest. It's our greatest natural resource. Yesterday I had an exciting meeting with Iva, who presented some of his work with the green gold. It works to strengthen the profitability and competitiveness of the forest industry. At the same time, there are solutions in the forest to many of the challenges society faces. Among other things, I learned a new amazing word: Forestry and products with forest as a raw material dominate the Swedish bioeconomy, and it has all the potential to increase. Anything you can make of oil you can make of forest. At the moment, housing construction is at amazing levels in Sweden, and increasing the proportion of wood built is good for both the climate and the value chain. Forests build both city and country, but value added can actually increase in rural businesses. With that, there will be more jobs. Mr President, I would like to Another important industry I would like to mention is the ever-growing tourism industry. It employs people from Abisko to Österlen– yes, it is even where there is no forest. It is a very important industry throughout Sweden, not least in my home country Åre, and we are currently taking market shares from the rest of Europe. The tourism industry can sometimes be seen as a pleasant industry that is not really serious, and therefore it has an even greater need for collaboration. The government has also set up a dialogue forum where all areas that are important for the tourism industry are discussed with the relevant ministers. The Government has also set up an investigation into a coherent policy for sustainable tourism and the growing tourism industry. Last time it was done was 2004. A great many efforts are being made in this area, and I would like to mention some of them. The Swedish Agency for Growth continues to make efforts for destination development, and Visit Sweden has received more resources for marketing Sweden abroad. In the Government's export strategy there are efforts to get more international events to Sweden, and the Government and SKL have reached an agreement on simplifications for restaurant entrepreneurship using digital solutions. Sweden has fallen behind when it comes to digitalisation and public access. The reduction in VAT for nature guidance has been announced. It is incredibly strange that it should be more expensive to be guided to see a moose in the forest than to go to a zoo. Yesterday there was also – not least for us in northern Sweden – very happy news that the government intends to invest in both operation and rehabilitation of night rail traffic. Many of us have fought to save the night trains. Mr President, I would like to Politics is to want and enable. Now there is an export strategy, and there is a new industrialisation strategy. There is a food strategy and an energy agreement. The market-supplementary state venture capital has been restructured, a forestry programme is on the way and the consultation round of the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development's proposals is just ready. The work with regulatory simplification is constantly present, and the Swedish Agency for Growth, together with Arbetsförmedlingen, has the task of developing and implementing a national programme with efforts to ensure that more social companies start and grow. In order to achieve a diversity of companies and entrepreneurs, the Government's objective is that everyone regardless of gender, ethnic background, age, sector and geographical location should have access to business promotion measures on equal terms. Mr President, I would like to Nutrition policy depends on interaction with virtually all other policy areas. Without training, there are not competent employees to hire, and without infrastructure goods and services cannot be transported. Without many more housing and a functioning well-being with preschools, retirement homes, schools and health care, it is also not possible to start a business or find staff. Without a regional policy, we do not take advantage of all of Sweden's opportunities to develop. In all these areas, the government has invested in long-awaited and welcoming reforms. It is about education, for example. There are 70 000 training places, 10 permanent welfare billions, a 40% increase in railway maintenance and 6 billion for better and more rental apartments. But of course we still have challenges. Sweden's competitiveness depends on a business policy that allows each region to take advantage of and develop its strengths. At the same time, however, it must address the challenges common to Sweden as a country. That's where we need power. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, I would like to say that there is much that our parties agree on in the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on what needs to be done for improved business. I think that's a strength.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-25	Mr President, I would like to An ordinary day in Sweden, like this Thursday, 900 000 people don't go to work. The reasons vary. Not infrequently it may be that you have not finished high school or that you have quite recently come to Sweden. Prime Minister Löfven has acknowledged that by 2020 there can be as many as 1 million people who don't work a normal day. This is one of our greatest challenges in the coming years, both for these people and for society. I think it is important to bear in mind that there are 900 000 in exclusion while we see that there are many things that work very well in Sweden today. There are features in the economy. It's a boom. Many people have jobs and work a lot. Many Swedish companies are doing very well. The momentum of the economy enables new job opportunities for many people. But I believe that we need to be able to see both of these images at the same time – there are positive things but also bigger challenges for Sweden in the coming years. Along with a good business cycle, it is not only about exclusion but also about such a thing as the tough competition that Sweden and Swedish companies are constantly exposed to and on a daily basis. It's a tough competition. It's been said before. Sweden is a small and open economy. About half of our economy is linked to trade – that we import and export. Of course, producing high - voltage cables, passenger cars, sliding doors, or other things to sell them in countries in other parts of the world is an extremely great opportunity. But it also means a very tough competition. It may be the same Swedish companies that have production units in several countries competing against each other. It may be Swedish companies competing against competitors in other parts of the world with a different cost situation. Global and complex value chains of products and services make it incredibly complex. The conclusion for me and the Moderates is that we in Sweden cannot take anything for granted in this tough international environment. That is why, Mr President, we are landing in the fact that exclusion and competition issues are among the most important societal and nutritional challenges for Sweden in the coming years. It is for us moderates the starting point and the basis when we put forward concrete proposals in the Riksdag. I also know it's for my friends in the Alliance. We now have a government that is clear to Sweden in the wrong direction. I understand if you are not always so impressed if, as opposition representatives, I say so, but others also say so. The Business Council has asked a number of thousands of entrepreneurs in Sweden: Do you think that the regulatory burden has decreased or increased over the past two years with this government? Two out of three entrepreneurs say that the regulatory burden has increased. One in three entrepreneurs says it's unchanged. Only 1 per cent, one in a hundred entrepreneurs, feel that the regulatory burden has decreased over the last two years. It's a clear undergrad for Stefan Löfven and company. It is also a perfectly reasonable understatement if you look at many of the bad proposals for entrepreneurship that the government has had or has – it is more expensive to hire, less profitable to work, a deterioration of RUT, a deterioration of ROT, less opportunities to participate in public procurements and attempts to remove entrepreneurship in welfare activities. Well, then it's no wonder there's such a clear receipt with a sub-grade for the government. Another example, Mr President, is whether we are looking at exclusion and small businesses. So we know that 900 000 people do not go to work. We know that four out of five new jobs come in the smallest companies, and we have an incredible need for new jobs. Then what do Stefan Löfven and Mikael Damberg do? Well, the outline of a proposal would mean about a 25% tax increase for small businesses. In practice, therefore, surgical precision is being pushed into the heroes that we know can create new jobs and can push back the extensive exclusion. What Sweden needs is a new start and an alliance government that really and clearly prioritises entrepreneurship and jobs. You shouldn't do the way Stefan Löfven does-- he talks about it but doesn't have coverage for it. You're supposed to give real priority. That is why we are proposing a proper regulatory simplification package. We are talking about simplifications for entrepreneurs, commissions to authorities to remove and simplify rules, clearer requirements on processing times and transparency of fees. That is why we are proposing strong investment in the education system. For example, it is about more math and longer school days to make students better equipped for working life. That is why we propose an increased research with better collaboration between industry and academia. That is why we opt out of Magdalena Andersson's kilometre tax and rather say: We need longer and heavier trucks. We know that this is what the Swedish industry needs to cope with the competition they compete in every day. That is why we have proposals for employee options and more generous conditions. We know that this is what small innovative companies need to grow into. That is why we are making a targeted effort to create new businesses among newcomers. And that's why we take on the supply of skills – some are about our own education system, and another is about labour migration. That we attract talented people and hire them in the IT companies, in the restaurant kitchens and in Swedish healthcare is incredibly positive. But there we now have a bizarre order in Sweden. The government authorities say that foreigners who work, pay taxes and do the right thing may leave the country when we know that the need for good people is excruciating. At the same time, we have great alienation. There are many new arrivals, and one of the biggest issues in the social debate is: How are we going to get people to work? Then comes the signal from the government authorities that you can leave the country even though you work, pay taxes and do the right thing. It doesn't make sense. The Alliance has put forward concrete proposals to correct this. We will continue to do so. Mr President, I would like to Trade policy is an area of great concern to me. We can talk about Trump and the WTO. We are happy to continue to do so. But I also think that we should look a little more closely at the situation in Europe and at Sweden's role in Europe. Not long ago, a trade agreement between Europe and Canada would be discussed and decided. Then let's remember that Canada is one of the world's finest countries. It's modern, progressive and very similar to ours. What happened when the European Parliament voted on this? Well, there was a narrow majority voting in favour of the trade agreement. Many Swedish MEPs from the Social Democrats and the Green Party also chose to press the 'no' button in relation to such an important trade agreement. I would say that a political leadership in Sweden at this time is to stand up for free trade, stand up for trade agreements and stand up to remove protectionism and trade barriers. It is an incredible help for Swedish industry and the Swedish business community. Finally, I would like to endorse reservations 7, 12 and 19, but we naturally support all our proposals.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-39	Mr President, I would like to It was exciting listening to you, Lars. You told me a little bit about how you look at how Sweden is doing. We get relatively high grades from the outside world when it comes to how Sweden is doing. Since the elections, employment has increased by 150 000 people, of which 96 000 in the private sector. Unemployment has fallen to less than 7%. There are therefore several pictures of how it looks in Sweden. When I look at the number of exercises, I can see that Moderates' interest in the tourism industry has increased slightly – I am delighted. But I can also see that the proposals include assignments to Visit Sweden: to intensify the marketing of Sweden. The Government is investing SEK 120 million in promoting Sweden's fantastic travel directions. The proportion of the tourism industry has also increased. My question is simple: Why do the Moderates, despite these high ambitions in their movements, choose to lower the grant to Visit Sweden by 20 million?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-42	Mr President, I would like to What we should remember when we talk about various grants in this part of the state's budget is that when Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg says that she invests SEK 1 that is directed to a company, she raises the tax in the order of SEK 10 for the same company at the other end. The great concern of many companies is about regulatory issues, as we see in the survey from the Business Council. It is a lot about the uncertainty that comes with the government's proposal on kilometre tax, air tax, 3:12 and a lot of other things. You're worried about what's coming forward. I am the first to sign that there are many things that work very well in Sweden. It is basically a well-functioning country. We are in a boom that offers great opportunities for many people to enter the labour market. We have seen this in recent years, and that is of course extremely positive. But I also think it is important to raise your eyes and look ahead and see what are the bigger challenges over time. We know that the economic cycle sometimes goes up and down, and then we have to think about what is long-term right and good for Sweden. We can then say that exclusion is a huge challenge, because at the same time as the business cycle is good and many people have jobs and work a lot, 900 000 people do not go to work. We can see that while it's tough on good for many industrial companies in Sweden, we have a competitive situation that is very tough, and where we decision-makers need to think about how we can strengthen this in the long term. One of the answers for us is, of course, about the tourism industry and other important industries. But it is also about a broad reform package, about investments in start-ups, about regulatory simplification and reasonable tax conditions between Sweden and other countries. I note, Mr President, that the regulatory burden is increasing and that many companies are under-rating Anna ‐ Caren Sätherberg and the Social Democrats. We have concrete proposals to vote on this afternoon; yet the Social Democrats are voting against them. Why?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-49	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Helmered! As far as regulatory problems are concerned, it is true that there is an experience that it has increased since 2011. I can only take the view that it actually happened when Annie Lööf took over the Ministry of Industry, because Maud Olofsson was incredibly proactive in this matter. She wanted to reduce administrative costs and spent quite a lot of money on it and came to Parliament with this all the time. What we also see that needs to be done and that we work hard on is digitalisation. If we do not digitise public Sweden and meet up with the companies, we believe that the regulatory burden will increase further, and that is also stated in our answer. Lars Helmered speaks of 900,000 people, but how many of them study? How many of them have a cold? The figure of 900 000, which used to be 1 million, is very difficult to understand, because if you look at statistics it doesn't really look like that. Where does the number of the Moderates come from at 900,000? My second question concerns industry. We once had a prime minister in Sweden who said that the industry was very basically gone. I do not know if you have changed your mind, but if you look again at what resources you put in your draft budget, you will see that you choose to add 185 million less to business development. These include the Innovation Council and new industrialisation. How do the Moderates view such an important industry?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-54	Mr President, I would like to My professional background is in the important aerospace industry, so I know how important the industry is to Sweden. That view, of course, divides the entire Moderates, and it naturally permeates our entire budget programme. We need to strengthen Swedish industry in different ways. This can be seen in our proposals on trade policy, fiscal policy, infrastructure and other areas. I believe, however, that there is a difference, and it is a good thing that it comes out. It is because when Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg says that she invests something, for example 1 krona, she also raises the tax for the same company by 10 krona. I am also very much in favour of cooperation between industry and academia; there is no such aversion. I note that what Mrs Sätherberg says is not connected. You want to introduce mileage taxes, which we know is absolutely devastating for the important Swedish forest industry. AB Volvo, which is Sweden's largest company, says that it would mean SEK 400 million in increased costs for them to introduce Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg's kilometer tax proposal. They are directly exposed to competition and cannot simply roll over such a cost. We must be careful if we are serious about the importance of industry, and that is what permeates our policy. When it comes to exclusion, you can count on it, and that is in the order of 900 000 people. Either you can do like Anna ‐ Caren Sätherberg and trivialize this or we can see what is the big, relevant challenge. One can divide that some may be cold, absolutely, but we can also note that 250 000 people have come to Sweden in recent years, and it is a huge challenge to get people to work. Then it is a political responsibility to make decisions to get people to work, and that is what we are trying to do instead of trivialising and saying that this is not real. I'd say it's about people of flesh and blood. This is one of our biggest societal challenges ahead, and we need to have political proposals that facilitate entrepreneurship and jobs in a completely different way from what comes with this government.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-61	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Enterprise Committee's report NU12 Nutrition policy. How we handle business issues in politics is of course crucial for the economy, Swedish welfare and, at the end of the day, the quality of life in our country. In this report, the Swedish Democrats have five reservations which deal with life sciences, industrial policy and much more. Of course, we support all these reservations, but for time to come, I only ask for the approval of reservation 17. Mr President, I would like to When I last stood here, before Christmas, and debated the business section of the state budget, I chose to focus on the government's insane introduction of an ill-thought-out and ill-designed chemical tax on electronics, where the Swedish Democrats are unfortunately the only party that strongly opposes the proposal. I do not intend to dwell long on this issue today, but I would like to remind you that we are currently introducing a costly and administratively complicated electronic tax with a completely non-existent environmental benefit, and hundreds of jobs are likely to disappear from Sweden. Unfortunately, the business climate has to stand back for pointless placard politics. On the subject of pointless placard politics, the government also intends to introduce a flight tax that has attracted column metres with highly justified criticism. International routes are expected to move to our neighbouring countries. In Sweden, it is primarily the northern part that gets to take the biggest blow in the form of reduced mobility. Airports with profitability problems today are, of course, in danger of being driven over the precipice. Sweden is torn apart and the business climate is deteriorating – all for this meaningless placard policy to no environmental benefit. Social Democrats' concessions to the Green Party will cost Sweden dearly. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, I will now come to another important issue, namely the regulatory burden on Swedish companies. The very issue of burdensome rules and bureaucracy is something I myself devoted a lot of time to during the last summer break of Parliament, when I read into reports and talked to entrepreneurs and stakeholders to create as broad a picture as possible. The first thing to note is that the former alliance government actually had these issues high on the agenda and initiated several commendable initiatives. Well, unfortunately, few entrepreneurs are experiencing any real improvement as a result of these proposals. Rather, it is the opposite. A vast majority of entrepreneurs felt that the regulatory burden remained at the same level, and indeed some felt that it had become even worse after these measures. This was therefore before the current government's policy was implemented. The turn of government in 2014 appears to have exacerbated the situation further. Today, as many as one third believe that the regulatory burden has increased, while only 2% think it has decreased, this over the past year. Confidence in the government in this matter is very weak, according to a Skopfökning commissioned by the Business Council. If we want a business environment that can compete in the global market, this issue is an important piece of the puzzle. We simply need to be better at introducing rules that are adequate and where the benefits correspond to costs and administration. Here, I also mean that it is not just about rules that are about to be introduced – which we politicians often talk about – but it is also about finding systems to get rid of already introduced rules that do not match the benefits. There will be more about this soon. Mr President, I would like to In a sketch program from the late 80's, A huge number of programs, with the humor gang Galenskaparna and After Shave there was a gymnast that got stuck in the angle flip. Perhaps some of you remember this. The expression to get stuck in the angle flip is sometimes used a little jokingly if people who are stuck in a certain thought pattern and lack the ability to move on with new ideas. In fact, it feels a bit like politics has become bogged down in angle when it comes to matters of regulatory simplification. Each year, for example, the alliance parties reserve for the One Door project, which is a concept where companies must report all information via a public authority portal. The idea of this is, of course, a good one. The thing is, everyone else thinks so too. The government is working me on that question, and then it may be a little cake on cake to send announcements. That, in any case, is the background to the fact that we have not chosen to join this announcement. On the other hand, the Swedish Democrats, together with the alliance parties, are sending an announcement regarding the deadline for the administration. Here, too, it should be acknowledged that it is an issue that is partly on the government's agenda, albeit with separate proposals. However, in contact with various business representatives, it becomes clear that administrative times are sometimes excessively long and can cause considerable financial damage to entrepreneurs. Thus, it is a reasonable announcement. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats launched a motion for the Parliamentary Session with four concrete proposals aimed at reducing the regulatory burden for Swedish companies. I choose to go a little deeper on two of them. The first proposal concerns the introduction of a so-called stop function. It means that a new rule may not be introduced until the Council of Ministers has established that the impact assessment complies with the requirements of the Impact Assessment Regulation in an acceptable manner. Only then should the proposal go further in the process. The Swedish Democrats believe that the Rule Council should have this so-called stop function under certain given conditions, which we deepen in our motion. Today, the government can completely ignore the Council's assessment of a poor impact assessment, which is apparently used fairly regularly. For example, according to a press release from the Business Council, 30 percent of the Council's opinions have been completely ignored. This is certainly a contributing factor in the government's confidence in entrepreneurs in this area being alarmingly low. The second proposal I was going to raise is precisely that we politicians often talk a lot about rules that are about to be introduced. However, I believe that we must also raise the problem of rules that are already in place but cannot be said to comply with the proportionality between benefits and consequences. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats propose a new model in which the work is systematised and where business organisations can be involved in setting the agenda. The Swedish Democrats' proposal therefore begins with the possibility for business organisations to intervene in the rules that they consider to be the most problematic for business profitability and competitiveness. Then the Business Council acts as a coordinating body in contact with the government, which can then hand over a broad package to the government. In the next step, the Government will be asked to refer the proposals to the right ministries and authorities while giving the respective authority the task of responding to how to work with the questions and what to do in the future. It can very well be nothing, but then they have at least made a statement. In the last step, the Government is tasked with compiling the material and simply returning with a letter to the Riksdag. This model means that we Swedish democrats would speed up work on regulatory simplification of rules already in place, which has great potential to increase Sweden's companies' profitability and competitiveness towards the outside world – which in turn is job creation. It is very important in these times. Now it is less likely that the said model, which can be found in SD's reservation No 21, will be heard at the vote later today, but I would still urge you in the other parties to look at the issue, please look at our proposal, and then maybe we can do something together by next year.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-83	Mr President, I would like to According to Forbes, Sweden is the world's best country for entrepreneurship, and according to Bloomberg's index, Sweden is the world's most innovative economy. Sweden has also recently been praised by the OECD, which has expressed its support for fiscal policy. Unemployment has decreased since the government took over in 2014 from 8.7 percent to 7%, according to what I just saw on SCB's website. This is positive and something we need to hold on to. Sweden needs a viable business community, driven entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs and innovators to meet our needs for basic livelihoods, services and jobs, as well as the challenges we face in terms of increased economic divides, environmental and climate change. Sweden is an export-dependent country. Our business is largely based on a high level of knowledge, skilled employees, well-functioning security systems and a well-developed infrastructure. In many areas, Sweden is on the research front, and several Swedish companies are world leaders. Therefore, in order to remain competitive, we need to safeguard all these elements. I am therefore pleased that the government is investing so much in improving the quality of Swedish schools and higher education. Today, many companies find it difficult to find the skills they are looking for. Government investment in polytechnics and other forms of further education is therefore valuable. Strengthened security systems also increase labour market mobility and make it easier for people to change jobs and for businesses to acquire the skills they actually seek. Several of our large exporting companies depend on security of supply. The fact that the railway network has been neglected for a long time is negative for the competitiveness of Swedish companies. The government has significantly increased efforts on maintenance, and the future construction of the railways will increase both the availability of environmentally friendly transport and the security of these companies as disruptions in the transport chain can have major negative effects. Mr President, I would like to To support innovation, the government, as previous speakers have mentioned, has set up a National Innovation Council. AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg has explained more about its important work in her speech. The Government has previously established a study on the development of the innovation and entrepreneurship climate in Sweden. The investigation left its report last autumn. It has been out for a referral, and the answers are currently being prepared together with the investigation in the Government Office. For many small companies and new companies, other measures may be important, not least reduced regulatory constraints, lower thresholds for daring to hire their first employee and the ability to compete for specialist skills even if they are a relatively new and growing company. Rules shall be appropriate. Service, treatment and short processing times at public authorities are also of great importance for a good business environment. It is not always the case that the processing time itself is the problem, but it may be complicated to know what information you need to submit and when to submit it. The Government's simplification work during its term of office focuses on the areas of better service and more effective rules. It will be easier to submit data, and the processing times will be shortened. Authorities that have a lot of contacts with companies also have some kind of simplification mandate in their instruction, regulatory letter or special government assignments. A short time ago, the government also announced that it wants to develop growth support – the reduction of the employer's contributions for the first employee – to also apply to sole entrepreneurs operating in the form of limited liability companies or partnerships. For an entrepreneur who pays a monthly salary of SEK 25 000 to the employee, the proposal means that the salary cost is reduced by over SEK 63 000 during the first year the entrepreneur can receive the support. The Government's proposals on employee stock options create better opportunities for new small innovative companies to recruit skills. The government is making more investments in a variety of areas such as sustainable entrepreneurship, social entrepreneurship, female entrepreneurship, nature and ecotourism – most recently with the proposal to reduce VAT on nature guidance from 12 to 6 percent – cultural and creative industries, venture capital supply and more. All of this can be read more about in the Committee on Economic Affairs' report. Finally, of course, I support the joint reservations of the government parties in the report. For the time being, I do not support it, but otherwise support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-96	Mr President, I would like to Prior to the 2014 elections, the Green Party presented an election manifesto. There's a headline called New Yobbs. There is also a paragraph No 3, which says: Reduce the hassle and costs for entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs should be allowed to devote their time to running businesses and therefore the regulatory burden must be reduced. Mr President, I would like to A recent survey from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has been conducted asking a number of thousands of entrepreneurs: Do you feel that the regulatory burden for your company has become smaller or greater in the last two years? It was 64 per cent, two out of three entrepreneurs, who said that the regulatory burden and the regulatory burden have increased over the last two years with the Green Party at the helm. It is 32%, about one in three entrepreneurs, who say that the situation is unchanged. It is 1%, one in a hundred entrepreneurs, who say it has fallen. Two out of three entrepreneurs say that it has increased and say that it has become more complicated to start and run a business in recent years. At the same time, we have the Green Party's election manifesto and promise. Then I wonder: how do Jonas Eriksson and the Green Party view this understatement that comes from the country's entrepreneurs?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-99	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Helmered. I'm also very happy that you've read our election manifesto. I hope more people do. It is of course extremely important to feel that it is easy to start and run a business. I note that, for a period of time, the previous government submitted special letters to Parliament on the simplification of the rules, but that this work was closed. I believe that the last letter came in 2010 or 2011 and that it then ran out into the sand. I am therefore very pleased that the government nevertheless expresses an ambition in this area and has given specific assignments to authorities and other actors that the government has some kind of governance opportunity to work on these issues. It is also important to note the government's major commitment to digitalisation. When the fruits of it fall out, it will certainly help businesses in many ways. It is important both to submit applications and to have applications processed and answered. There, however, Sweden is relatively far at the forefront globally. There are not very many other countries where you are about to be able to digitally handle much of the administration that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in Sweden need to engage in.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-104	Mr President, I would like to If you ask entrepreneurs, it is usually the supply of skills that currently comes up as perhaps the most important issue in terms of economic features and the need to attract. Beyond this, however, there is the rule and regulatory burden as a frequent objection, not only from meat and blood business owners but also when looking at international surveys. The World Economic Forum, which has reviewed Sweden, says that the regulatory burden on the labour market and tax burdens is comparatively a disadvantage for Sweden. There are different examples, both locally and also nationally, where it causes problems in different ways. For example, reporting is such an area. I note that many good things were done by the Alliance. One can look at the way in which regulatory simplification was clearly prioritised in a way that we do not see in Mikael Damberg or other ministers at present. We know that it is a key factor in achieving success in removing the regulatory burden. Of course, part of this is to look at ways of working, how to systematically work in a government office or in a local municipality to facilitate and have a good dialogue with, for example, the local business community. In addition, we are talking about concrete policy proposals. A few years ago, for example, the audit obligatory was removed for most companies. With a bigger cut you could help and make things easier for many. The amounts for simplified invoices have been increased. I think you have to work with both of those pieces. Mr President, I would like to What we still see together when you ask entrepreneurs, as the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has done, is in fact that they give a strong understatement to the government. If one in a hundred entrepreneurs think that in practice it has become easier to start up and run a business, it is an understatement and something that should not really happen, given the desire to get more out of entrepreneurship and such things in the future. We are making a number of concrete proposals. It is a pity that the government parties are not prepared to join us on these important issues in this afternoon's vote.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-110	Mr President, I would like to These are important issues that Lars Hjälmered raises. I do not perceive that there are different levels of ambition or view of the need for it to be easy to run companies in Sweden between the government parties and the bourgeois parties. I'm open to discussing suggestions. But it is something that you may do considerably earlier before presenting them in a exercise. There are many different ways and openings from the government to discuss with the bourgeois parties. Welcome! We are open to dialogue on many issues.
i-WWJJhhpkndU7sAS2Aqgbgm	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the Alliance's reservations 12 and 19 and the Center Party's reservation 14. Mr President, I would like to Last Christmas, SVT showed the third season of Miss Friman. There are probably many of us who have been affected by the main characters' struggle for an equal Sweden. The series takes place in the early 1900s. We are here to follow Miss Friman, who together with several other women starts Svenska Hem – a cooperative company that was formed as a protest against, among other things, the male society. Although there were actually some enterprising women who ran tailoring, breweries, inn and shops already in the 1800s, it was in the latter part of the 20th century that women seriously became more equal in Sweden. More people entered the labour market, but perhaps not as entrepreneurs to such a large extent. The entry was largely linked to the emergence of the public sector, where many women got jobs, including my own mother. Mr President, I would like to The irony is that what contributed a lot to our gender equality has also led us to lag behind in Sweden when it comes to women's entrepreneurship. An important explanation is that the public sector has not previously been exposed to competition and that many women have their jobs here. On the other hand, it can be seen that a turnaround began when the alliance government introduced the possibility of deducting domestic services, also called RUT, and the Freedom of Choice Act, LOV, where municipalities and county councils could be exposed to competition by private operators. That is why it is somewhat shocking to see that the government, which also calls itself feminist, is doing everything possible to hijack the welfare companies at its ankles. You've set up an investigation to put a cap on the profits in this area. Investigator Ilmar Reepalu has now presented a proposal that would be fatal to these companies, many companies that are also owned and run by women. Mr President, I would like to About a month ago I visited the only private health centre outside Umeå and Skellefteå in Västerbotten. It's Medical Consultant AB in Lycksele. It is owned by Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm and her husband. She told me that she was very worried when she saw the demands of this investigation that Ilmar Reepalu has now presented. She had an economist figure out what this would mean for her health center, and you know what? The company would go down. They would thus not be able to afford any salary increases for staff. They wouldn't be able to afford to buy new equipment. They wouldn't be able to plan for the future. So they would be allowed to close down their company, and the 4,500 patients listed in this health centre would not receive the care they have chosen and are satisfied with. Mr President, I would like to The feminist government won't stay there. In addition, you have chosen to remove all targeted efforts for women's entrepreneurship. During the time of the alliance government, several successful projects were run, for example, by Almi. One was the Board of Directors, which aimed to educate and get more women to take place in the boardrooms. Another was a project aimed at migrant women's entrepreneurship. In view of all the new Swedes who come to Sweden now, it would be excellent to continue with this initiative. But no. Today, only one in three entrepreneurs is a woman, and that is a pretty bad rating given that Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries. Efforts and targeted efforts are needed to change this. It benefits everyone, not least the Swedish economy. Mr President, I would like to Many entrepreneurs feel that there are too many rules, which means that they spend far too much time on administration rather than developing their business. Unfortunately, it also seems that the rule work has stagnated. Lawyer Göran Grén recently published the report A Challenged Sweden. There he writes about the regulatory problems for companies in the country. Grén believes that the government spends far too little on the issue and says that the rule improvement work has stopped. On the Swedish Enterprise's website you can read an interview with the same Göran Grén, who says: The numbers are alarming. The regulatory burden is increasing and Sweden is falling into the OECD's ranking, and we are lagging behind several of our main competitors who are working seriously with regulatory improvement to facilitate their business. ..................................................... You will be aware that before a new rule is introduced, an impact assessment will always be carried out to see how companies will be affected by the rule in question. Unfortunately, the majority of investigations have failed to measure up. The Council's latest report shows that of the 43 referrals sent by the Government Office, 81% did not meet the requirements. The Ministry of Finance submitted 21 impact assessments. 19 were rejected by the Rule Council, and from the Ministry of Justice there was no investigation at all. It won't hold. For example, the Center Party wants rules to have a so-called sunset clause. It means setting an end date for a rule. In order for it to continue to apply, it must be reconsidered and its pros and cons weighed against each other. Another proposal is the principle of a rule in – a rule out, which means that new rules entailing costs should be met by corresponding reductions in costs in the form of the removal of other rules. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say a few words about tourism. It is growing in Sweden, and it is gratifying. It's one of our basic nutrients. Not least, this is something that the countryside has longed for and so badly needs. By 2030, global tourism is estimated to have increased by 66 percent. For me it is not at all strange to think that Sweden can at least take one or a few percent of this. But to reach the goal there are some things to think about. It is not possible to increase the costs for companies in this industry, because the margins are quite small already as they are. Therefore, higher costs for hiring the medicine are not to get the industry to develop. It is also not very good for the industry with the aviation tax that the government will introduce at the turn of the year. Erica Mattsson is CEO of the Swedish Lapland Visitors Board, and she has recently written in a debate article at SVT Opinion that the tax will not reduce flying or the burden of flying on the environment. On the other hand, it will create major problems for the tourism industry outside the major cities, not least in northern Sweden. In fact, even the Social Democrats' own municipal councillors, including Niklas Nordström in Luleå and Hans Lindberg from Umeå, are openly very critical of the Social Democrats' recent attacks on the countryside and northern Sweden. A few weeks ago I went to Kiruna. On the plane there were about half of the passengers tourists from the United States, Australia, Japan, China and England. Yes, I'm sure there were more nationalities in place. They were probably on their way to experience the beautiful and magical aurora in Kiruna. Maybe they'd go dog sledding and visit the Ice Hotel in Jukkasjärvi. The day in Kiruna allowed me to see with my own eyes what a great destination this part of Sweden is. A flight tax would be fatal for this part of the country and also for the countryside, and indeed the risk is that it would make tourists choose other destinations in other countries. Furthermore, Mr President, even the State-owned airline SAS has announced that they may close certain domestic routes as a result of this tax. It would be a manslaughter battle against the business community, and when it does not yield any major environmental benefits, one can really wonder how the government thinks.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-130	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Helena. There is one thing in your speech that I share the view on, and that is that Sweden really needs more women entrepreneurs. However, my opinion is that they should not be locked into just one industry, but I want to see them operate in all sectors. I think that's important. But that's not what I want to talk about right now. Yesterday, the Center Party said that it now wants to send Sweden into the political circus that Annie Lööf was so clearly opposed on 19 January. We therefore want to stop the government's proposals for tax increases and, with that, the government's proposals for reforms. Mr President, I would like to If we now want to boost consumption in society and turn the wheels of business, it is not only good policy but also effective to invest in those in society who have lower incomes. There was just a flash that the government now wants to invest in 1.4 million of Sweden's pensioners. In 2014, the Center Party, together with the rest of the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats, voted down the government's draft budget. It was also not good for Sweden's pensioners, because the government's proposal included a reduction in the unfair pensioner's tax that you introduced. My question is: what is your answer to the country's pensioners today? Are you and the Center Party once again, as in 2014, prepared to say no to the government's efforts on pensioners and make it even more difficult for the country's poor, female pensioners? Where is your answer to the country's pensioners, Helena Lindahl?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-135	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the question, AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg! I do not really know what your reduction in the tax on pensioners has to do with today's debate on economic policy, because it does not really belong here. However, I can say that in order for the country's pensioners to receive a decent pension in the future, we need more people who work and therefore more businesses that are set up, not least by women. We certainly do not need high taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. Because that's exactly what you do with your other hand. It is great to reduce taxes on pensioners, but in the long run your taxes are detrimental to future pensioners. That's the thing. I do not really know what else to answer this, because the pensioner question does not really belong to today's debate. I think I will stay there and say that a guarantee for future pensioners is that we are investing in companies and not raising taxes so that more people choose to close down. That's what you do in the welfare business. Many women and others will have to close down their businesses, and people will thus lose their jobs. Fewer people will be able to contribute to future pensions. It is a small tip that I can send along to Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg and the Social Democrats.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-138	Mr President, I would like to The link was, of course, that if you invest in those with the lowest income, it is known that consumption is increasing. Then you also know that it is a good policy for business. If you lower the tax on those with high incomes, they will not act as much. But for the business community, predictability and order and order in the state's finances are, in fact, incredibly important. We have remained in the same place all along and tried to work with many cross-block agreements. But the Center Party and the rest of the Alliance have given different answers one day after the other. First, the government's budget fell. Another day the December Agreement fell. A third day makes one a move that the others do not support. And now the Center Party is making a move that we don't know who supports. This cannot be easy for business. That is why I once again wonder: how do Helena Lindahl and the Center Party think precisely about the business community and the important thing in that there is always predictability and a long-term perspective, so that one dares to invest and not throw Sweden out into a political circus?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-142	Mr President, I would like to AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg says that business needs order and long-term rules of play. I can certainly agree with that. But does AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg call this profit discussion about welfare, which is about many women and others being allowed to shut down their businesses because you want to restrict in a socialist way their ability to earn a penny from the well done work that they do and that will also prevent patients from choosing their own care, for order and order? Does Anna-Caren Sätherberg call the tax at a distance for order? And does AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg call the destructive airline tax order? There are very many Social Democrats in northern Sweden – I think Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg knows about it – who are highly critical of these taxes. For they will be fatal to our part of the country. Already today we find it difficult to compete in a global market because Sweden is very large geographically. If it is to be even more expensive to bring goods to the continent, to Europe, this will cause many of these companies to go bankrupt. I really wonder what AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg means when she says order, because this is definitely quite the opposite.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-144	Mr President, I would like to According to the National Cyclopedian, the Center Party is described in literature as a conservative party. It feels a little bit like I get that picture confirmed when I hear Helena Lindahl talking about female entrepreneurship. The picture is that gender equality for the Center Party is that women should continue to be in the women-dominated industries. Equality in this context will only be achieved if you work with it as an employee, as a self-employed person or as a small business. I find that very unfortunate. The connection to RUT and ROT can of course be discussed. Looking at how these reforms have developed, they have become something that governments, both the past and the present, have spent more resources on each year. This means that this capital of course continues to work in these sectors. Only when there is a reduction in these deductions does it actually mean a reduction in the hours worked in this sector. So changing the system is not the same as reducing the basis for this type of entrepreneurship, but dividing it in a different way. I would like to ask what the Center Party is really thinking about actually tackling structural problems in the labour market – the unequal labour market and the structural problem of inequality in entrepreneurship. You say no to quotas for company boards, and you say no to shared parental insurance. It is perhaps the two most important structural measures that would seriously change these issues.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-149	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jonas Eriksson for the question. No, I would not say that the Center Party is a conservative party and that equality for us is that women should be in women-dominated industries. What I actually said in my speech was that a great many women are in the healthcare sector because there is a historical link. When many women started working in the 1960s and 1970s, many started working in this particular sector, which has also made us one of the world's most equal countries in the labour market. But it has also had a negative consequence, that is, because it has not been allowed to set up and run businesses in this sector with public funds, it has locked many women in. That's what I'm saying. We will invest in women in all sectors. I just wanted to make this clear. You call yourself a feminist government. But I wonder what that means in practice. I was both sad and upset when I saw that you took away all the efforts directed at women's entrepreneurship. Yesterday I met Almi. They had a great investment in immigrant women's entrepreneurship that was necessary. They would have liked to continue with this initiative and perhaps expand it, not least now that there are many new Swedes coming to Sweden. It does not help, Jonas Eriksson, that you then just point with your whole hand at the authorities and say that they will increase the proportion of women who start and run companies. And you don't send any money bag to do anything about it. I find that very sad. Jonas Eriksson also says that we say no to quotas for company boards. Yes, we do. But why do you say no to the women on the floor? You want the kind of policy that you pursue to prevent women in the care sector from owning and running businesses. Ilmar Reepalus's proposal for a ceiling for profits in welfare will be fatal, Jonas Eriksson.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-154	Mr President, I would like to Ilmar Reepalus's proposal is Ilmar Reepalus's proposal. I will briefly comment on the targeted efforts for female entrepreneurship. The former bourgeois government made efforts, for example on ambassadors for female entrepreneurship. This has been evaluated by Growth Analysis, which concluded that there was a small – little not in a positive sense but little in a negative sense – potential to change the traditional image of female entrepreneurship. Our assessment is therefore that we need to bring about major structural changes in order to actually get to grips with this. The fact that these measures have not been effective means that it does not make sense either to have such targeted contributions to this type of activity. On the other hand, Almi and Tillväxtverket still have a very clear mission to work with a strategy for men and women, regardless of their ethnic background and age, to be able to take part in business promotion measures in an equal way. Almi has been given a clear mandate to focus in its work a special focus on women and people with foreign backgrounds. Tourism is very important. Helena Lindahl mentioned it and also the ice hotel in Jukkasjärvi in her speech. Then came the discussion about the airline tax. The Arctic has been 20 degrees warmer than normal this year. It is not certain that we will have an ice hotel in Jukkasjärvi if we do not take climate change seriously. I don't know if the Center Party is saying that flights should not actually pay their own costs. You can interpret it that way when it is said that the flight should be tax-free while other modes of transport should not be. Then I will mention a more rhetorical part, because this is not really about that part of the debate. The Center Party says no to Climate Change, to urban planning agreements and to more protection of forests. This can't be done.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-161	Mr President, I would like to I don't really know where to start and where to stop. But I was going to briefly say the following. During the time of the alliance government, we spent 100 million a year on women's entrepreneurship. Some bets may not have been so successful. Others were more successful. But we wanted to. You are spending exactly zero crowns, and you think that it is enough to point the whole hand at the authorities and say that they must change their figures and that there must be more women among the entrepreneurs. I learned yesterday, for example, that 80% of Almi Invest's investments still go to men. This is also the case in the business world. I therefore agree that structural changes are also needed. But it is also naive to think that one can only point and say that we should now change things without also being prepared to bet a penny. As far as the air tax is concerned, the Green Party and the government are shooting in the wrong direction. If we are serious about this being good for the environment, that is to say that it reduces emissions, should we not have directed the tax on emissions and not, as at present, put the cost on passengers' tickets? It will not make things better for the environment. Even the investigator has said that it has a marginal impact on the environment. If the tax had been levied on fuel, there would have been an incentive to switch to biofuels. Those who run on dirty fuel, so to speak, would then have to pay more. But now you're shooting in the wrong direction. You're taxing the passengers here, not the fuel. This will also make it difficult for airlines to switch, because they will have to spend even more money on passengers' tickets. It will also have a negative impact on the business community, not least for us in northern Sweden. For those living in the south, it is much easier.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-168	Mr President, I would like to Today's debate and report deal, among other things, with business promotion, state venture capital, regulatory simplification and specific industries. In response to a motion for a resolution, the committee proposes to the government that all authorities that companies come into contact with should set clear deadlines for their processing times. That's right, but what I miss is of course requirements for companies too – that they should have filled out all the information correctly so that the matter can be dealt with quickly and efficiently. If I were to ask workers who have short employment and need an employer's certificate to the unemployment fund when these short employment contracts end, most of them will say that the rules are complicated and that the unemployment fund usually lacks a properly completed employer's certificate. I am not saying that it is only the fault of companies, nor am I saying that it would be to the detriment of having clear deadlines for the administration of the authorities, but we must ensure that everyone does their utmost to ensure that the rules established are easy to comply with and that they are legally assured. The government has launched measures to deal with processing times and the quality of treatment and so on. That's why open doors are being opened in this case. The committee believes that an active business policy should support companies by developing the business environment and strengthening the conditions for more people to want to start businesses and make them grow and perhaps even export. However, the development of companies requires, in addition to active enterprise policy, public investment in infrastructure, research, housing, education and climate change. When I read sports that have an undertone that shows that it is too expensive to hire or that the tax burden is too heavy in Sweden, I have to say to these athletes: How have we managed to become the welfare country that we actually are? The truth is that the SAF in the past and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise today have had exactly the same doomsday picture of everything going in the wrong direction and we are losing competition. I can agree that it is of the utmost importance that we keep the level of knowledge high, that we invest in research and development and that we constantly train for tomorrow's tasks. Sure, when I visit companies I often hear that they express concerns about competitive disadvantages, but usually the problem is not the cost of employees, but it is about other reasons. The fact that it is difficult to find the right skills when they hire is definitely one of the problem descriptions that I get to see. Then there are lots of entrepreneurs who say that it is quite good to be an entrepreneur in Sweden. In the report we are debating today, which is called NU12 Nutrition Policy, there would be so much to touch on, but of course it will be impossible in my eight minutes. However, as a Northern resident, I must mention something about venture capital or capital supply in general. These are very different conditions from the start when someone with a good business idea in Norrland is looking for start-up capital compared to someone in growth cities, where the properties only increase in value daily. In these cases, state intervention with early stage venture capital is needed to complement what the private market is unable to ensure. Saminvest AB should be given the time to demonstrate that it is capable of supporting innovative companies with growth potential, and I mean companies throughout the country, including those that are active in the sparsely populated areas. Mr President, I would like to Here it is appropriate that I mention a little about different industries. The computer center industry is something that has come into being as a new industry in Sweden. The investment needs in the industry are great, and the government believes that Sweden has good conditions for attracting these investments. This also applies to those parts of the country that find it difficult to attract other new business start-ups. I was very happy when I, together with the others from Norrbottensbänken– by the way, the speaker was also there – got to visit such an industry in Boden and got to see how research is conducted in Luleå to make us even more attractive in the computer server hall race. I think, of course, that we should try to attract such investments to northern Sweden and preferably to places that do not have the other growth benefits. However, they usually have a secure supply of electricity, and there is also a surplus of electricity. Such excess electricity is not available in southern Sweden If I am going to mention something else about industries that should and should be given priorities in rural areas, I should of course mention green industries, and the forestry industry in particular. Here is the natural connection because the raw material is right there in the outback – or in litter areas, or how were these peripherals described in the media by some urban followers? If it is to develop and expand further processing somewhere, it is of course close to the raw material. Wood - based housing is something that I'm going to nag about every time I get the opportunity to do so. Mr President, I would like to Here I think it is appropriate that I highlight our reservation 26 on the tourism industry and call for its approval. Sweden is a country that attracts visitors from near and far. We in the Left Party would like to highlight the Swedish countryside as a good example of what attracts visitors. There are particularly good conditions for niche ecotourism initiatives. For example, tourism's connection to locally produced food is something that we see more and more. The Left Party wants to invest in the tourism industry. In particular, mountain and rural tourism must be valued and seen as an important industry from a regional policy perspective. It is welcome to be the subject of a larger part of future infrastructure investments. In order to develop the Swedish tourism industry, I believe that the state, in cooperation with municipalities, associations and companies, should take increased responsibility for attracting visitors to the whole of Sweden. The government should put forward proposals for cooperation programmes for the tourism industry, so that it achieves the same status as other sectors. I would also like to point out that many municipalities, especially rural municipalities, are making major financial efforts to increase the number of tourists. But even if tourism in a municipality increases, the economic outcome is not always positive. Instead, the profits of the increased tourism industry often end up with private operators, often living far outside the municipality, who own residential facilities and other activities. At the same time, tourism costs fall on the municipality, such as waste management, water and sewage and much more. In many parts of Europe and the world, the municipality charges a local fee for overnight stays in the municipality. This means that as a guest, in addition to paying the hotel owner for the bed, you also pay a small fee to the municipality for the general service you get. In many places in Europe, the fee is EUR 1, i.e. barely SEK 10. Such a bed charge would give power over the development of the local tourism industry to local decision-makers. The government should investigate how to continue working on such a proposal.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-188	Mr President, I would like to Sara lives her life in freedom. She has long working hours, but she gets to work with what she loves. She takes the lead and dares to be her own instead of being employed. She gets up when everyone else is asleep to bake your bread, fix your shoe or run your bid. Sara is a welfare-making hero. Sara's an entrepreneur. Saras's freedom is under attack from the world's highest tax burden, from a regulatory burden that grows for every Reepalu investigation that the government imposes and from protectionism that unites both right-wing and left-wing extremists in their opposition to globalisation. Saras's freedom is worth defending, in Brussels as well as here in Stockholm. Mr President, I would like to Behind every job-creating company stands a proud meat and blood entrepreneur – a person who has once taken the first step towards self-realization, self-sufficiency and job creation. Every entrepreneur is a hero of freedom, which every day helps to make the everyday life of our citizens a little freer. The entrepreneur's revenues guarantee our tax base, which will then go to preschool places, to police officers and to the government's industrial chancellors and innovation councils. But, Mr President, an entrepreneur is not naive. All of this and more is clear to the one who has taken the step. The question is whether the government knows that this is the basis of our prosperity. The question is what message is being sent to enterprising young women and men who are training, starting their own business and facing a huge regulatory burden and a flood of labour law obstacles and tax increases. What's going to get the entrepreneur to get up at 10 a.m. 05 instead of 07? What will cause the entrepreneur to welcome another apprentice into the profession and watch the person take a journeyman's letter or master's letter? What will make the entrepreneur develop his product and launch it on the other side of the world? Mr President, I would like to It is high time to accept that entrepreneurship must pay off. Those who are enterprising should have paid for their efforts, and this freedom is worth defending. Mr President, I would like to Once a decision on a new rule, tax or charge comes, entrepreneurs sit on needles. The question that then arises is whether there is a limit to how well-regulated the government wants society to be. Does the government have any limit on how much the grower will be allowed to keep of what it earns? Is it about half remaining, which was previously a slogan, or should you keep 25% of what you earn? How much growth is allowed before it has to be combated? I'll send that question to the majority. It is spoken around but kept thin. The government says it is investing in export promotion, in an industrialisation strategy and in a so-called active industrial policy. I myself wonder how effective these efforts will really be. My view is that Swedish companies need less – not more – interference from politics and the public. Swedish companies need long-term conditions for a more innovative and creative business environment. It is about the conditions for entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship and research and development. In particular, we are dealing with long-term rules on taxation and the conditions for a stable and competitive energy supply and transport infrastructure. It is my liberal belief that the state cannot create jobs and businesses, but well the conditions for them. The starting point for our policy is therefore that it should pay off to take risks, but then the conditions for the country's companies must be adapted to the challenges that entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs face in the wake of globalisation and digitalisation. As the old chairman of the Entrepreneurs, I am proud that four out of five jobs are created in small businesses. But when it comes to business legislation, we have to start thinking small-scale first. This applies to start-ups as well as global expansion. Corporate taxation and the regulatory burden are currently disadvantageous to welfare-creating SMEs. I am thinking not only of the regulatory burden faced by every entrepreneur, whether you have a large HR department or if you force yourself through it in other ways, but I am thinking above all of the current corporate taxation – the so-called 3:12 rules. These rules came into being to prevent small businesses working in their own companies from being taxed at more favourable rates than ordinary employees. The system has sometimes been described as the most complicated that has been created since Rubik's cube. Now the government wants to further reduce the regulatory framework for the trader who is trying to do the right thing. This is not good. When the companies are doing well, Sweden is doing well. For this reason, the Liberals have presented about a hundred reform proposals to develop the role of the municipality, the region and the national administration as an enabler and supporter for businesses. It is about reducing the regulatory burden and making it easier for our new Swedes to start a business, so that the entrepreneurship Zlatan gets playing time on our court. It is also about the absurdity of entrepreneurs paying for the whole of Sweden's welfare, but they themselves do not get a share of it. The security system, such as the calculation bases for SGI and parental insurance, must be adapted so that it also applies to entrepreneurs, because entrepreneurs are also parents. Mr President, I would like to The future is global, and the global affects the local. The flow of people, goods and capital affects us, and above all it affects our welfare model. In order to meet this development, municipalities and regions need to see themselves as an enabler in a global competition for excellence, entrepreneurship talent and trade flows. We need to be better at listening to companies and the challenges they face in the era of globalisation. I am not in favour of all reservations for the time to come, but I am in favour of reservations 5, 12 and 19.
i-DZwLgDfsZj47KZmzuNqwis	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the Alliance's reservations 12 on women's entrepreneurship, and 19 on regulatory simplification, as well as for the Christian Democrats' reservation 16 on labour integration social enterprises and the possibility of a state fund for social economy entrepreneurship. Today we are debating a large area, which concerns almost everything in the field of industrial policy. There are a lot of investigations about the conditions for entrepreneurship – something that is essential for more people to be able to get a job here in Sweden. But where is Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg in the discussions that are taking place about the investigations? I'm afraid we don't see him here today either. In the area of nutrition, the Minister is completely invisible. By having appointed councils and collaboration groups, he has skilfully ensured, together with the Prime Minister, that people who would have had the power and influence to possibly oppose all the proposals that come from the government are tied up. My colleague Helena Lindahl from the Center Party mentioned the important function of the Rule Council, which will see whether new legislative proposals contribute to increased or reduced regulatory problems. It is said from there that decisions on new and amended rules are still taken, although the impact assessments are not sufficient. My colleague mentioned figures related to this and the shortcomings of the whole. This is not sustainable! If we are now serious about simplifying and improving Swedish companies, whether small, large or medium-sized, one of the most important functions is to see whether new legislative proposals improve or impair the conditions for administration and management of entrepreneurship. Clearly, we do not want impact assessments here. Perhaps it is understood that much of what is being tried to introduce actually means a deterioration for companies. I don't know. Damberg also tried to hide under the party cape together with the Chairman of the LO in a debate article a few weeks ago. How, then, is it that the figures in unemployment statistics are put to the fore but completely forgets the content of labour market and industrial policy? This contributes to uncertainty in the sector by industry and de facto reduces the possibility of employment in the future. I will mention some of the major question marks of many both small and large companies and their holders. Who has seen Damberg out in the debate about welfare companies? If all companies are important to Sweden, how can you argue that companies in a particular industry can be imposed a profit ban? How does this fit with the principle of equality between companies? How many investors are interested in entering the healthcare industry, or the education industry, by all means, in these extremely loose boliners? At the same time, they are out in other parts of the world, for example in the United States last year, and market Swedish healthcare and how well it works through, for example, the Swecare Foundation. If the whole of Sweden is to live, people must be able to travel to their jobs. Increased fuel prices make it more difficult for many people who live outside urban areas and need their own car. On the other hand, the promise of being able to obtain CSN loans for driving licences has also not been fulfilled. Of course, the Kilometer tax is another story. The employment integration social enterprises, which have long been outside the ordinary labour market, have been reduced from SEK 50 000 to SEK 25 000 in the RUT deduction. This has meant that those offering cleaning services have seen the number of customers decrease in many cases. At the same time, the Public Employment Service, through political decisions, has ensured that those who have been in phase 3 and work training have not been allowed to remain there but have had to go to absolutely nothing. Who would have accepted these people if they had not done so? I'm just asking. I would like one of my colleagues from the other side to have explained to me which other companies are receiving the people who do not accept the work-integrated social enterprises. I would have been very interested in hearing that. In this way, it has helped companies in this case to turn down offers and customers due to a shortage of staff. Apart from losing revenue through the reduction of the RUT deduction, they have not been able to carry out the tasks they have received. Ylva Johansson and Mikael Damberg launched a so-called programme for ASF at a press conference last year. What this programme has meant now, both Johansson and Damberg have been asked about in this House last week and this week but have not had any answers. So one hand does not know what the other is doing. I have two more examples. One is simple jobs. VAT has been reduced for minor repair services, such as the repair of bicycles and shoes. It is, of course, a very good idea that would create more of the so-called simple jobs, which is an expression that I, as a Christian Democrat, am opposed to. However, since this type of work is either carried out by self-employed workers, such as shoe making and key services, or by work-inclusive social enterprises, this type of action is obviously not enough. Has anyone in this House been to a shoe shop with 10 to 20 employees? At least I never was. And how many of us hand in shoes all the time that makes it possible for a shoemaker to hire five people and believe that you can live on it? No, this won't hold. It is a good measure, yes, but it does not agree with just such simple proposals. It is rather the proposals that are simple than the jobs. The second example is the 3:12 rules and the option system. Here there are two more investigations that have not, I might say, taken to the approval of the companies. Both areas are very important for Swedish companies as well as international companies that want to operate in Sweden. We heard here before that VAT is reduced for nature tours. Yes, but there are still three VAT rates in the tourism industry: 6, 12 and 25 %. I like the tourism industry; it is one of my core areas of business policy. But this is not enough. How many guides are we going to have with 6% VAT? I'm sorry, but you should come up with a little bigger reforms if you do! Another suggestion came the other week to make it easier to hire your first person in an individual firm. With my background as a business advisor, I can say that I would never give the advice to an individual firm holder to hire a person, because the regulatory framework is so incredibly difficult and the contacts with the Tax Agency and others are completely impossible. I still think it's a pretty good idea to stick to the possibility of taking part in the Council's impact assessments and proposals. Mr President, I would like to I choose to end with that we simply have to realise that the opportunity to create jobs in Sweden is not about talking about simple jobs. If so, it is a matter of day-to-day services. But it is also a matter of seeing that one cannot counteract the other. If the so-called cooperation government has a content in its cooperation, it must be seen that one department and one minister cannot do one thing for themselves without affecting another area of another department and another minister. Then you have to talk to each other. This does not hold for the Swedish business community, whether it is a small work integration social company or a large group.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-229	Mr President, I would like to I was not really going to ask for a reply, but because there were so obviously false statements in the speech by Penilla Gunther, I could not help but do not. It was the first step in growth support that included self-employed workers in the individual firm. What the government has now proposed is that this reform be extended to include limited companies and partnerships. It meets the criticism that I personally understand very well towards the first stage of the reform. But here comes step two. It is an initiative that means that an entrepreneur who gives a salary of approximately SEK 25 000 can save a salary cost equivalent to SEK 63 000 in one year. Social and cooperative entrepreneurship is also very important for the Red-Green Government, and state venture capital is now opening up the opportunity in a way that never before for this type of company to apply for funds. I do not quite understand what Penilla Gunther is basing her sweeping speech on. For me, it's just empty talk.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-233	Mr President, I would like to It does not matter if you say that you take step two when you still stick, as I understand it, at step one when it comes to employment in an individual firm. Even partnerships are really an impossible form of company to hire people in, and I say this precisely with my background as a business advisor. Stock companies are another thing. However, if you still maintain step one, you have not understood this with the conditions for entrepreneurship to be able to have employees. When it comes to work integration social enterprises, I think Jonas Eriksson is well aware of my knowledge in this area. It has therefore made it more difficult for these companies and not least for those who are there. I am chairman of the association Skoopi Sverige. We see figures of an increased number of bankruptcies in these small companies, as the conditions have deteriorated from both the Employment Service and the Social Insurance Agency. It does not help to allocate 60 million to the Swedish Agency for Growth and Business Development when, at the same time, it makes it difficult for these people to actually get to work-integrated social enterprises with the aid available, i.e. sickness benefits, support for living or anything else. Here it is rather that Jonas Eriksson does not even have empty talk to make, but here it is completely empty of proposals and measures that strengthen these companies.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-239	Mr President, I would like to At least it's nice that Penilla Gunther thinks it's positive that limited companies can get a form of growth support to hire their first employee. But when it comes to criticism of the other parts, does Penilla Gunther really think that it is negative that partnerships and individual entrepreneurs have an opportunity that they themselves choose if they want to take advantage of? Do Penilla Gunther and the Christian Democrats want to ban this type of entrepreneur from taking part in a support that the government is prepared to give them if they see for themselves a need and interest in using it?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-241	Mr President, I would like to No, but it is a complete inconsistency in this way of dealing with forms of employment and the extent to which one has a certain type of company. Co-operative companies, that is, economic associations and non-profit associations, are constantly excluded. Social economy entrepreneurship never facilitates the possibility of hiring. Instead, you turn to the traditional. For me, people can be hired in any form of company. Just like Jonas Eriksson, I think you should choose for yourself. But where is the support for economic and non-profit associations that want to employ? We never see anything of that. For a number of years, money has been spent on developing cooperative entrepreneurship in Sweden. But you never make it easier for those who choose this form of business. It is interesting, and I personally have been pushing this on many issues, not least with regard to state venture capital.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-244	Mr President, I would like to During my 15 politically active years, I have valued study visits in various activities very highly. It gives an incredible amount to shine on the door of a home help group, factory or shop somewhere in the country, meet employees, staff manager and CEO and hear about success as well as hardships. As a Member of Parliament, I noticed early on that the small businesses whose reality I wanted to take part in rarely came to the industry organisations' events in the big cities; they were busy working in their company. Instead, I have invited myself to all the country's party districts and to date I have come about three quarters of an hour along the way. I have visited companies from Karesuando in the north to Malmö in the south. These are lots of small and a little larger companies that have opened the door for me, something for which I am deeply grateful. Of course, I cannot claim scientificness for my knowledge journey, but the visits are an important indication of how Swedish companies are doing. Mr President, I would like to My conclusion is that Sweden is doing very well. That is not to say that the future would be free from challenges. That is by no means the case. But the doomsday atmosphere that is being painted in some places does not seem to me to be consistent with reality. Most small businesses I meet highlight challenges such as generation shifts, growing pains, condition processes and skills provision. Overall, however, they are fairly consistent that Sweden is a good country to run companies in. We have a low level of corruption, a high level of transparency and authorities that actively work with digitalisation as well as accessibility. A request has been expressed on a number of occasions, and it is a matter of long-termism. A small business owner of Halland put it this way: I can chew up almost anything as long as I understand the purpose and also know that the change has a certain sustainability, preferably past the next choice. It may sound like a low-hanging fruit, but those of us who work in this House know that it is easier said than done. However, the wish is clear: the long-term nature of political decisions, preferably past the next elections. Many small businesses also bear witness, fortunately, to the awareness of political will. For example, several have highlighted the importance of organisations with clear assignments, such as Business Sweden's focus on export promotion. The feelings for Arbetsförmedlingen are mixed. Some never recruit through the agency, while others are extremely satisfied with the support they receive. The government's goal of Sweden having the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020 is something that many small businesses notice. They are courted about internships and other efforts, but they also notice that Arbetsförmedlingen uses its toolbox differently to meet both the company's and the individual's needs. Many small businesses have great impatience in finding new staff. This applies to everything from chefs to CNC operators and various health workers. In many respects, Sweden goes as a train, and many Swedish companies go very well. They will grow further as new employees are continuously matched with the needs of companies. For those companies that have it a little tougher, the administrative part as well as sometimes the price of shipping or the fear of taking the step and hiring their first employee. It has therefore been a pleasure to be able to tell more about the government's investment in growth support in discussions with small businesses. This provides a great relief during the first year of employment for those who employ their first employee. A little over a week ago, the good news was that the support for growth was further improved, which is a news I am happy to bring with me to more small businesses who are eager to hire. The issue of security is often raised by small businesses. It is about the insecurity in which most small businesses live and which strikes hard at, for example, sickness and parental leave. I think it is a completely unreasonable situation and therefore eagerly await the work of the government on the social security conditions of entrepreneurs. The inclusion of entrepreneurs is a necessary modernisation of Swedish social security. Mr President, I would like to Working with enterprise policy and constantly identifying areas of improvement in a changing world is indeed a privilege. As mentioned earlier, I am extremely grateful for all the visits that have been made possible across Swedish small businesses. I am also very proud to represent the Social Democrats, who consciously prioritise improvement work and reward long-term entrepreneurship. So I think we make Sweden an even better country to run companies in.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-263	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. There are many challenges in terms of entrepreneurship and people's ability to realise their ideas. Many have a lighter road, others a much harder one. When we talk about good business conditions, we often talk about corporate tax levels and 3:12 rules, that is, how to allow generation shifts to take place in companies. We are talking about employee options, which enable small companies to attract talent. We are also talking about expert taxes, which are about us being able to get the very best research talent and the best talents for our companies to come to Sweden. Access to venture capital is another factor. There are people who find it difficult to create their own future as entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs in Sweden. Foreign born children today play an important role in setting up small and medium-sized enterprises in Sweden. Every fifth new company is started today by a person born outside Sweden. Companies owned by people with foreign background employ around 300 000 people in Sweden today. It's almost all of Malmö. At the same time we see a large group of new arrivals who have come to Sweden in recent years and who need to establish themselves here. Creating more and easier ways into self-employment for foreign born and newcomers should be high on the agenda for each government in Sweden. Setting up and running businesses is a great personal commitment and is often demanding in the start-up phase. It is important to formulate a business plan and to find funding and the networks needed to get customers. IFS Business Advice, which is part of Almis's operations, has supported people with foreign background so that 20 000 companies have been set up. It has shown that it is successful in developing and developing people's driving forces. Mr President, I would like to Much more needs to be done, however. In recent years, Sweden has received in the order of a quarter of a million new arrivals. Many of them are met by an employment agency that says: Here we open up the opportunity for you to look for a job. We know that it takes up to seven years to get to work, but many of these people have been doing their own work in their home countries. They come to Sweden and sit on experience in running their own. They may not want to enter a job, but the paths we have to offer from the public are quite few and weak. We Moderates and the Alliance therefore want to review how newcomers can be given an introduction and guidance on how to start and run companies at an early stage. Here we want to add resources and give an extended assignment to IFS. We want to create cooperation with business organisations. We want the New Entrepreneur Centre to be an active part of the collective reception, in order to find more ways into work. Self-employment is an excellent way into work. Therefore, in order to better enable newcomers to enter entrepreneurship, the possibilities for financing and access to capital need to be improved and adapted to these conditions. We Moderates want to continue in the continuous work to reduce the regulatory burden for entrepreneurs in general and focus in particular on easing the regulatory environment so that newcomers can establish businesses faster and easier. Mr President, I would like to We want to develop a model where entrepreneurs act as mentors to develop new arrivals and their entrepreneurship. We also want to deepen our collaboration with Nyföretagarcentrum, IFS and various organisations. This is good for individuals, for Sweden and for entrepreneurship in Sweden. We also want the government to return to the Riksdag with a review of the laws, regulations and exceptions that need to be changed in order for new arrivals to be able to establish companies more quickly. With this, Mr President, I am in favour of reservations 7, 12 and 19.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-276	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin, Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist, Minister Åsa Regnér and Minister of Social Security Annika Strandhäll. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-278	Mr President, I would like to I turn to Peter Hultqvist. The government has today presented comprehensive directives for a parliamentary inquiry to look at questions about how the interests of the total defense can be taken into account in connection with, for example, real estate transactions near military installations. This also applies to airports and ports. This is good. This is something that we from the Moderates have asked for and which the Alliance has called for. It can also be said that it is done for the intended reason. Gotland came to its senses and decided not to rent out Slite harbour to interests linked to Nord Stream 2. Worse it went as familiar with Karlshamn. There S says yes to Nord Stream 2 being allowed to use the port of Karlshamn. Nord Stream 2 with its Russian interests had frequent contacts with S-led Karlshamn before Blekinge Municipality gave green light to the storage and loading of gas pipes. However, it is not possible to follow the case. I have requested those official notes which should reasonably have been made in the course of the handling of such a large and important matter. But there are no official notes. My question is: Does the Minister of Defence maintain that the best thing would be for Slite Port and Karlshamn Port not to be used by interests linked to the Nord Stream 2 project?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-282	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. You have to be careful about the choice of words. What I said at the press conference that we had the first time was that this affected the Swedish Armed Forces' activities and that it would lead to action in this context. That's what's been going through the way we handle this. In the case of Slite port, it was decided on Gotland not to allow Nord Stream to use that port. The arrangement would be such that Nord Stream would use the port directly. Here, however, Nord Stream is not the company that uses the port. Together with the police, the Swedish Security Service, the Swedish Armed Forces, the Swedish Customs Agency and others, we have concluded that it is possible to carry out a monitoring of this to the fullest. That is not to say that the legislation in force in Sweden today is to the fullest. To remedy this, we are setting up this investigation.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-286	Mr President, I would like to After all, we know the Minister for Defence as a much more confident speaker than he is now expressing. My simple questions are: Is this good or bad? Does the Minister of Defence maintain that it is not in Sweden's interest for Slite Port and Karlshamn Port to be used for Nord Stream 2, Russian interests and Russian pipes? Then one can say that it is curious and strange that no official notes have been made in Karlshamn harbour before such an important decision.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-288	Mr President, I would like to Wallmark! If you could listen to me! What I have said is not to do exactly this or exactly that in any port. What I have said is that it affects the operations of the Armed Forces. When you tell me to maintain any opinion, you give the impression that somehow I would have changed my mind in some sense. It's a very oblique formulation on your part. I have said what I have said: It affects the operations of the Swedish Armed Forces, and we solve it in two different ways. Then I've said the law isn't strong enough.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-290	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask my question to Gustav Fridolin. The school is in focus in many different ways. Not least, it concerns the digitalization of schools. Yesterday, we in the committee had the privilege of being invited to SKL and meeting both digitisation preparation and education preparation to discuss the school's digitalisation. The Minister for Education has highlighted these issues in a number of different contexts. But then it was a little surprising to hear from representatives of SKL that they had made a petition in December saying that they were ready and wanted to participate in the implementation of a modern digitalisation strategy but still yesterday had not received any response from either Gustav Fridolin or Minister Shekarabi. It was a joint presentation of the D igitisation preparation and the U tbildningsföreningen where they said: We want to speed up! We need to do it together, and we can't wait! I am curious about the Minister for Education's reaction to this.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-293	Mr President, I would like to I thank Ulrika Carlsson for the question. The digitalisation of schools is extremely important. The reason for this is simply that the children who go to school today will need digital skills. They will need it as a citizen. You have to understand society in order to change it. Then you have to understand all the ones and zeros that control everything from the news we read to the stuff we use. They will also, of course, need this competence in working life, where we need more people who work directly with digital issues and more who have basic digital skills. Therefore, we have been in constant contact with SKL and have been able to make a government decision to change the school's policy documents, i.e. curriculum, curricula and subject plans. That decision was made about two weeks ago and will start to be implemented in the next academic year. The next decision will apply to what support we will give to the municipalities in the job of implementing and implementing this. The municipalities have come at different stages and therefore need support with, among other things, continuing training for teachers.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-295	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Education for his answer. The municipalities will be involved later. It says that it was an old-fashioned IT strategy that was presented two weeks ago. It does not respond to the challenges that exist. It points to certain elements where students need to make improvements, but when it comes to the great need for digitization of the school, what the government presented does not meet the requirements of the future. For the Center Party, this is an important issue. I would like us to have the opportunity to discuss this in Parliament as well.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-296	Mr President, I would like to I would be happy to come to the Education Committee and describe the work we are now doing. It is a matter of several decisions to make the digitisation of Swedish schools a reality. It is the steering documents that govern the school and control the content of the teaching. That is why this is the decision that should come first, and it came two weeks ago. The next decision is about how we support the school's principals and teachers in the implementation of that decision. The government will decide on a digitalization strategy or IT strategy for the school as announced. It's good, and it's about time. It should have been a long time ago.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-298	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Åsa about economic freedom. Economic freedom is one of the most important gender issues. It has enabled women to feel free to move forward and not depend on, for example, a man. Now the government is making big tax increases on jobs. This will affect many women and make many women high earners. Many of our midwives become high earners. It is not conducive to equality. Does the Government think it is a feminist policy to punish education and further training for broad groups of women, such as nurses, by giving them increased taxes and less in their wallets?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-301	Mr President, I would like to I am not responsible for fiscal policy in the government. But I certainly have responsibility for equality policy and issues relating to welfare. It is very important that we have a common welfare that is well funded. The tax cuts that this country has undergone have contributed to the shortcomings in welfare that I have to deal with every day, for example in social care for children and young people. In terms of women's and men's economic equality, the most important issue is women's conditions in the labour market. This applies, for example, to salaries, working hours and the right to full-time work. It can be about not having shared tours when working for example in the care of the elderly. All this is primarily the responsibility of the parties. But the divides were not concluded during your eight years in power. My ambition is to work with the parties to do so.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-305	Mr President, I would like to We have ended up in a situation where broad income groups in Sweden are regarded as high income recipients. This is a dangerous development because the Swedish economy is growing with hours worked. If it is true that 37 percent of all midwives or specialist nurses are high earners, it is clear that they will not work anymore. Then they'd rather do something else at that time. It's an effect that's twice as bad. Economic freedom is extremely important. If you are free financially, you are also free to live your own life.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-308	Mr President, I would like to Economic freedom and equal conditions for women and men are extremely important. However, we have a systematic underestimation of women's work efforts in the labour market and also of women who have an academic education. The main issue is absolutely to correct the structural pay gap we have. That is why, for example, we have introduced a salary survey every year, which you removed. We have also taken other steps to tackle the pay gap in cooperation with the parties.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-311	Mr President, I would like to I, too, have a question for Minister Regnér. The question is about the unaccompanied children, whom we know to a large extent are ill and have poor mental health. These children are here alone without their parents. We have the same responsibility for them as we have for all children in society. You need to see their troubles and their condition early. Those who work around these children may not always have the necessary knowledge. They are often complex and complex and depend on many different things.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-314	Mr President, I would like to This is a big and important issue. The meeting I have with the Minister for Health after Question Time is precisely about unaccompanied minors and their unfortunately higher level of ill health than that of other children. We have a great responsibility for these children. That is why we have taken a great deal of action. For example, we have tightened up staffing and increased access to resources for staffing in social care for children and young people. Today, we have also taken a government decision on a knowledge centre for unaccompanied minors that will be able to support other activities with knowledge, gather knowledge, methods that work and examples of good collaboration in order to be able to disseminate it in order to support these children. We have also done a lot of other things to make them feel good here in Sweden.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-317	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Secretary of Defense. It concerns the budget. We know that more money has been requested in addition to the budget that the Swedish Armed Forces have for five years under the agreement. Billion-dollar reinforcements have been requested. Now the bidding has begun. My view, or our view, is that the half billion that has been contributed to strengthening defence is for this year. The other money will possibly be dealt with in the spring budget and in the autumn budget. There we will have the answers if, for the first time in a long time, the government intends to provide resources to achieve the objectives that you have set in the defence settlement. Is that a correct description?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-320	Mr President, I would like to Let's start with an error in what you're saying for the first time. We took a specialization decision in the Riksdag in June 2015, which included 10.2 billion by 2020, which is to be regarded as a trend break in the entire economic development of the Swedish Armed Forces. I'm not going to go through all the system investments that that means. Delivery is ongoing on this point with, among other things, increased practice activities. In 2017, 500 million people go to such things as increased numbers in the exercises that are planned, enhanced incident preparedness, preparedness controls, cyber security, impact operations, total defence, vehicles to the Air Force and to the Home Guard. Then we will continue negotiations on how to deal with it in the autumn budget and until 2020.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-322	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the answers. I take it that the direction of the government in this paragraph is that every effort will be made to ensure that the defence agreement that has been reached with defence objectives is given the means to achieve them. Is that correct?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-323	Mr President, I would like to It is stated in the agreement that was presented a few weeks ago that we intend to reinforce in the 2018 budget that we intend to increase the military capability and that we intend to fulfil the defence agreement. On the other hand, we have not vouched for the additional amount of EUR 6 1⁄2 billion that the Swedish Armed Forces have demanded. We will have to come back to this once we have carried out all the necessary analyses.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-324	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. My question concerns a study that has been carried out in my municipality of residence. We have about 8,000 children in preschool. They have studied what their outdoor environment looks like. We know that children's access to outdoor environments is extremely important from a health perspective. It was noted that there were huge differences between the qualities of the different preschools. Most of the preschool departments received far from high grades. I can imagine that this is a picture shared by several municipalities across the country and that it is the same problem when it comes to access to creative and stimulating outdoor environments even for primary school students.
i-14VjPYpZ5iG1tPpo972B3T	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jonas Eriksson, for the question! Having a stimulating and good outdoor environment is important especially for the youngest children in preschool and comprehensive school, but also for the older children when we are going to work to ensure that all children move every day, which we know is important for learning. It is also true that it looks very different in the schoolyards around the country. That depends on when the schools are built. The requirements that currently exist in the Planning and Construction Act for how to plan schoolyards were not present when all schools used today were built. It also depends on what opportunities you have to plan in municipalities, what area there is, what green areas there are and how you can plan there. It is for this reason that we have money in the state budget that municipalities can use both to renovate indoor environments and to renovate and build educational outdoor environments. To the extent that the entire school system does not fit in with an application, it is of course a contribution to the great renovation that needs to be done by school and preschool environments.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-331	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister of Social Security Annika Strandhäll. Today we leave working life when we are on average 64 years old. But some do so considerably earlier because they are no longer able to work. It has a negative impact on their pension because the system is structured so that the more years we work, the better the pension will be. My question to the Minister for Social Security is what the government is currently doing for more people to be able to work longer. The study report "Action for a longer working life" highlighted several things that needed to be done: better working environment, measures against age discrimination and education.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-334	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Westerholm, for a very urgent question! The government is doing a great deal to create a better situation in the labour market and in the working environment for women. It is women that we see as being over-represented in the group that is leaving the labour market prematurely. We know that today we have quite major shortcomings, not least in the working environment in the public sector and in the women's dominated areas. The government has presented a whole package of measures for healthier workplaces and lower sick leave. It includes measures to work more preventively and to have better support for workplace rehabilitation. For example, there is a regulation for organisational and social work environment, as it is often those parts that are particularly acute in the working environments that are most vulnerable.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-338	Mr President, I would like to The reason I highlighted the issue is that it is different sectors of society that have to work together here. It is about getting education and further training and being able to get study grants when you are in the middle of life and have family support and such things to think about. Otherwise, it may be difficult to get advice for education. It is therefore important that the various sectors work together, and not least that occupational health care is really getting started on this issue.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-339	Mr President, I would like to I can't help but agree. This is an urgent matter. The declarations of intent signed by the social partners to provide opportunities for a longer working life raise in particular the issue of health and safety at work, as I mentioned earlier. We are doing a solid job there today. It is also about the importance of policy taking care of the opportunity to change during working life. We know today that you change your profession and career and that you are worn out for various reasons at work.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-341	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll. We in the Christian Democrats want to be able to transfer parental benefit days to relatives. If the parents do not have the opportunity, the grandmother, grandfather, sibling or other close relatives should have the opportunity to enter. One example is single people, where this need can arise. Today there is a very limited possibility, and we in the Christian Democrats want to expand it.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-344	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Roland Utbolt! There are many things that are anxious to do within the framework of our parental insurance. It needs to be modernised. This is why the government has set up an investigation that is currently working on a proposal for a new and modern parental insurance policy. I am pleased by the fact that an important issue in the investigation is, among other things, the possibility for star families, for example, to be involved in and take part in parental insurance. Every fifth child today grows up in a different family constellation than a traditional core family. Then we also need parental insurance that can respond to this need. I look forward to coming back with suggestions this autumn as to what this might look like.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-347	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have to say that it sounds positive that the star families – even single ones at that time, I think it will – will be able to have this opportunity. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Minister whether you can go even further, that is, outside the household, and allow someone close to you – whoever it may be – to have this opportunity?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-349	Mr President, I would like to I will not precede the possible proposal of the investigation. But, as I said, the idea is to be able to take heights so that more people than before today are present and involved in a child's life. There also needs to be conditions in parental insurance for this. A fundamental problem is that we still share so unequally with parental insurance and that it is in fact mothers who take 75% of the days.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-352	Mr President, I would like to As many of us here know, for a few decades now we have a training system that is rigged for large companies that want to enter just to profit from our tax money. Although we have great teachers and non-profit school actors such as cooperatives and foundation-owned schools that do a really good job, this becomes a difficult system to work in. This is especially true when we see that more than ever, children are literally placed on the stock exchange when different types of companies and venture capital companies are registered and listed. As if that were not enough, today we have a system in which municipalities that go backwards, that is to say, make negative results in their school budget, have to pay extra money to the free schools. But the opposite is not true. If the municipality today makes a plus result, i.e. does not spend all its money, the free schools are not obliged to give any money.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-356	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Daniel Riazat, for the question! The simple answer is that the school cost inquiry is currently being consulted, among other things to a large number of municipalities and SKL. I assume that this particular type of problem will enter the consultation round. Then we will be able to see what can change in the allocation of resources to schools in order to have a resource allocation that is fair and so widely respected that it is not as often as today decided in court rulings. This creates great uncertainty for students, teachers and all active in the school world. On the principled level, I don't think Daniel and I have exactly the same argument. But we share the conclusion and the view that those who run schools in Sweden should be able to promise welfare, us, that the tax money that goes into the business will also arrive at the students and not be distributed in profit.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-358	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Gustav Fridolin, for your answer! If I remember correctly, we had a similar discussion about a year ago. Then it didn't really sound like you wanted to wait for an investigation, Gustav Fridolin. Then it sounded like you thought it was an okay system that the municipalities pay extra money to free schools because they have made negative results. I respect that you want to wait for the investigation, but I can say that the Left Party will not wait. That's why we're also going to exercise around the country to just make sure we try it. We do not think it is a fair system as it stands today.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-360	Mr President, I would like to When we met in the interpellation debate, I described the regulatory framework that exists today, which gives quite a lot of space to the municipalities to ensure that schools are regarded as individual units and have a unitary report. It is also the recommendation that SKL makes to avoid the kind of problems that you highlight in your interpellation and even now. It is excellent if the Left Party and other parties push on in the municipalities to follow the type of accounting that SKL recommends. This would avoid some of the problems.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-362	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to the Minister for Defence. I am thinking of our military cooperation with our friends to the east, Finland, and what it looks like today. What's the status quo? Even I, as a defence policy, find it difficult to keep up with all the tours. We have been told today that there is an investigation into judicial cooperation, which we welcome. So then we stand and work together beyond peacetime conditions. It is therefore interesting to get some more meat on your legs. What will the investigation mean for us, and what will we find out when we look at this? I suppose this also gives greater powers, and I would like to see what it could be and who will then decide on increased powers. I hope to have an answer to that.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-365	Mr President, I would like to The issue is wide-ranging, and time is limited. When it comes to the investigation, it is about analysing how to make the decisions required in connection with giving and receiving help in an urgent manner with the Riksdag. It is also a question of looking at whether, in peace-time conditions, the government can, in the event of individual incidents, be authorized to take such decisions by violations or monitoring missions. It is also about how, within the framework of increased decision-making powers for the Government, the role of the Riksdag can be ensured in this context. It is this type of balance point that is at issue. This is the result of our in-depth cooperation with Finland, which extends in planning beyond peace-time conditions.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-368	Mr President, I would like to Then I hope that the Minister for Defence can also develop a little more in a short time that there may be differences between giving and receiving help. Could it be on different decision-makers? I'd like to know.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-369	Mr President, I would like to This is ultimately about considering which powers are necessary for Finnish military forces that are in Sweden according to a Swedish request for support to be able to provide appropriate support, and vice versa. It is about who decides on armed force abroad to assist Finland, how to receive military support from Finland and about the balance between government and parliament. This is the kind of question that is now to be investigated and to which we will thus receive answers.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-370	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Minister Åsa my question. The night-time staffing of special accommodations has been criticised for several years. Last year, the government made a change to the Social Services Regulation, and the demand was tightened up that older people should be entitled to help without delay, even in the middle of the night. According to IVO, there has been little difference after the government decision, but the shortcomings are the same in some retirement homes when you have low staffing. Over the past year, IVO has dealt with some forty reports of lack of night-time staffing. The notifications concern both municipalities and private health care companies, and IVO has called for improvements to some thirty healthcare providers. Many experts also warn that the new regulation is toothless, as it is still up to every resident to decide on staffing. In an interview in Ekot, the Government says that she is angry and will put her foot down and get to grips with the issue. How is the Government supposed to address this issue?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-374	Mr President, I would like to The government has strengthened care for the elderly, which is a very important issue, by 2 billion a year for staffing. We have also solved the issue of night staffing in retirement homes and special housing, which has not been resolved in the past. I'm glad. The follow-up was done quite early, but I really took it seriously and also said that it is not freely chosen work to comply with the regulation. It is very important to get to older people who need help, even at night, and to be staffed for this. I did what I said I would do: I immediately spoke to the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils about the issue in order to ensure compliance with the provisions of the regulation. We will follow this up again.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-377	Mr President, I would like to The Government's proposal means that staff do not have to be present in the accommodation but only available in some form. We Swedish democrats believe that the elderly should have staffing 24 hours a day. If the government is serious about making the elderly feel safe in retirement homes, why do you not want to invest in a safe night staffing?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-378	Mr President, I would like to We do. That is why we also got this regulation, which we had not managed to do before. There should be staff who can quickly assist the elderly when they need it, even at night. We have committed funds of SEK 2 billion per year – the single largest investment in staff for elderly care. I will follow this very closely.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-380	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to the Minister for Defence, who was just about the fact that the government today adopted a directive for an investigation to propose a mechanism whereby Sweden can urgently call for help. The Minister of Defence has chosen to exemplify with Finland. My question to the Minister for Defence is that I assume that these directives, as Mr ÖB would have said, are generic and will therefore render in proposals which also mean that Sweden, for example, can get help from NATO, an organisation with which we have a host country agreement.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-382	Mr President, I would like to The truth is that Widman is asking this question even though he already knows the answer. The regulatory framework and legislation become general, but this is therefore caused by and focused on cooperation with Finland. It is from this all that arises, and Finland is our closest partner, as Mr Widman also knows. As far as NATO and the host country agreement are concerned, it already exists. It's decided and clear. We will practice host country support during the Aurora exercise, which will be held in September. It is no wonder that Sweden is practicing together with countries that are NATO members. We have been doing this for a long time, and we will continue to do so. This strategy includes building a security network around Sweden.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-385	Mr President, I would like to I know the answer to the question, but I think it is important that it is also presented to the Swedish people. It is absolutely right that we have a host country agreement with NATO, but that, of course, also needs to be mechanised by the fact that, in various ways, we politically decide to request assistance from NATO in particular. I feel, Mr President, that the Minister for Defence is not quite clear. My question was very straight and digital: yes or no. Will the proposals that we can now expect also be used when we ask NATO to help us?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-387	Mr President, I would like to Now I have given an answer to this question, which Allan Widman has also understood: legislation and regulatory changes – what they will now look like and without me pre-empting the final outcome of the investigation – will probably be general. That's how this goes. I already said this in my first speech, which I would like to remind Allan Widman of. Allan Widman knows exactly what this is about. It is based on the former Defence Committee and the orientation decision and is a logical consequence of that.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-389	Mr President, I would like to I have two questions for our Minister for Social Security. Employers have an obligation to work for a good and preventive work environment, but in spite of this, rehabilitation needs arise from time to time. The Minister has now presented a proposal for enhanced rehabilitation. What is the purpose of this proposal in the form of concrete measures?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-391	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kerstin, for an incredibly important question! We now see how sickness rates since 2010 have increased very much. In fact, in the last year, we have managed, through the government, to ensure that this increase has slowed down. But we see that there is still a lack of intervention in an early illness and that people can go on sick leave for a long time before they get a rehabilitation plan. The Government's proposal, which has been requested, is a way of clarifying the employer's responsibility in relation to the Work Environment Act in order for a rehabilitation plan to be drawn up urgently at the beginning of a illness. In this case, we say that within 30 days there should be a planning for the individual.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-393	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. How, then, will employers be supported to cope with these tasks?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-394	Mr President, I would like to It is incredibly important, and that is why we will also increase support for employers. The workplace support will make it possible to get 10 000 SEK per employee and year for expert efforts to support so that rehabilitation plans are in place and efforts are made. Every single small employer should not have to be a rehabilitation expert.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-396	Mr President, I would like to I have a question addressed to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. One of the biggest challenges we have in school is the lack of teachers. We Christian Democrats have many proposals to overcome these developments, such as allowing remote learning on more subjects and allowing more academics to take part in complementary educational education. Instead of making proposals in this area, however, the government has increased its flight from the teaching profession by irresponsibly implementing the so-called Teacher Salary Lift. In yesterday's Svenska Mattias we could read: A major problem is, therefore, compounded by this reform. My question to the Minister for Education is: Does the government feel any responsibility for how the teacher's salary lift further strain the teacher shortage?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-399	Mr President, I would like to Annika Eclund's real description is not correct. Yesterday, statistics showed that 16,500 new teachers have been employed in Swedish schools. The total number of qualified teachers is increasing; this shows the Swedish National Agency for Education's statistics. On the other hand, the proportion and number are falling – as you know two different things – because you hire so many others because of the lack of teachers we have, but also because you want to relieve the existing teachers so that teachers can be teachers. However, the statistics that came yesterday clearly show that there will be more teachers in Swedish schools, both more qualified and more overall. It will be because the government invests in school. We invest in more employees, and we invest in higher teachers' salaries. I am not going to apologize for the government's providing EUR 3 billion for 65 000 teachers to receive higher salaries. It was necessary. It must not be that the only way for teachers to get higher wages is to change employers.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-402	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Education. Of course, neither teachers nor we politicians are opposed to teachers having higher salaries. On the contrary – that is very necessary. The problem is that the government has implemented this very important reform irresponsibly. It has resulted in discord in schools; teachers get sick leave. In yesterday's Svenska Dagbladet, the government also lectured the municipalities on teachers' salaries. Wouldn't it be better if the government had steered this up in the first place?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-406	Mr President, I would like to The teacher's salary boost is a system that, unlike career services, was first negotiated between the social partners. The criteria that apply to the Teacher's Salary Lift are developed by employers and trade unions. I can't defend exactly how it's been implemented at every school. There are decisions that, if I were to get into them, I would find it hard to understand. This is always the case with this type of employer's decision. This really brings to light the problems that exist in wage formation in Swedish schools.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-409	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Åsa. Men's violence against women and violence in close relationships are serious societal problems. Therefore, the Government's proposal to introduce a mandatory element on this subject in certain training programmes is long awaited. Knowledge is an important prerequisite for people facing violence in their professional role to be able to work with the issue. However, in order for the Government's proposal to be effective, other conditions are also required. It is about clear procedures, concrete working methods and control in the workplace so that the work can be done routinely. It is lacking in many workplaces today.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-413	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the important question. I am very pleased that we are now re-establishing – it is because – degree schemes where knowledge of men's violence against women becomes a competence in certain educations. It's about lawyers, doctors, sociologists and others. This is an important step. And it is in demand, both by the professions that come into contact with victims of violence and by organisations representing women's shelters. We do a lot of things. Social services, police and the judiciary already have a mandate and a requirement to have a high level of knowledge in this regard. There are also funds for the development of skills in certain activities. But we have also noticed that knowledge must be brought with it from the beginning. In the strategy, of 900 million, against men's violence against women that we have put forward, we also stress a great deal on more knowledge of how to prevent violence. That is something that has been taken so far.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-417	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer and for your great commitment, Minister! As the Minister says, in some cases there may be guidelines for this in certain workplaces. But even then, it is not certain that the question of exposure to violence is routinely posed. It needs to be included in the regular tasks. It is overlooked many times.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-419	Mr President, I would like to It's a priority to work on these issues. However, all issues relating to equality and perhaps also to the everyday lives of women and children often, I would say, have a lower status than other issues. That's why we need to continue these missions. We are setting up a gender equality authority to steer gender equality policy more professionally. Unfortunately, during the last parliamentary term, the level of violence was not reduced. We have to. We must constantly remind ourselves of this and work on it.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-424	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. It is also about the Teacher Salary Lift. We all get in touch with the school in different ways – via the e-mail box, through calls out in schools and by letters and can then get to know the following opinions: To be forced to set a sharp line through this group – one refers to the teachers – without clear criteria than those we received is very fatal. Why could it not have given us the freedom to use the total more flexibly? Then the money could have been allocated on the basis of performance. What does the government really think of the school leader's mission? All the work we do to clarify assignments and differentiate salaries is put out of play with this teacher's salary lift. The result is a number of functioning teachers who get seated completely without this lift. How do we motivate them to keep fighting? And how do we motivate them to stay in the profession?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-427	Mr President, I would like to We must first look at what is happening in Swedish school. The number who wants to be a teacher has increased. Since 2011, the number of applicants for teacher education has increased by 70 per cent. And three out of four teachers are prepared to recommend the profession to others. It's amazing! Six out of ten qualified and qualified teachers who are doing other things today are also thinking of coming back. This also happens in Swedish school. And one of the reasons for that is that we give priority to teachers; we give priority to teachers' salaries. The criteria that many people criticise – I am also told – are developed by employers and unions, just as it should be in the Swedish labour market. Where the money is not sufficient for everyone who meets the criteria, it is reasonable that the municipalities should also do their part in evaluating the teaching profession. Many municipalities, such as Botkyrka and Uppsala, also do so. Yes, the teacher collective deserves higher wages. This is part of that work.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-430	Mr President, I would like to I take it Gustav Fridolin is satisfied. Wouldn't it be much better if the government had set criteria for using the pot with money in a flexible way and distributing it in schools, without placing the responsibility on the municipalities to add money in such a discussion? It is amazing that more people are applying for teacher training. But now that an A- and a B-team is created in the world of school, you might think twice before you do it.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-433	Mr President, I would like to There are no A- or B-teams among Swedish teachers. However, it goes without saying that when I stepped out as a newly graduated teacher I could not as much as those who had worked for 20 years; I still can't. An experienced teacher will earn more than a newly graduated teacher. It is not reasonable for newly graduated teachers, due to the lack of teachers, to have the same or higher salary as the experienced teacher who supervises them. We must have systems that ensure continuity and experience pays off, including in the pay envelope. That is the basis for the Teacher's Salary Lift.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-435	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll. The other day, the Mina pages of Försäkringskassan were closed down, when the e-service began to disseminate personal data to the wrong people. It was also possible to carry out errands for others, such as the children of others. Was this because of the human factor, as the authority said to the media? Or is there a connection to what the Swedish National Audit Office found during an audit of the agency's work on information security, namely that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency does not comply with MSB's regulations? The internal audit also found weaknesses in information security, both in 2015 and 2016. The most serious incidents meant that Försäkringskassan exposed information about customers with protected and sensitive personal data to a large number of other customers. This is therefore not a new phenomenon. How does the Minister view this and past events and the need for measures to improve the work on information security at Försäkringskassan?
i-L1B5GgWyuV2ksUKviM1vCd	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the important question, Anna Vikström! It is incredibly worrying that such things happen, that data in Försäkringskassan's self-service system that should not be displayed there is displayed. Of course, I got into this immediately. The Social Insurance Agency has informed me that the error was due to an incorrect configuration of the IT systems, which can be attributed to the human factor. According to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's internal investigation, which has looked at the incident, the wrong information about fewer than ten persons was shown. That is, of course, totally unacceptable. But it is positive that the authority acted quickly, within 30 minutes, and that self-service services were shut down. It is also positive that these procedures functioned as intended. However, this is not the same as the shortcomings pointed out by the National Audit Office. That work continues.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-445	Mr President, I would like to A report commissioned by Finansinspektionen on financial activities linked to persons in Sweden shows that money from Försäkringskassan intended for, among other things, assistance compensation is used to fund terrorist war trips. What is described in the report is worrying that parts of taxpayers' resources intended to help disabled people are being used for terrorist war trips. The report also shows that there may be a dark figure and that these journeys may still occur. Assistance allowance shall be used to support disabled persons. Everything else is unacceptable – the Government and I have discussed it before.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-449	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I have conducted this debate quite alone here on proposals on how to tackle fraud and misuse of funds. The vast majority of private actors in assistance payments do a very good job, but many data show that far too large funds are being misused. This report and Svenska Dagbladet's review of misusing funds is truly alarming. I've been trying to bring that up here for quite a long time, but I've been pretty lonely about it. There have been no proposals either from you or others in the opposition about how to do it. I've set up an investigation. I have introduced several tasks in regulatory letters to various authorities to get to grips with this. I intend to appoint a person to look specifically at the role of the companies. There's an investigation into cheating in welfare. I have been familiar with all these issues and will come back with a series of proposals. However, the Social Insurance Agency's work focuses primarily on ensuring that the funds go to those who are entitled to assistance and not to anyone else.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-454	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister of Education. Nine out of ten schools carelessly with the work environment, the Swedish Work Environment Authority wrote on Monday. It points to unsustainable workloads, noisy sound environments and poor ventilation. We cannot be satisfied with that.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-457	Six years ago, the Riksdag adopted an announcement inviting the Government to come back with proposals on how to improve the working environment for children in preschools and at leisure homes. This announcement is still being prepared by the government. I'm not happy it's taking so long.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-459	Mr President, I would like to First of all, the Working Environment Act applies to all activities where people work, including preschools and recreation centres. In preschool, the most important part of ensuring children's work environment has been the work to reduce the size of children's groups. There we have made sure to get back the benchmarks that disappeared during the bourgeois government. We have given the municipalities support to reduce the size of children's groups. Then it's about doing the job. Care must be taken to renovate the many old school premises that exist and that were often built during the days of the million-dollar programme. Care must be taken to improve ventilation. More must be employed so that there are adults who can help when a student has special difficulties that make it messy for others in the class. That is precisely why we give priority to investments, among other things, in order to employ more people. As I said, yesterday the figure of 16 500 new positions was presented in the last year. Boverket is now examining several hundred applications for state funds for the renovation of school premises.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-462	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Åsa Regnér. Last autumn, Försäkringskassan changed payment systems from advance payments to monthly payments for those entitled to personal assistance. At the moment, this is a very worrying situation for many private and cooperative assistance providers. It is a question of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency not being able to pay the compensation on time. As a result, there has been a lack of wage payments. Some have been forced to take out expensive loans and risk going bankrupt. In the end, it is the individual patient who becomes affected when assistance is not provided.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-465	Mr President, I would like to I have tried hard to make an effort with regard to the debate on personal assistance. The 30 billion a year, which this reform costs, should go to those people who are entitled to assistance and who have the needs to be met jointly with this money. We have made a number of changes to ensure that the funds do not go beyond what they are intended for. What you, Bengt Eliasson, bring up is part of this work. Now it's a transition time. I have close contact with Försäkringskassan who is trying to do this as well as possible. This change was also known. As I see it, a lot of the companies in this market have great profitability and have the ability to reset. But we are conducting a dialogue to do this as well as possible, but the procedures need to be improved so that the funds go to what was intended.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-469	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. With the defence decision in 2015, we in Sweden also decided to resume work on total defence planning. That work went before that on a sparring flame for quite a few years. The Government has subsequently instructed the responsible authorities to look at this issue, start planning work and report on the conditions for this. In the light of the deteriorating world situation, it is urgent that we continue to strengthen our entire defense. The government has also recently announced that the spring change budget allocates 75 million to intensify work within the framework of the overall defence planning. In the light of where we stand today, how does the Minister of Defence view the continued work on total defence planning?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-474	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. What is being carried out is education efforts at the Swedish Defence University focused on staff working in municipalities, county councils and county boards. They participate in practice activities together with the Swedish Armed Forces. I myself have visited such an exercise called Geltic Bear at the management regiment. Within the framework of Aurora this autumn, as I mentioned earlier, there is a total defence dimension in which some forty authorities on the civilian side are involved. I visited Norrbotten recently where they have responsibility for collecting northern Sweden, and they work actively with total defence planning. It has been going on and there is work going on. Now we set aside SEK 75 million as an economic first step in this context.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-479	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Fridolin. Despite a great political focus, Sweden has for decades lost in school results. One of the major and contributing reasons for this is that Sweden has less teaching time in important school subjects compared to other countries. The Alliance expanded teaching in mathematics, among other things. The Parliament has also repeatedly decided to extend the teaching period in mathematics and sport, among other things. In previous debates in this House, the Government has referred to the fact that when the stadium classification of comprehensive school comes into place, this will be addressed. In this way, the Parliament's decision will be complied with. The other day, the government presented its proposal on new stadium division, but there is no mention of either mathematics or sport.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-485	Mr President, I would like to No, Parliament's announcements should be handled in accordance with the regulations that exist for announcements. We have also increased the number of math hours, preferably in middle school. In accordance with the planning that originally existed and that there was a broad political majority behind it, our idea is to expand with another 100 hours taken from the student's election when we reach 2019, i.e. when the students who have now been given increased time start in high school. We are also prepared to engage constructively with the bourgeois parties as we have done.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-488	Mr President, I would like to My question also goes to Minister Fridolin. Jacob Clarin is sitting in the gallery. He has during the week done his internship at Annicka Engblom. He is interested in school policy and has read the study Access for beginners – a more open and simpler system for access to higher education, which proposes some changes. This applies not least to the university test, with, among other things, a proposal for an age limit of 19 years and also restrictions on how many times you have the opportunity to take the university test. The investigation suggests that students will be unmotivated if you have the opportunity to write the university exam earlier. The limitations on the university exam proposed by the study limit students' chances of entering higher education. Does the Minister of Education think this is the right way to go?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-491	Mr President, I would like to Access to higher education should not be restricted. There will be more opportunities for higher education. Then it's about seeing how to create these opportunities. Unfortunately, during the previous government, a number of opportunities were removed, such as the possibility of using the work experience and everything you have gained by working when you applied for higher education. I think that's a shame. The university test as it is used today does not seem to fully, according to the investigation, help to get a wider recruitment, and that is why some changes are being proposed. However, the university test must remain in place and be able to be used to apply. Now the investigation is being sent for a referral, so unfortunately I do not think that Jacob today can get that clear answer to the question whether or not the investigation's proposals will be carried out. The order is that we have to look at what the consultation bodies say, but the government's entry is that there should continue to be as today and preferably more different ways into higher education. For me, the university test was absolutely crucial to getting into higher education.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-497	Mr President, I would like to Not only am I gifted with Jacob this week, but I also have Selma and Sophie from grade 8 at Musikuglan in Karlskrona. They have concerns about quotas, so my question goes to Minister for Gender Equality Åsa Regnér. The government was previously prepared to present a legislative proposal on quotas to increase the number of women on private company boards. There was no majority for this in Parliament, and the government withdrew the proposal. Selma and Sophie have some thoughts about why this, when they themselves come to work in a few years' time, would be an effective instrument. They do not agree with that. They themselves do not want to be assessed from outside or quotad on the basis that they are girls, but for what characteristics they have and for what training and skills they can offer in the labour market. The Minister is happy to share why she is of a completely different opinion and wants to quota them against their own will.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-501	Mr President, I would like to I assume that in these talks you have also talked about the fact that the order we have today means that men are quotad because they are men. I suppose you have also discussed that it would be a good thing. Because that's what's going on. There is an informal quota for men because they are men, and I think that is bad. I do not think quotaing is always a good instrument. We have no experience of regulated quotas, but this is going too slowly. Women have a high level of education and very good experience of management and leadership, but still they do not get into the boardrooms. I think it is wrong, and action must be taken. The Moderates have a history of always being against any proposal that leads to equality when presented. They let others take the debate, and ten years later they say they are in favour. We have to do something here. It is a matter of making decisions and taking the debate.
i-VjiQV5zsYhBzXwUdPZ1cn9	Mr President, I would like to Minister for Gender Equality Åsa Regnér represented Sweden on the 61st edition of the UN Women's Commission in New York from 13 to 24 March. This year's theme was Women's economic empowerment in the changing world of work. My question is: What did the Minister point out, and what were Sweden's priorities at this meeting?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-507	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for an extremely urgent question! After all, we live at a time when women's rights are being very attacked from different directions and where gender equality and even women's rights to their own income and work are being questioned. Of course, I highlighted the Swedish experience when it comes to women as well as men working, which is the basis for the social model we have. I highlighted special taxation, the right to abortion, care for children and the elderly, and social security that is based on the individual and not on the family – all of that. I also raised the issue of sexual and reproductive health and rights. Those issues are by far the most attacked right now, and it is important to stand up for them. In Sweden we have a party in this House which is not in favour of Swedish abortion legislation and which questions women's right to their own body. We must oppose these proposals here, and we must show solidarity with women in the world on a global scale. That's why I lifted this.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-511	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister of Education about taxes. Today's echo devoted its entire lunch broadcast to a few future billions in the state budget – SEK 200 per month in lower taxes for some pensioners. Congratulations on your success! At the same time, there are forecasts that the municipal tax may need to be increased by SEK 1 - 2, which would increase the tax significantly more for all pensioners than the reduction now proposed for some. Tax cuts are good. However, Sweden now has by far the highest marginal taxes in Europe, which undermines our competitiveness and the ability to pay higher pensions in the long term. Does the government also intend to reduce Sweden's very high marginal taxes as soon as possible after the increases announced?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-515	Mr President, I would like to It is a very good decision that the government can present today – that we take another step to close the gap between taxes on wages and taxes on deferred wages, i.e. pensions, which was created under the bourgeois government. It is totally indecent that you pay more in taxes when you get a little less money as a pensioner. Of course, that treasure should be the same. We are now taking an important step for what affects many pensioners, and I am proud of that. Looking ahead, we see that there is a clear need to invest in welfare – school, health care, care – and that is precisely why our government is making sure to transfer state funds to welfare so that it can be able to do so without having to increase municipal tax in the way Staffan Danielsson describes. In this we have the support of the Center Party. That's good. The Center Party sees the need for reinforcements to the municipal sector. Unfortunately, you do not have the other bourgeois parties in it.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-518	Mr President, I would like to The insecurity in our country is increasing. Every third woman feels insecure in her own residential area, and organized crime is spreading in our remote areas. Unfortunately, this insecurity increasingly includes our schools. The report from the Swedish Work Environment Agency that my colleague Thomas Strand mentioned a moment ago shows a number of different parts, including that the proportion of primary school teachers exposed to threats and violence is higher than the average for all professions. This is a major problem that we are being reminded of more and more often, and we see that money is not the full answer to the problem. We need to do other things to strengthen the powers of teachers and principals and other things.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-522	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, for raising the question! It is very good that the Swedish Work Environment Authority has done this report, but what it shows is in many ways terrible. You shouldn't have to be afraid to go to your job, either as a teacher or as a student. It is therefore important that we now hire more people in Swedish schools. It is clear that in order to create security and to be able to use, for example, the school law's possibilities for disciplinary action that means that you can send a student out of the classroom, then you need to know that there are other adults at the school who can work with that student. You need a student's health to work with. You need to make sure that it is not pushed in too many students in the class so that you have time for the students who are there. All this comes back to having to be enough people working in school. That is why I am proud that more people are being hired in Swedish schools. It is important to cope with security work. Of course, that's not all. It is also about the need for clear management that prioritises security issues for both teachers and students, with a strong responsibility for principals and principals. It is also a question of the need for clear cooperation with the police where appropriate.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-527	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Gustav Fridolin. A mother has sent me a question. She writes like this: My son is now acutely ill in his bipolar disorder, and it is really a huge problem not to have access to an overall expert clinic because he is multi-disabled with several severe NPF diagnoses. The bipolar clinic only cares about the bipolar disorder, and it does not work when his difficulties overlap. The mother has now contacted a private clinic for help, and it costs her $1,500. It is unacceptable that they should have to go to private clinics to get care and help. She feels desperate and powerless in the face of psychiatry and health care. My question to the Government is therefore: what can we do to help our citizens so that they feel safe in our country?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-530	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for highlighting this issue, Heydari Heydari! I encounter this quite often from parents to children who feel bad in different ways or have neuropsychiatric diagnoses. We have built a society where you should have the most different government contacts when you are at the most fragile, which of course does not work for very many people. Society must coordinate in order to provide the right support for parents and children in this situation. It should not be the case that children's and young people's psychiatrists say one thing, the school says another thing, and social services – if necessary – say a third thing. This is why last week the government decided on a mission to the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish National Agency for Education to test together with SKL how to build student health and care, especially children's and young people's psychiatry. It will be an important step, and we are prepared to make the necessary legislative changes to make this work in full.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-532	That concludes today's Question Time. I would like to thank the members and ministers involved.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-533	Mr President, I would like to We will now discuss the Swedish National Audit Office's report on state support for innovation and entrepreneurship. There are many things that play a role in Swedish companies' ability to grow. Innovation is the foundation. It is about the innovation power of creative, talented people of – I have said many times – flesh and blood. I wonder precisely which people are not made up of meat and blood, by the way, but it is people of flesh and blood who create entrepreneurship, not state support for innovation and entrepreneurship. They can possibly help to make it easier for creative people to come forward. Good nutritional conditions are also needed for this to begin to bloom, and then it does not work to raise taxes in time and out of time and not really know in what order to do so. We can make it more difficult for 3:12 rules, i.e. to sell companies and ensure that they cannot go forward for generations, while at the same time signaling a reduction in corporate tax. Such things must be connected somewhere. Mr President, I would like to The bulk of the risk-taking and investment is currently made by private operators. Therefore, more needs to be done to strengthen and encourage private risk-taking to invest even without state interference. In order to promote development, entrepreneurship and innovation, the State should remove barriers and act where market failures prevail. The knowledge of new and existing companies about existing state aid for innovation and entrepreneurship is a prerequisite for more aid. Here we share the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism that more needs to be done to include and broaden the work within the various areas of activity. A recurring criticism from both the Swedish National Audit Office and the Swedish Entrepreneurship Investigation is about the inadequate basis for many of the state's bodies in the area of innovation and entrepreneurship. The moderates' starting point is that some state aid may be justified, but at the same time it must be given with great regard for taxpayers' money. We therefore believe that a review of the innovation system is necessary. Large amounts of public money are spent every year at all levels. Mr President, I would like to We therefore believe that the conditions should be created for a better overview of aid to industry and its effects. We agree with what the Swedish National Audit Office's report says that it should be ensured that all supporting authorities set targets for their programmes. The objectives shall be clearly defined, defined and follow-up. Supporting authorities shall also plan evaluations and programmes already in the context of the implementation of the plans for the programmes. Furthermore, we believe that a continuous independent impact assessment of state aid for innovation and entrepreneurship should be the norm for the supporting authorities. With this, I would ask you to allow the reservation to be approved.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-542	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Alliance-wide reservation contained in the report. It is companies in Sweden that create the conditions for us to have a good welfare in our country. Therefore, companies need to be given good conditions, and entrepreneurs need to be able to get a good dividend on the money they spend and the work they do. We know that small and medium-sized enterprises are responsible for four out of five jobs created in Sweden, and therefore there is of course an interest on the part of the state to support innovative companies that want to research and develop and create various growth projects. The report we are now debating is called Riksrevisionen's report on state aid for innovation and entrepreneurship. The report contains some interesting reading, but it also raises a lot of questions. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed three government agencies that provide business support, namely Vinnova, the Swedish Energy Agency and the Swedish Growth Agency. These three authorities are the ones paying out the most support to SMEs. In its audit, the Swedish National Audit Office has asked four audit questions: What does the report say? Yes, when it comes to clear targets in the agencies' programmes, the Swedish National Audit Office points out that the authorities have varying quality and shortcomings in their target formulations. There are too many objectives at different levels, and all goals are readable. This, of course, makes it difficult to measure the achievement of the target. Mr President, I would like to What does the Swedish National Audit Office say about the authorities' processes to assess which projects are to receive support or not? Here, too, we are very critical. The three authorities that have been examined have all different processes to decide who is to receive support and who is not to receive support. The fact that authorities providing support to innovative companies do not have similar processes for their assessment risks, of course, undermining trust in the authorities as different conclusions can be reached depending on the process of an authority. When you have examined whether the support has had any measurable effect, the Swedish National Audit Office will with the startling analysis that the support, which aims to create growth, has not been verified in the impact evaluations. This is information that the government and the authorities must take very seriously. Should we pay out support for innovation and entrepreneurship, we need to be able to show that aid has an impact, because why else should we pay them out? The last question The Swedish National Audit Office looked at where the government has an overview of the support. The Swedish National Audit Office writes that the government lacks an overview, that there is a lack of a comprehensive and comprehensive picture of the functioning of the support systems and that data used to monitor and evaluate the support is flawed in both scope and quality. Those are pretty tough words. In its report, the Swedish National Audit Office proposes to both the government and the authorities how to act to correct the criticisms that have been made. The Government believes that it partly agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office's problem description and that the overall overview of the state's support for innovation and entrepreneurship, as well as their effects, needs to be improved. If the government and the authorities now intend to address the problems raised by the Swedish National Audit Office, they must be able to hold several balls in the air at the same time. The changes that need to be made must not create even more rules and make the already complicated application process even more bureaucratic. Mr President, I would like to In our alliance motion on this report, we believe that, as Mr Rothenberg mentioned, a fundamental prerequisite for the utility of state aid is that companies know that they exist. The Swedish National Audit also shares our view that more needs to be done to include and broaden this work. It is about making the subsidies known. In our motion, we in the Alliance want to create a better overview of the support that the business community can take part in. We also want clearer objectives for both planning and evaluation in order to be able to follow up the support and be able to prioritise among the support in order to get the best effect. We believe that, even when planning a programme, the authorities should also plan for an evaluation of the programme. Finally, we write that an independent impact assessment of state aid for innovation and entrepreneurship should be the norm for supporting authorities. I very much hope that the government and the supporting authorities will take on board the criticism and create follow-up objectives, that the authorities will obtain similar application processes, that we will have an opportunity to see if the aid really has a measurable effect and that the government will get the overview of the support needed to manage state aid effectively and with maximum benefit. With those words, I would like to thank you, Mr President.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-557	Mr President, I would like to At the risk of some repetition, however, I will explain the position of the Liberals and this reservation. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office has examined state aid for innovation and entrepreneurship and found what we have long pointed out: that it is fundamentally unclear whether state aid to companies contributes to increased growth and is socially profitable. We welcome the report. We Liberals think it should be simple, rewarding and profitable to run a business. For us, entrepreneurship is both an expression of the individual's ability to realize his or her dreams and a prerequisite for our common community building. It is through the ability of companies to grow that jobs are created. More growing companies mean more life chances for individuals. It means a reduced exclusion. Ultimately, it means increased tax revenue, which is what finances our common welfare. Companies should be created and run by people. As Mr Rothenberg said, it is about people of flesh and blood. It is people who dare to take risks and who dare to realize their dreams. The best support that the state can give to innovation and entrepreneurship is to step back and allow the market to function in the very form that works best. Artificial breathing and government interventions risk distorting competition and making the case all the deeper once the crash comes. We saw it at the end of the 20th century in the shipbuilding industry, in the textile industry and in other sectors that were not prepared when globalisation swept over our country. The lion's share of companies' financing is well managed in the free market. State venture capital is here a market economy anomaly, which in some cases may be necessary but far from desirable. State aid performs a function where the market in one way or another does not function or where rural areas and geographical challenges make it difficult for companies to supply capital. However, there is no intrinsic value in having such a comprehensive state aid system and state venture capital as we have today. For example, government spending in this area could be reshaped to include investment deductions for entrepreneurs so that they can invest in their own ideas and those of other entrepreneurs. When these efforts are made, they must be closely monitored, as the National Audit Office's report has shown. The government has not fulfilled its responsibility to follow up the work. Perhaps politics sometimes believes that an intention or placard politics or the like is enough to reverse a certain trend. But the so-called intention or initiative can sometimes be the very purpose of politics, which is not sustainable in the long term. It only creates scenes and no sustainable and viable companies. In the alliance reservation, as my colleagues have explained before, we reserve our reservations on this report. I'll settle for that.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-564	Mr President, I would like to A report from the Swedish National Audit Office may not be so exciting all the time. But it is all the more important, I would say. In the report on state aid for innovation and entrepreneurship, it is about SEK 27 billion. 27 billion dollars is not despicable money. You could imagine almost ten municipalities of my hometown of Trollhättan's size for that money. The Swedish National Audit Office has in itself only looked at four authorities. It is Vinnova, the Swedish Energy Agency, the Swedish Agency for Growth and Growth Analysis. Officials at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry have been interviewed. And you have done a field study or a small observation when it comes to one of Vinnova's programs. Some conclusions have then been reached. I'll get back to them. However, we can already say that we have not talked to those who have or should have benefited from the money distributed. What is said is that there is a lack of useful data that allows support to be monitored effectively. The support that the Swedish National Audit Office has focused on is about creating growth. But what can you say when there is so little follow-up to see if it has actually been so? The Swedish National Audit Office notes that, despite this deficiency, support can create some benefit. However, in order to increase confidence in the system and steer efforts where they are most useful, it is considered that certain measures should be taken. Then I would like to get to grips with the fact that we have a huge system of innovation in this country. It's a business advisor. There are several types of organisations that focus on different forms of enterprise. We have industry organisations that work with the development of entrepreneurship. We have incubators. We have research parks and various other things. This is supported not only by this 27 billion in government money. It is also about local funds from the municipalities, regional funds from county councils and regions, and not least private capital from companies and other investors. When we talk about the whole innovation system and how to support it, I really want to be among the first to say: It is clear that there must be systems that allow you to follow up on this, where the money is spent and how it best benefits. The most interesting thing is something that we raised in the previous debate, which was about nutrition policy. There we raised the issue of the Rule Council, which will look at legislative proposals and see if there will be good or bad consequences for companies. Here, too, it would have been appropriate. When introducing different rules and support to benefit not least start-ups, it is all the more important to link them to such issues. If you have started a business and want to seek support, it is actually more difficult than if it is a newly started company that needs to get a development capital of some kind. There are a lot of things to do here. I think it is important for us to aim together, regardless of the party, to find a system quite soon. We need to see if all the actors in the innovation system are needed. Anyone I've met can show you good performance and a good job in itself. However, the question is whether we can do this even better so that we get even more companies that can hire more and can be sustainable in the long run. As the Swedish National Audit Office says, this means that the supporting authorities must be able to plan evaluations already when they make plans for the programmes themselves and have the processes clear. The applicant must know this: one must have the process clear, know what the money is to be used for and how evaluation is to be done. Anyone who has applied for funding for some kind of project knows that it works that way. We in the Alliance have focused in particular on companies being aware that state aid for innovation exists at all, so that it can benefit more people. Having said that, I very much hope that, within politics, we will be able to come up with something within a year in which we can see how we can better give money to sensible activities and evaluate the impact.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-573	Mr President, I would like to It is in the interests of the state and thus of the Swedish people that innovation and entrepreneurship develop well. This means that forms of cooperation and support, such as we are dealing with in this matter, need to be kept under review in order to ensure that they are as well designed and sharpened as possible. It is therefore welcome that the Swedish National Audit Office, through the letter that we are to adopt today, is submitting a report on state support for innovation and entrepreneurship. I would like to take this opportunity, Mr President, to support the committee's proposal in the report. Sweden's development is linked to many forward-looking innovations, which have been successful also internationally. They can be measured in thousands. Some are well-known products. The ventilator, the heart-lung machine, the welding helmet, Tetra Pak and Spotify are just a few examples. Each was groundbreaking when they were developed, but behind is, of course, years of stubborn work with many actors involved. The breeding ground that exists needs to continue to develop. In particular, it is important to make small and medium-sized enterprises grow and also invest internationally. There is talk today of challenges. In the debate we have heard earlier about concepts of time, such as digitalisation, globalisation, robotics, life science and smart cities. All these are areas where a lot of focus is placed and there is a pooling of forces. The government's focus on this area is clear, as I see it. The innovation system will be strengthened. The audit carried out takes into account the state of play in these cases. Three authorities have participated in the review: The Swedish Agency for Innovation Systems, Vinnova, the Swedish Energy Agency and the Swedish Agency for Growth. On the basis of these, the most aid is paid out to small and medium-sized players, whom we want to grow further. Overall, it can be stressed that the Government shares a large part of the Swedish National Audit Office's observations that there is a need for more methods that make it possible to follow up the efforts made in a good way. I share the view of both the Committee and the Swedish National Audit Office that it is important that state aid to companies contributes to increased growth and is socially profitable. The review has resulted in two recommendations to the Government and two recommendations to the relevant authorities. For the government, it is about creating better conditions for an overview and designing Growth Analysis assignments in a way that allows the agency to contribute with a more systematic knowledge of company support. The government agrees with the description of the problem, but stresses that the knowledge within the Government Office about the individual efforts is good. Reports are made regularly, both in writing and orally in different ways. For my part, I understand that it can sometimes be an extremely delicate task to assess whether different inventions and development work really lead to innovation. As you know, the road to success contains both failures and entanglements. Of course, this work can cost a great deal of effort and money. Mr President, I would like to Only yesterday I took part in a panel debate and a seminar on this subject. It was arranged by Snitts, a well-known network organization for innovators, and it was held at Vinnova. A number of companies, universities and colleges as well as representatives of the industry participated. There was a wealth of experience and knowledge in the field. At the meeting there was broad consensus that the role of the state as a supporting force is important. It was also highlighted that inventions and creativity do not always allow themselves to be housed in a form that makes it easy to measure in a clear way. In this context, collaboration, dialogue and common meeting places can be one that can meet the requirements that we citizens must de facto impose on transparency and transparency. I note that in their motion, the motionaries, the Moderates, the Centres, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats highlight clearer objectives and that independent impact assessments of state aid should be the norm for supporting authorities. However, I do not see any strong objections in substance to the overall work under way to strengthen Sweden as an innovation country. There may also be no difference in the target formulations compared to previous governments. It is about Swedish business policy having to strengthen competitiveness and create the conditions for more jobs in growing companies. To this can also be added export policy objectives, such as the maximum degree of free trade, increased trade and increased foreign investment. All of this can be related to things that promote innovation and where there are opportunities to develop activities in the field. Sharp targets exist. But precisely in this case and in these contexts that we are now talking about, the government has undertaken to further strengthen its objectives, based on what the National Audit Office has said. As the government has announced several measures, including the development of evaluation and analytical methods, in accordance with the will of the exercise, I see no reason for anything other than rejecting the exercise. Much of the work that is being called for is already being done. Mr President, I would like to On the basis of all of this, the letter and the measures that the government implements and intends to implement can be approved. It is of great importance that this should be done for continued favourable and forward-looking development.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-588	Mr President, I would like to I'll see if I can make my speech on my five fingers. First of all, I'm glad we have a National Audit Office. Secondly, I am pleased that it has looked at this area, which is so important for Swedish innovation and Swedish entrepreneurship. Thirdly, I would like to say that we very much share the view of the Swedish National Audit Office on the need to develop state support in terms of overview and efficiency. Fourthly, the government takes and announces a number of measures in this area, and I therefore believe that the exercisers are opening doors. Fifthly, I call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for the motion to be rejected.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-593	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed Swedish aid – predictability and long-term sustainability. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. It is clear that the Swedish National Audit Office's proposal to improve the budgeting and planning of aid should be implemented. The Government's response to the Swedish National Audit Office's report lacks sharp proposals. A more holistic approach is needed, or why not a fresh start. The world is worried, and the conflicts are fewer but worse. External changes can take place quickly, and they affect Sweden directly. When many fled from war and oppression and ended up in Sweden at the same time, the government and the Ministry of Finance thought of allowing two thirds of the aid to stay in Sweden and go to refugee reception for the first year. They were completely unprepared and planned according to old figures, although new information seems to have been available. The government had not acted or dealt with the uncertainties affecting the aid budget early enough. This is confirmed by the Swedish National Audit Office. The government's shortcomings affect the quality and predictability of aid. I'm glad the Secretary of State is here today! The Minister for Development also makes commitments on the size of the settlements, which are not based on government decisions. There are no formal decisions. It is difficult to monitor and review the government's activities. We have already discussed the terrible management of the aid budget in other matters, and the KU has criticised the way in which it is managed. It is about billions that the current government moves around in the budget. In 2016, the settlements – the money that goes to the first year of reception of refugees – were EUR 8 billion. First they increased by 4.1 billion in the budget, and then in the autumn they decreased by 6.1 billion. The Swedish National Audit Office's overall conclusion is that the state's preparedness to ensure long-term and predictable aid activities is low. It has been since 2010. Possibly part of the design of the 1% target, but uncertainty has increased. So the government has not acted. The Swedish National Audit Office wants the Government to review the calculation model used for forecasting, budgeting and accounting of asylum costs for the first year as part of the aid. According to the Budget Act, the result of that review must be reported to the Riksdag. Mr President, I would like to The committee also highlights a number of transparency issues in its position. It is also a criticism – or possibly a help to the government to improve. The committee highlights how important it is for the government to give a comprehensive report to the Riksdag on the results of the improvement work it claims to carry out. Otherwise, we cannot fulfil our constitutional task of reviewing the government and influencing the direction of politics. Mr President, I would like to The current government does not impress. There are shortcomings in political craftsmanship. We see it, the National Audit Office sees it, and I also think the voters see it.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-602	Mr President, I would like to A discussion on settlements will easily become technical. It gets caught up in reasoning on complex computational models and tight international regulations. I would therefore like to begin my speech by raising my eyes and explaining why this is an important debate for us left-wingers. We know that aid can make a difference. If aid is long-term and predictable, it can both change lives and save lives. If those who feel poverty and oppression in their daily lives put the agenda for aid, we know that together we can change the world. Not infrequently, small funds can make a big difference. For 200 crowns, an entire school class with Afghan girls and boys can get pens and paper. For a hundred, a pregnant Syrian woman on the run in Lebanon may have a health check. At the same time, Sweden has over the years taken SEK 66 billion from the development budget to finance refugee reception in Sweden. In 2015 alone, Dalarna received more aid than Bangladesh, while 5,200 Bangladeshi women die each year in connection with a birth. Isabella Lövin has during her time as Minister for International Development Cooperation taken many important initiatives. I have had reason to commend many of the initiatives both in the speaker's chair and in other contexts. Unfortunately, however, much of the work that the government has done is overshadowed by the fact that the current government has not only broken Swedish record in settlements, it has even become the government that accounts for the most in the world. The Left Party defends the right of asylum. But the reception of refugees in Sweden is not aid. It is not reasonable for the world's poor, hungry and oppressed people to pay for asylum costs in Sweden through a lack of aid. That is why, for a number of years now, we have been calling for a reduction in settlements. Our objective is clear, namely that aid should be used for development cooperation and nothing else. Mr President, I would like to The calculations have not only drained aid on important resources; they have created great uncertainty and reduced predictability. Basically, they have weakened Sweden's ability to carry out long-term aid that makes a difference. The year 2016 showed the major problems with the settlements. When the autumn budget was presented in September 2015, it was established that 8.2 billion, 19%, of the aid budget would be offset for refugee costs. Even when the Parliament was due to decide on the budget in December, the reality had run from the draft budget. The Minister of Finance said that as much as 60% of the aid would be offset. In the spring change budget, the settlements increased to 12.2 billion, i.e. 28% of the aid budget. But during the summer the Swedish borders were closed to a large extent, fewer applied for asylum in Sweden and in the autumn the budget for the change was reduced to SEK 5.9 billion. The hypocrisy and short-termness obviously had consequences for many of Sweden's partners around the world. International organisations were first told that Sweden would reduce its support and even that Sweden would break agreements, in order to get completely new answers a few months later. I myself have met many actors around the south who have rightly asked themselves whether they can trust Sweden's support. Sweden's credibility as an aid actor has been damaged. The audit by the Swedish National Audit Office highlights the major problems with the calculations and leaves major questions about Swedish aid. What has actually been depreciated? Could the settlements have been reduced? Could the large fluctuations in the calculations have been avoided? The main recommendation of the Swedish National Audit Office is that the Government should review the model for settlements. It is clear that such a review is needed. Unfortunately, we see that the government has chosen to set up a group of officials from the Justice, Foreign and Finance Departments to review, with a narrow mandate, the planning conditions for aid. Aid deserves to be taken more seriously than that! The Committee on Foreign Affairs today stresses that we assume that the Government will carry out a comprehensive review based on the Swedish National Audit Office's review, which takes into account different options for calculating and allocating asylum costs. I assume that the government will listen to the Riksdag and now make a real review. During the committee's examination of the Swedish National Audit Office's review, there have been several reports indicating that the government has deliberately tried to maximise the settlements and carried out settlements that are contrary to the international regulations laid down by the OECD Development Assistance Committee Dac. The government has argued that the criticism is wrong. But for us elected MPs, for us MPs, it is not possible to say who is right and who is wrong in the discussion because we lack basic information and facts about the Swedish accounts. We in this House today cannot answer the question of what has actually been set off and how the settlements have been calculated. Why is SEK 216 000 taken this year from the development budget for every asylum seeker who comes to Sweden, while during Göran Persson's time as Prime Minister, only SEK 55 000 was taken? If I go to Openaid, the website where the Swedish aid is to be reported, I can read that the Swedish aid organisation Diakonia has received 107 000 SEK for five years to counteract the spread of HIV/AIDS in Burkina Faso. And I can take part in a detailed description of the project. However, the settlements are reported in a lump sum of SEK 8.89 billion without any information on what has been settled. Around the world, Sweden speaks warmly about accountability and transparency. But here at home, at home, there is a fundamental lack of opportunity for Parliament to review a budget line of over SEK 8 billion. There are fundamentally no opportunities for us elected representatives to hold the government accountable. It doesn't make sense. Today, a united Foreign Affairs Committee marks the importance of increasing transparency. In our report, the Committee wishes to emphasise the importance of ensuring that the amounts reported on Openaid are comparable between different years and that it is clear how the costs have been calculated. ..................................................... I also assume that the government listens to the Riksdag and is taking steps urgently to increase transparency around the settlements. I am pleased that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has chosen to be clear on several points in its report. But there are also some areas where we, the Left Party, would have liked to have taken a few more steps. The Left Party wants the government to report on an ongoing basis how the settlements from the aid for migration costs relate to the objectives of the aid, and we want an independent review and review of the extent to which the settlements from the aid budget carried out are consistent with OECD-DAC guidelines. That is why I am in favour of reservation 2.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-623	Mr President, I would like to On August 26, 2016, the Swedish National Audit Office submitted its audit report A predictable aid – despite uncertain funding. In the report, the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Sida's long-term and predictable planning of development aid operations. We Christian Democrats welcome the review carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office. Predictability and long-term sustainability of the aid is important in order to implement effective aid but also in order for the Riksdag, which has the task of reviewing the Government's budget, to be able to carry out its mission. In the report, the Swedish National Audit Office states that the state's preparedness to ensure long-term and predictable aid activities has been low during the period under review. It is also noted that uncertainty in the volume of funding has increased over the period but that the government has not acted to increase predictability in the budgeting of aid. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that the Government should improve its budgeting and planning so that the ambitions of the Riksdag and the Government for a long-term predictable Swedish development aid activity can be achieved. Mr President, I would like to A key prerequisite for effective aid interventions is long-term planning for the delivery of aid. The Swedish National Audit Office points to a central aspect of uncertainty in aid planning. This is the cost of receiving asylum seekers in Sweden. The so-called settlements of asylum costs are carried out on the basis of guidelines from the Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, OECD-DAC. The link between aid and the gross domestic product index and the costs of asylum reception leads to uncertainty as to how much money remains for aid activities for a given year. Although asylum reception settlements have increased sharply with the increase in the number of asylum seekers in our country, mainly in 2015, uncertainty is not new. The difficulty of forecasting the number of asylum seekers as well as the development of BNI has for a long time led to difficulties in budgeting aid activities. This is an uncertainty that places high demands on both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Sida when it comes to ensuring that Sweden's development activities are managed effectively and lead to set goals. However, it also requires the government to budget and report the aid framework so as to limit the negative consequences of uncertainty. Mr President, I would like to Today, we are debating the Government's letter, in which it presents its assessment of the Swedish National Audit Office's observations and the measures taken or planned in response to the recommendations made by the Swedish National Audit Office. It is good that the government sees a need to review the model for calculating asylum costs in the aid and has now decided to revise the model. The need to review the system of settlements as a whole is something that we in the Christian Democrats have driven in our budget motion. It is also important that the Government sees the need to clarify in the amending budgets the reasons for changes to the Riksdag. An important transparency issue highlighted in the report by the committee is how the costs of asylum seekers are calculated. The committee welcomes the fact that the settlements for refugee costs in Sweden are reported on openaid.se. However, the website only states that the settlements relate to the costs of reception of asylum seekers from ODA countries during the first 12 months of their stay in Sweden. No description is given of what is included in these costs or how these are calculated. The committee stresses the importance of ensuring that the amounts reported on Openaid are comparable between different years and that it is clear how the costs have been calculated. Mr President, I would like to The overall criticism in the Swedish National Audit Office's review report A predictable aid – despite uncertain funding confirms that the government has not acted satisfactorily to deal with the uncertainties affecting the aid budget. The audit criticises the major amending budgets during the financial year which have hindered the long-term planning of aid interventions. It is also very difficult to follow how these costs have been calculated. The Christian Democrats consider it necessary for the government to return to Parliament as soon as possible with an account of how large amending budgets can be avoided in the future and how transparency can be increased. Mr President, I would like to Swedish development cooperation today has strong support from the Swedish population, and the Swedish willingness to provide aid remains high. However, major changes in the aid budget can create uncertainty about what the 1% target actually means and ultimately also damage public confidence in Swedish development cooperation. The Christian Democrats want clarity and order in the aid and that there is a careful review and follow-up of Swedish aid. With this, Mr President, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 3.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-640	Mrs. Old President! Today, we are debating the Government's letter in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's review of predictability and long-term sustainability of aid. Development aid is an investment, an investment in, among other things, jobs, education, healthcare and the environment – mostly in other parts of the world. To be maximum efficient, an investment must be predictable and long-term. A house is not built on loose sand. It has been thought through how many rooms are needed, the location and what it will cost. There's a blueprint and a plan. Predictability and long-term sustainability of aid is important, both in order to ensure the effectiveness of the efforts and to increase Parliament's ability to review the government's budget as a whole and influence the direction of policy. It is good that the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed planning and predictability within the development activities. Good planning opportunities are a prerequisite for aid effectiveness, which is a fundamental principle of Swedish development cooperation. The Government has already taken important steps in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's review in order to achieve increased predictability in the aid. This is very welcome. This makes the investment and calculation more credible. For example, the government has already started work on a review of the model used for forecasting, budgeting and accounting of asylum costs within the aid. On the part of the committee, we agree that there is a need to review the model and its impact on the financing of aid activities in order to create better planning conditions within aid. The government's use of amending budgets is a transparent way of adapting the calculation to changes in the world environment, and the basis of the budgets will be further developed in order for Parliament to be better informed about the reasons for the changes and the consequences. Both Sida and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs have ongoing work to develop working methods and analyses to achieve better preparedness to manage change. We look forward to a comprehensive report from the government on the improvement work in progress. With this, I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-651	Mrs. Old President! My question to Maria Andersson Willner is whether she and the Social Democrats today can say with 100% certainty that the settlements that are being carried out today are compatible with the international regulations laid down by the OECD Development Assistance Committee (DAC). I ask this question because, in recent months, there has been a series of data from various sources, including from the Concord aid network, that some of the settlements made are not in line with international regulations. As I said in my speech, as a Member of Parliament, I find it very difficult to determine what really applies, because transparency is so lacking. It is now completely impossible for me as a elected Member of Parliament to see clearly what is excluded and how the calculation has been calculated. Perhaps Maria Andersson Willner, who belongs to one of the government parties, sits on more information than I do as a representative of an opposition party. It would therefore be interesting to hear whether Maria Andersson Willner can today guarantee the Swedish Parliament that the settlements that are being carried out today are compatible with the OECD-DAC regulations.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-654	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Mr Linde, for the question. I am very pleased that Concord has produced this report. It also shows that transparency is increasing with this government. Concord says that the report would have been impossible to sign up to the previous government because it is so difficult to get into these figures. I have every reason to believe in the government when it is said that the depreciations made are Dacfähiga. It is up to the government to assess this. The reviews that have been made of this afterwards also show that what we have reported as Dacfähigt has also been Dacfähigt.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-656	Mrs. Old President! Maria Andersson Willner says she has every reason to trust the government. It is possible that we all have every reason to trust the government, but I interpret the answer as saying that, just as I have not been able to ensure on my own that the settlements made are compatible with international regulations. Of course, transparency has increased, and the transparency of the accounts has increased, but it is still very difficult, if not impossible, for us as elected MPs to seriously demand responsibility and review this budget line, which is now more than SEK 8 billion. There are several of us who have mentioned in the report that there needs to be an independent review in order to ensure that the settlements are compatible with the rules of the DAC. We have heard from the government that the review they are currently working on will not look at the Dac acquis at all, because it is assumed that the settlements already being carried out are compatible with Dac. Unfortunately, a large majority in the committee has rejected the proposals made by both the Left Party and the Christian Democrats for an independent review. Nevertheless, I would like to ask Maria Willner: if you are so sure that the settlements carried out are compatible with Dac's rules, why are you not prepared to open up to an independent review and review? Why do you say no to the proposals that have been put forward by several parties, both left and right, in this debate?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-660	Mrs. Old President! Thank you for the question, Hans Linde. I am convinced that the Government will come back to these issues in its speech. We have a framework that the government has to interpret when it comes to settlements in accordance with Dac. We should be very careful that the calculations made are Dacfähiga, and so are we. We are a great donor, and we are watching. There is every reason for us to be very careful about this. The review of the model will make it more transparent. This makes it easier for the Riksdag to review. As Mr Linde points out, we in the committee have stressed the importance of transparency regarding the aid framework and what is included in the settlements. I look forward to the work that the government is doing in this area and that it will lead to us being better able to review from the Parliament.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-663	Mrs. Old President! A living and viable society takes time and effort to build up, but it can be destroyed within a few weeks, on the sole initiative of a single ruler. I think of cities like Kabul, Mogadishu, Mosul and Aleppo. For us today, they are associated with incomparable misery and tragedy, insecurity, uncertainty, despair, fear and flight. For many of their old inhabitants, memories of the time when commerce flourished and schools were filled with students — girls and boys may still be. It was a place where children could play on the street without fear of their lives. It is in these difficult, not to say almost impossible, environments that our Swedish aid money and aid workers make a difference. They make a difference in people's everyday lives and people's lives every day. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of you who have contributed to creating a world-class Swedish development cooperation. We are distinguished internationally by the highest quality and the ability to do things that even countries with greater resources cannot cope with. We saw this, for example, in Liberia and Sierra Leone during the Ebola crisis. At the time, it was doctors and nurses, staff at MSB and not least our incomparable Hans Rosling who showed that courage, patience, willpower and a great organizational capacity could help prevent a much greater disaster. For over half a century, our fantastic staff at the Swedish Aid Agency Sida has brought development in the world forward with new, fresh and innovative ideas but also with proven and quality-assured methods. In all this, as one of the few countries in the world, we have a broad and cross-block consensus on the 1% target and can therefore create the conditions for a large measure of both long-term and predictability. We all have a reason to be very proud of our Swedish development cooperation. Mrs. Old President! The Swedish National Audit Office's report on this is therefore important and welcome, not least so that we can continue to feel safe and secure with the high quality and transparency of Swedish development cooperation. If Sweden is to continue to be a leading player in development cooperation, taxpayers must also feel that the money makes a difference. And for them to be able to do so, it requires foresight, clarity and transparency. The Swedish National Audit Office points to a number of measures that the Government has had to take to ensure this. For example, it is good that the government is now reviewing the model for the settlements and has already increased transparency when it comes to reporting how the settlements are made. Here, since the current model was introduced under the previous government, it has been difficult to see and understand how the money has been used and accounted for. Here the government has already taken several steps towards greater transparency, and further steps will be taken. It is also worth noting that the government's efforts to provide information on aid also mean that more people can benefit from what development cooperation actually does and contributes to in the world. I would like to thank the government for its reply and to support the committee's proposal.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-673	Mrs. Old President! It is an important review that the Swedish National Audit Office has made, and we are clear from the Foreign Affairs Committee that we think it is important that the Swedish Audit Office examines how the aid is used. As has been shown in the past, we agree on a level of aid of 1% of BNI. However, we also agree relatively broadly that payments should be made from aid. This has not always been the case. If we had had this debate for, let us say, three years ago, spring 2014, we would have been able to hear how representatives of not only the Left Party but also the Green Party clearly criticised this and said that all settlements would end and that this should be done differently. Here too, however, there has now been a broader consensus in the debate. This includes even the Left Party, although it may not sound like that when listening to Hans Linde in this conversation. From the Center Party we note that both the current and the previous government have been engaged in settlements. It's been a concern. Over the years, I myself have struggled with these issues. I have even tried in Paris, in connection with Dac meetings, to discuss how this management should actually be done. We think it is important that the Swedish National Audit Office has now indicated that preparedness must be created to manage changes in the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' grant part and that Sida must develop its preparedness for change. We've seen a very troubling story. In the autumn of 2015 we saw how the aid budget became an accordion that went even here, than there in the discussion that we experienced. It was then summed up, not at the one per cent level that we have agreed on, but at 1.4 per cent, which was reported to Dac. Asylum costs had increased, and all of a sudden there was 1.4 per cent of bni reported as Swedish aid. Of course, how such a statement is to be viewed is a question to be asked. The budget for 2016 has been a shaky trip, as we were later informed about how to count. It has both increased and decreased. As far as the Center Party is concerned, it is important to follow the OECD guidelines. We welcome a review of these guidelines and the ongoing work in Dac to try to come up with a clearer regulatory framework. We hope that this can be done and that it can be done in a way that we have the opportunity to follow up. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we have tried this year, at this reading, to get a deeper view. We have reviewed various tasks, both from the media and from organizational life. I agree with what others have said: when the committee left this report, there were many of us who felt that question marks remained and that we could see no clarity in the calculation of settlements. As I said, this is not a small entry today, for example, if you look at openaid.se. We in the Center Party have said yes to making settlements, but we want them to be possible to follow up, so that we get clarity and transparency in this part too. When the settlements were smaller, the picture was perhaps seen a little more from the side, but when the settlements are as large as they are now, it is important that we create transparency. For example, we write about transparency guarantee on openaid.se. When you read what it says – when you follow the different areas and see the clarity – you find that there are strategies for all areas except this one, which one can think about. There's no strategy here. There is nothing so clear here to follow up. Nevertheless, it is clear that we should have the greatest possible transparency in aid, which I think we agree on. It is important that our taxpayers know how the aid money is spent, and it is also important for our partners to be able to monitor how our development aid looks and how it develops. I therefore hope that we will receive a comprehensive report from the government. I also hope that this time we will have an account that is possible for Parliament to follow up and review, because that is our role. We naturally thank the Swedish National Audit Office for the assistance in this work, but we also hope that the government is prepared to return and to do more.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-689	Mrs. Old President! Today, we will discuss the Swedish National Audit Office's report on predictability and long-term sustainability of aid. I think one can admit that there are many difficult and difficult balances, but transparency and transparency must nevertheless be a guiding principle here. The Alliance principle when we built openaid.se during our eight years of government must be applicable to all political fields. I agree with those of you who have pointed out earlier in the debate that the handling of settlements for refugee costs must be equally transparent. I would like to start by saying that, at a time when country after country is cutting back on its aid, it is of the utmost importance to safeguard solidarity, uphold values and safeguard the 1% target in aid. One of the world's largest donors, the United States, chooses to radically reduce support for women's health. Government after government in Europe reduces its support for people living in closed dictatorships. During the worst crisis of the world's refugees, the UN had less than 35% of the needs covered. In such a time solidarity is being tested. It shows that the 1% target, which gives concrete expression to our solidarity, has not served but is needed more than ever. This is what I say as a liberal and therefore as a representative of one of the parties that was the first to advocate this goal many decades ago. But politics is not just to want – it is also to choose. We must prioritise and have generous but value-driven aid. During the alliance years, an aid policy platform was adopted. It made much more demands on results, transparency and evaluation than we have seen in the past in development policy. It was in many ways necessary. Particularly in a crisis for the world's refugees and when democracy goes backwards, it is important that we give priority in aid policy to those projects that give people more freedom. This platform now wants the government to tear up and replace it with a kind of policy framework. We will debate this in this House later in the spring. But it has not been quite clear what the government is actually prioritising. We Liberals think that taxpayers need to know what the money is for and whether it is useful. In its report, the Swedish National Audit Office points to several shortcomings regarding the possibility of follow-up and predictability. The Swedish National Audit Office wants the Government to improve its budgeting and planning, so that our ambitions for a long-term predictable Swedish development aid activity can be achieved. On the Liberal side, we would like to stress the importance of taking this criticism very seriously. Writer Sylvia Plath once wrote: If you do not expect anything from anyone, you can never be disappointed either. So the lower the expectations we have for good development in some countries with which we work, the less disappointment. But if we, as democrats, set the democratic bar too low for countries that lack, for example, freedom and rights, we will also betray their populations. That is why it is obvious when we discuss transparency, transparency and efficiency that we donor countries should not put the recipients on their noses. Every person should be able to decide for himself on his or her future. But every democratic country must then also decide how to lead a country. We must then be able to keep two thoughts in our heads at the same time. In many of the countries to which we provide assistance, there is a lack of adequate democratic governance. In many cases, the regime in such countries is not looking for the good of the people but for its own good. It is reasonable, then, for us to make sharper demands than those directed at us today. We have a responsibility that the Swedish tax money we send is of real benefit to people who live in countries with dictatorship. That is why it is incredibly obvious for us Liberals to continue to make strict demands on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in aid. The countries we give to cannot offend their citizens without our reaction. If they are to have Swedish aid, they should also respect democratic principles and allow their population to flourish. In the poorer part of the world, the lack of reforms is more often a greater problem than the lack of resources. This is a problem that cannot be paid off. It is the legislatures in these countries that must act themselves to clean up corruption and liberalise economies. In order to steer countries that are moving in the right direction, states that are undertaking democratic reforms, promoting human rights, equality and transparency and reducing corruption must be rewarded for this. Aid must also be renewed. One thing that comes up in the Swedish National Audit Office's report, and which we have debated a lot over the years in the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs, is the reforms that have taken place to the DAC criteria. I would like to say, as a Liberal, that we must continue to be much clearer about the fact that aid money cannot be used for various military activities. It is a very clear and important boundary to which we must adhere. However, it is positive that it is now possible, under the DAC criteria, to use aid to prevent, for example, violence-promoting extremism. Here I think that Sweden could use a country like Tunisia – the only good example we have from the Arab spring – and ensure that it becomes a pilot project that can be applied to other countries. It is a democracy that is young and new, but which also fights tremendously against violent Islamist extremists. It is the country that actually has the most spies who have joined Daish. That connection is also very important that we raise. We have budgeted for this in our budget motion for aid. Sweden is a medium-sized country in the EU and a small country in the UN, but we can and must make a difference. Then we must also pursue issues that are politically sensitive. Today, when democracy backs for the eleventh year in a row, it is a pure survival strategy to support transparently and openly the good forces that are moving in the right direction.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-707	Madam President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen. We live in a time of great global challenges. The war in Syria is now in its seventh year. It has caused terrible suffering and widespread hopelessness for millions of people. But at the same time, wars and conflicts are taking place in a number of other parts of the world, less in the light of the media, but still a disaster for millions of people. There is nothing that destroys opportunities for development as much as wars and conflicts. War destroys states, communities, schools, hospitals, roads and bridges. But they also strike at the most basic thing we have, and that is trust in one another, trust in human relations. In total, over 65 million people are now on the run, half of whom are children. Humanitarian needs in the world have grown explosively in recent years. 130 million people are now in need of humanitarian aid to make it through. This is the background to Sweden receiving more than 160 000 people in 2015 who sought refuge in our country. I am extremely proud of the humanitarian effort that Sweden has carried out, and is still carrying out, in this globally very difficult situation. I am proud that Sweden is the world's seventh largest humanitarian donor in absolute terms, and we are the largest nuclear donor to UNHCR. We have taken a huge responsibility to receive people on the run from war when large parts of Europe failed. It is a background that I think is important to include in today's important debate. We live in an exceptional time when Sweden has taken an exceptionally great responsibility. Mrs. Old President! There is strong support for the aid from Swedish taxpayers. That is extremely positive. However, taxpayers also expect transparency, predictability and long-term sustainability in the planning and quality of aid. It's obvious. This is, of course, one of the basic prerequisites for the effective operation of aid. I therefore welcome the Swedish National Audit Office's review of aid activities and whether the aid is planned in a long-term and predictable manner. It is an important basis for the government's efforts to continue to make aid more effective. The Swedish National Audit Office proposes that the whole model for calculating the calculations be reviewed, and the Government agrees with this need. We have therefore just begun such a review. Work is now under way in the Government Office to review the model in relation to aid policy objectives and the fiscal framework. The work will be completed in 2017 and presented in an upcoming budget proposal. In accordance with the Foreign Affairs Committee's report, the government will consider various alternative models. At the same time, we will relate to the ongoing work of OECD-DAC to clarify the guidelines for reporting asylum costs in the donor country. A fundamental challenge in this work is that asylum costs should be reported annually to OECD-DAC, while the actual costs of receiving asylum will only become known much later, sometimes many years later. This means that, like other countries, we must use some form of model to make the calculation. It is therefore important to have realistic expectations of how much a model can correspond to the exact costs of each year. Another key issue in this context is transparency. The government has improved transparency in the accounting of asylum costs. In the autumn 2016 amending budget, we stated clearly how funds that were returned to the aid would be used within Sida's and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' activities. The 2017 budget bill expanded the reporting of asylum costs. It explains, inter alia, why the estimated costs in the 2015 budget bill differed from the actual outturn reported to OECD-Dac. The Government is now also reviewing how the accounting can be improved in the state's annual accounts. The government will consider further measures to increase transparency and thus also understanding of the settlement model. For example, it can be considered how the aid platform openaid.se could be used to continue increasing transparency in Swedish aid. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and Sida has started work, mainly during 2015, which in the long term has good prospects for increasing long-term sustainability and predictability. It is positive that this is recognised by the Swedish National Audit Office. I would like to take this opportunity to mention that this improvement work will continue during the term of office. Mrs. Old President! Aid is needed more than ever. Therefore, before Christmas, the government presented a new policy framework for Swedish development cooperation and humanitarian aid based on the major changes we see in our environment and adapted to the new global development agenda. Sweden should be at the forefront and drive forward in the international work for effective and sustainable aid that creates the conditions for people to rise out of poverty and oppression. I am proud that Sweden stands up for the effectiveness and integrity of aid at a time when many donor countries are pushing to broaden the definition of aid so that resources can be used more in donor countries' self-interest than in helping people to rise out of poverty. I am also pleased with the broad commitment that exists in this House to Sweden's development cooperation. I note that all parties except two support the fact that we should have 1% of GDP in aid. We also have a broad consensus on fundamental issues relating to the effectiveness of aid. Unfortunately, this is not the case in many of the other European countries.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-722	Mrs. Old President! I thank the Minister for being here today and participating in the discussion. I'm a little surprised that I was the only one who took a line. For the committee, this should be one of the most important debates we have, the one about how we create predictable and thus also effective aid. I am surprised at how lazy it is from parts of the committee and at the fact that some of the parties who tend to describe themselves as aid-friendly have not even endeavoured to write a motion and much less a reservation or a specific opinion. This does not mean, however, that the Left Party lacks issues that we want to raise in this discussion. I welcome the announcement from Isabella Lövin that the government will review. Now we got a little different from what we received in committee earlier. At that time Isabella Lövin described it as an official process where you should only look at the planning conditions for the aid. I understand today's announcement that the government has really listened to the committee, and I welcome that. I look forward to the Government presenting a comprehensive review of the Swedish settlement model. Isabella Lövin and I have had many discussions about the Swedish settlement over the years. Isabella Lövin has repeatedly repeated that the Swedish settlements are compatible with Dac's international regulations – just as her predecessors have also said. I have had no reason to question this, but now there have been several reports that question whether the Swedish settlements are really compatible with Dac's regulations. Concord says that at least 20% of aid bills go to administrative costs and question whether it is compatible with Dac's regulatory framework. It is questioned whether the government really is living up to the regulatory framework that says that you can only offset costs for an asylum seeker for the first year, because we see that costs for refugee children that came in 2015 are deducted from both the 2016 and 2017 budgets. Can Isabella Lövin today in this House guarantee us in committee that the Swedish settlements to the last krona are compatible with Dac's rules?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-731	Mrs. Old President! I thank Mr Linde for his commitment and the question. These are very important issues. We have explained to Dac how we calculate the settlements, and Dac has had no comments on that. Many Member States have very different models for calculating refugee costs. Sweden is not, as Mr Linde said earlier, the country that charges the largest flat-rate costs for refugees. Nine countries have a higher cost, including Italy, Denmark and the Netherlands. It is important that what should be counted off is Dacfähigt, and the data and reactions we have received from Dac give no other indication. Dac is now working towards greater harmonisation in how countries report, so that there will be greater transparency. This work, in which Sweden is involved, will be valuable and useful to move forward in the discussion. The work is not about us having the same models in all countries, but about us reporting in an open and transparent way so that it is possible to accurately interpret how different countries act. It's important. Speaking of the vigour of aid, I would like to say that it was not only aid that was affected when 163 000 people came to Sweden in 2015, but it was a major impact on our whole society and in many areas of expenditure. We have nevertheless handled this well with our work, says Riksrevisionen.
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-737	Mrs. Old President! When I said in my speech that, unfortunately, Sweden is at the top of the world when it comes to settlements, I referred to how much of the aid budget goes to settlement for refugee costs, and here, unfortunately, Sweden is the world leader today. There are different data about what Dac actually says about the Swedish settlements. As Isabella Lövin says, Dac has had no comments on what Sweden has reported, which has been interpreted as an approval. The Left Party chose to e-mail Dac's secretariat and ask how you view the Swedish settlements. The answer we were given was, freely translated by me from English: on the basis of the existing regulations, the Dac Secretariat has no strong arguments for neither approving nor not approving the models used by the Member States today. In other words, Dac has not taken a position on the Swedish model of settlements. It is not possible to lean against this. We need a clear search. It is a pity that both the committee and the government have rejected the idea of carrying out an independent review of the Swedish settlements to ensure that they are compatible with Dac's rules. If it is judged that all settlements are compatible with the rules, there would be nothing to hide or worry about in an independent review. As far as openaid.se is concerned, the committee would like to see a clearer presentation of the accounts for the reception of refugees. Today it is presented in a lump sum without any information on what is offset and how it has been calculated. What does the government intend to do from the clear input of the Foreign Affairs Committee? In what way will openaid.se be used to more clearly and transparently account for refugee settlements there?
i-2d8ac22958d2ac33-744	Mrs. Old President! The fact that Sweden is a world leader in terms of effective and qualitative aid provided OECD-Dac with a receipt of its latest evaluation. Here we have risen in all the parameters where criticism was previously given. We are also one of the few countries in the world that have aid in excess of 0.7% of our GDP. I have received a lot of respect in my short time as Minister of Aid for the high-quality work we are doing. Although we made large settlements, it did not affect ongoing operations during the exceptional situation in 2015. We managed to avoid breaking agreements or ongoing operations because we were able to plan with the help of Sida, among others. In terms of daily costs for refugees, it is described in the budget proposal how it is calculated. In Category 8 there is a detailed account of the proportion of expenditure going to different parts of the expenditure, such as daily allowance, school, health care and accommodation for unaccompanied minors. There is a clear explanation of how these costs are distributed in Category 8. Exactly how this will become clearer also on openaid.se it is too early to go into. Now we are reviewing the planning conditions and the model, and of course we are discussing how this will be as good as possible so that we get long-term and effective assistance and good planning conditions.
