i-610f6d507d02ce1c-0	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me what measures the government intends to take to make it more attractive for older people to extend their working lives. Creating good conditions for older people to be able to work longer is important. Looking at employers' contributions, social security contributions and wage taxes, older people have a favourable position on the labour market. The employer's contributions for persons aged 65 and over are about half as high as those for persons under the age of 65. On the income side, working older people benefit from tax advantages in the form of the increased job tax credit. The design of the pension system also means that those who work longer and retire later receive a higher annual pension. In order to get more older people to work, the working environment needs to be improved and work-related ill-health prevented. In order to strengthen the protection of workers and contribute to good conditions for a sustainable working life, the government has greatly strengthened resources in the field of health and safety at work policy. The health and safety strategy developed by the Government means a significantly increased level of ambition in the work environment. The Government has also commissioned the report on security and development of the employment in terms of working hours and leave to analyse how the work environment can be improved in order to make it possible to work full time in an entire working life. In the 2018 budget proposal, the Government also proposes that an Agency for Safety and Health at Work be set up to better exploit the knowledge from research in the practical work environment. Increased resources are needed to improve the working environment and working conditions in the local government sector. The Government's investment in welfare means significant resources that enable municipalities and county councils to strengthen health care, school and care. Such investments in welfare are also of great importance for the working environment, not least in many women-dominated industries, which are characterised by greater problems with ill health than other sectors.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-4	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We live longer and are increasingly healthy as an elderly person. It makes it natural to work higher up in the age group, both for the sake of pay and because you enjoy your workplace and because you feel that you can continue to make a valuable contribution. With an ageing population, we also need to work longer to finance our common welfare. Therefore, well-thought-out reforms are needed that are linked together in a whole. It must pay to work longer if you want to and can in all life's events for those who want to work, for those who work and for those who have worked. That is why industrial policy, labour market policy and our security systems must be synchronised in a long-term reform effort that addresses the economic challenges of welfare. I can't really see any red thread in the government budget for 2018 with a focus on this – on the whole – for us to meet the challenges of welfare in the future. The Alliance government implemented reforms to make it more attractive for older people to work and be employed. The fact that more older people continue to work is the result of an active policy and it now needs to be strengthened. Strengthened driving forces for higher-age work, an adapted working environment, as the Minister addresses in his response, and a well-functioning labour market policy strengthens the conditions for a longer working life for as many people as possible. It should pay for experienced employees or entrepreneurs to work longer. Therefore, we suggest Moderates that from the age of 64 onwards, instead of 65 years of age today, it should be lower taxes to work more. Our proposal means that 70 000 64-year-olds receive reduced tax through increased job tax deductions at a cost of SEK 2.6 billion. This increases the driving force for those who want to work longer. In a second step, we see the need to implement additional tax reductions for this group in order to make more people stay longer in the labour market. Overall, we estimate that the reform will increase permanent employment by 12 000 more people employed. I fully agree with the Minister's response to the need for a good and sustainable working environment if we are to be able to work longer. It is about both physical and psychologically good working environments, but also about the ability to choose and opt out of employers in, for example, the welfare sector. This is where the worrying increase in sick leave due to mental illness occurs. The public sector as an employer has very worrying sickness rates, not least in the contact professions. I also believe that there is a certain attitude towards the elderly and that the age fixation is widespread in Sweden. It is in many cases a silent discrimination that occurs from the age of 55. Sweden cannot afford that. Experience and skills must be rewarded. I think we should work much more with mentoring, especially in contact professions. As a sociologist, I know how difficult it is to be a recent graduate and not have someone to ask and get support from. Here the older experienced employee in a mentoring system could be a good support for the new employee. This would also allow us to reduce stress-related mental illness, which costs both the individual and society. I have read the referrals that came in when the government reintroduced the special payroll tax in 2016. It would be interesting to hear what the numerical employment effects are since the reintroduction of the special wage tax.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-12	Mr President, I would like to It is important that we can continue to fund welfare. What we see in the coming years is that we will be more older and more children. Then it is important that we have secure funding for welfare. This is something the government is focusing on. It is therefore important for older people to have the opportunity to work further into the labour market, but it is also extremely important for our young people to enter the labour market. Of course, we should work to ensure that older people can stay in the workplace – those who have the opportunity to do so. However, it is also important that we carry out extremely active work in order for young people to enter the labour market. No young person in Sweden should have to start their adult life by going unemployed month in and month out. Therefore, the government has a 90-day guarantee that allows every young person to be entitled to an opportunity to either study, have an internship or work and not go idle and unemployed. It's extremely important. The answers of the Moderates to the questions are the same as always. It often doesn't matter what question you ask, because you know that the moderate answer is to reduce the tax. That's how they want to solve the vast majority of social problems. The problem, however, is that what we are looking at is that we will need increased resources to finance welfare in the future. Then we cannot devote ourselves to the very wide-ranging tax cuts that the Moderates, together with their alliance parties, are looking forward to. Here, too, the Moderates have set themselves the stated goal of reducing the tax level in Sweden. This also means, of course, that they lower their ambitions when it comes to there being good schools for all our children and that there should be good support for our elderly when they grow old and need this support. The government is pursuing a completely different policy. Of course it is in Sweden that everyone who can work should work. We're going to work so that older people can work longer. When you ask the elderly themselves, you hear that it is not least the health experienced that is the problem when it comes to being able to work longer. Then it is important that we both work with well-functioning healthcare and work hard with the working environment, and the government has increased the ambitions for the working environment. It is important that all older people who can work also work. But it is also extremely important that all our young people not only receive good education and education but also have the opportunity to enter the labour market. If we are to achieve this, it is not tax cuts that are required, but we need to have enough resources in labour market policy and in welfare.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-17	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. However, we were left out of the problem of having more people working. That is how it is: we need to get more people to work more years. Only then will we have more resources for the common. Over the last two years, the employment rate has decreased slightly among older people, despite the fact that there is a boom and labour shortage in many sectors. This development must be broken. There may be various measures and changes that have led to fewer jobs among older people. For example, many senior agencies were set up when the RUT and ROT roofs were at the level it was previously. It can also record in this. The demographic looks like an hourglass, which the minister was on. Many children are born and given in the middle to support the broad, larger group of older ones found at the bottom of the hourglass. You don't have to have a lot of points in behavioral science to know that financial incentives are very governing for the individual. If you get more money in your wallet, you also want to work longer. That is why we have this measure in our budget. Recently, Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils published a debate article calling on the parliamentary parties to decide as soon as possible on an increase in the age limit for the pension, i.e. a decision on an extended working life. SKL notes that by 2050, a quarter of the population will be 65 years of age or older. When fewer people are going to support more people, just as it looks in the demographic images, we have to work longer. We have to work more years. Parliament needs to decide on a framework for an extended working life. SKL is now appealing to the parliamentary parties that we must put our foot down and make a decision to move up the retirement age level. It is also about the fact that the number of people over the age of 80 will increase significantly after 2020, as SKL describes in the debate article. The consequences for welfare activities are both declining tax bases and increased costs, while the skills supply problems are accentuated. Well-being services that we take for granted today that society can cope with are becoming increasingly difficult to maintain on the basis of both economic and human reasons, and we are already seeing this today. People in the welfare sector are lacking in various shortages. SKL therefore expresses great concern about how we are to cope with the declining tax base and the lack of skills. Pending decisions, it is essential that those who want and can work longer are given reasonable, stimulating conditions to do so. The retirement age inquiry showed the same things in 2013, and I think it is necessary that we arrive at a decision in this House as soon as possible on raising the retirement age and also on finding incentives for older people to want to work longer. It is also about having a better working environment. In the past, it was physically heavy work that made many people sick, but today it is stress-related mental illness. You can't work after retirement if you haven't had a good working environment during your working life. There is also a very interesting report that Mårten Palme produced in 2015 at IFAU, and it showed that public health and human health are so good that you could work much further up the age range.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-27	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp addresses very important issues in this interpellation and presents important facts on the table. It is important that there are opportunities for our older people to continue working well up in their ages. It is, just as Lotta Finstorp talks about and, as I myself believe, a lot about attitudes. Here, as politicians, we have a common responsibility to try to influence those attitudes so that you do not see people as older just because they have passed a certain age without seeing all the power and competence of the elderly in society. This will also become increasingly important as we have a higher proportion of older people in the population. We must be able to make use of the skills and all the strength of our older people both in working life and where we know that our older ones are also making fantastic contributions, for example in different forms of association life and as grandmothers and grandmothers and grandfathers who help families pick up at kindergartens. This is a resource that it is important that we see and take advantage of. At the same time, it is important, as Lotta Finstorp also says, that young people enter the labour market quickly so that they also have the opportunity to extend working life and that we improve the transition from school to working life so that our young people get in faster. We need to increase the number of hours worked in the economy, and then we need to work on all fronts. Another important group where we could raise the number of hours worked in the economy are people with immigrant backgrounds, i.e. people born outside Sweden, where the employment rate is lower. Not least among foreign-born women, there is a great potential to increase the number of hours worked and improve access to wealth resources in terms of both staff and tax revenues. So there is a lot to work with here. What is important for our elderly is also why they choose not to work. In the studies that I have read when you ask the elderly why they do not want to work, it is precisely their own perceived health that is the reason. Then, as I said earlier, you have to make sure to invest more in both health care and work environment work. If I read the Moderates' motion correctly, it is precisely the policy of working life that is being cut. Then, of course, I wonder, Lotta Finstorp: Do I read the exercise correctly, and why do the Moderates choose to cut in work life policy?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-33	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the government does not see financial incentives for the individual as a way of stimulating people to work longer. In addition, I can be concerned about the Välf honor investigation and its proposal on the profit ceiling that can make it probably, according to all the referrals that have come in, fewer welfare companies to choose from. People must be able to choose employers. This may make you able to work longer if you can transfer your skills to another employer. With the proposals of the welfare inquiry, there will not be so many left to choose from if I have a profession that is intended for welfare improvements and my skills could be useful there. If you look at the number of older people employed, you can see that it has increased by nearly 100,000 people since 2007 when the Alliance removed the special payroll tax. Financial incentives are needed both for the employer and, of course, for the worker. If we do not tackle this and make more people stay longer in work, further measures must be taken to stimulate those aged 65 and over to continue working. Hopefully, we will also soon be able to take a decision on moving the retirement age up. It must also be about anyone who wants to and anyone who can work on the basis of their health being able to work longer. It is easy to stand here and generalize and say that everyone should work longer, but it obviously looks very different when it comes to how you feel and how you have had it during your working life. In fact, however, I wonder whether the Minister for Finance believes that financial incentives for the individual are important for staying longer in the labour market.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-36	Mr President, I would like to Yes, financial incentives play a role, and there are also very strong financial incentives for older people to remain in work, not least through the pension system. Given that more older people are no longer working, there must also be other factors behind, such as their own health, in order for more people to be able to work longer. That is why we need to work on the possibilities of staying in a better working environment and through improved health care. That's exactly where the government is betting and exactly where the Moderates are cutting. It is interesting that we are standing here debating precisely that more older people should be able to work and that we must improve the working environment when the Moderates cut – I guess I have read the right – precisely in working life policy. For the government, it is important that everyone who can work also works. We have pursued an extremely active policy of getting more people into the labour market. And we see results. Since we came into government, 200 000 more people are in work. For us, it's important. And it's good that Lotta Finstorp brings it up. It is important that more older people are given the opportunity to remain in the labour market. Then we must work more with the work environment and with health care, but we must also work with attitudes. It is also important that young people enter the labour market more quickly. We work with the 90-day guarantee, so that no young people will have to start working in long-term unemployment. Active measures that lead to jobs and improve the transition from school to the labour market should be available. We must also exploit the potential of people born outside Sweden. They should enter the labour market, have their own livelihoods but also have the opportunity to contribute to society. I would like to thank you for a good interpellation debate.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-43	Mr President, I would like to Magnus Oscarsson has asked whether the Minister for Rural Development intends to take the initiative to change the terminology of the environmental code so that agriculture should not be classified as environmentally hazardous activities. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the question. I agree with Magnus Oscarsson's argument that agriculture is an indispensable part of the food supply in Sweden. Swedish food production must be both environmentally sustainable and competitive. The name of agriculture as an environmentally dangerous activity comes back on several issues and debates. The Parliament has stated on previous occasions that it does not necessarily mean that an activity is dangerous to human health or to the environment simply because it is defined as hazardous to the environment. If the environment is or may be affected in accordance with the definition, it is classified as hazardous to the environment. The fact that a phenomenon is covered by the concept of environmentally hazardous activities only states that the environmental code rules on environmentally hazardous activities are to be applied. A wide variety of activities in addition to agriculture and food production fall under the concept of environmentally hazardous activities, such as wind turbines and hospitals. Environmentally hazardous activities are a long-established legal definition within Swedish environmental legislation. I therefore do not intend to take the initiative to change the classification of agriculture as environmentally hazardous.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-48	Mr President, I would like to I asked the Minister for Rural Development if he was willing to take the initiative to change the terminology of the environmental code, so that agriculture should not be classified as environmentally dangerous activities. Why is that important? Well, before the summer Parliament in this very Chamber decided on a food strategy. The decision was important. We are now saying that we want to develop agriculture and not phase it out, as the policy has been for perhaps 30 years. In the food strategy, we are talking about increasing production, strengthening competitiveness through regulatory simplification for Sweden's farmers and increasing food self-sufficiency. It's important. But does it really mean anything, or is it just a lot of nice words? Many farmers with whom I have spoken react strongly to agriculture being classified as environmentally hazardous activities in the environmental code. The word environmentally dangerous has an extremely negative ring. Many think of toxic chemical products or weapons. When we had breakfast this morning, we may have had oatmeal, poured milk, had eggs, and had a ham sandwich. Everything was of course from Sweden. I wonder how many of us thought that those who have produced this are involved in environmentally hazardous activities. It falls on its own absurdity. I believe that if Parliament decides on a food strategy, it must have consequences also in the environmental code. As I understand it, the environmental code is a living document. We should also be clear that it was written in the years when the political view of agriculture in this House was that it should be phased out. But now it's a new time. Right, Minister?
i-F4aRdbkgquYYL3WXJfqgg7	Mr President, I would like to Government! Agriculture is classified as hazardous to the environment and is in the same category as mining, heavy chemical industry, forestry, oil industry, pharmaceutical industry, health care and so on. How the state denotes the activity and importance of agriculture is an important issue. Perhaps I was the first to raise this by means of motions and an interpellation with the Minister for Rural Affairs last year. The Center Party has also raised the issue. It is also highlighted by agricultural organisations. And it's good that Magnus Oscarsson is doing it now. The environmental code refers to agriculture as environmentally hazardous activities, as the Minister for the Environment says, as well as the industrial activities I mentioned, as well as sewage treatment plants, waste incineration plants and much more. Agriculture is fields and pastures, fresh air, biodiversity and cycles. For thousands of years agriculture has been using the land to produce food and energy in a renewable way through sun, water and air in photosynthesis. It is quite absurd to combine this vital activity with heavy, environmentally-friendly industry under the same designation in the environmental code. The signal value of how the state chooses to designate agriculture in different contexts is very important. And it is serious if schoolchildren and other citizens go around thinking that agriculture is not primarily a vital activity but an environmentally dangerous activity that the state must limit, and perhaps more in Sweden than in other countries. Then we would solve our environmental problems by importing food from countries that do not care for the land at all as well as we do in Sweden. It would be completely wrong. As I said, I discussed this with the Minister for Rural Affairs in the spring of 2016. He had a similar attitude to the Minister for the Environment, namely that agriculture is of great importance, but it is certainly dangerous for the environment and it should be labelled in the environmental code. Agriculture, of course, does not only have a positive but also a negative impact on the environment. And work on it should of course continue, regardless of the heading in the environmental code. But it would be useful if agriculture could be highlighted as its own heading in the environmental code, for example under the term 'life-necessary activity'. There is organic farming and ordinary farming. Everyone is, in my opinion, environmentally friendly, with slightly different pluses and minuses. The Minister could have made it easy for himself and angled what the Green Party used to do. It honors her that this did not happen. The whole of Swedish agriculture is needed and is a vital activity with many good environmental benefits and some environmental disadvantages that can vary between different cultivation concepts. What concerns me, as I said, is whether schoolchildren and other citizens get the wrong idea about agriculture, that something dangerous to the environment should be limited and so severely restricted to moving it abroad. Instead, we must highlight it, preferably through a new designation in the environmental code, but above all in all contexts when we discuss Swedish agriculture – in food strategies and when we look at our environment, our open landscape and a living Sweden across the country. I hope that the concept of life-saving activity is being highlighted more and more while the concept of environmentally hazardous activity is being toned down.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-64	Mr President, I would like to Minister! This is also an important issue for the Moderates. I'm grateful to Magnus for lifting it. Like Magnus, I wonder: Are we serious about food strategy? It gives the wrong signals when, in a more and more urbanised society, you talk about agriculture being an environmentally dangerous activity. I could reach out to the fact that it has an environmental impact, because it is. There are none that preserve biological diversity as well as Swedish farmers do today. They produce under some of the world's most harsh environmental and animal welfare rules, and they do so proudly and with a straight back. We are not giving any good signals by saying that agriculture is an environmentally dangerous activity, but it is environmentally friendly. Instead, when we raise taxes, we make up more rules and bureaucracy around production, they drive production out of the country. Then agriculture becomes environmentally dangerous, we know that. But in Sweden, environmentally friendly food is produced, organically and conventionally, and this is to be continued in the way you do. Swedish farmers live in harmony with nature and have done so throughout history for several thousand years, and they will continue to do so. But now you have to invite and say that it really is that they are doing something good. Then agriculture should not be burdened with our saying: what you are doing now is dangerous to the environment. No, it's environmental impact.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-68	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that I am delighted with the enthusiasm that is apparently present in this House for the food strategy. It was really time that we gathered around the important agricultural sector, about reversing the negative development and increasing food production in Sweden. This is important for many different reasons. It's important to our resilience. We're supposed to be a stable country that can withstand changes in the world around us. It is important for the whole of Sweden to live and for us to have a working business climate across the country. It is also important for environmental reasons. As everyone knows, in January the government submitted a proposal for a food strategy to the Riksdag. The overall objective of this strategy is a competitive food chain where total food production will increase. There we stand together. This strategy proposes a wide range of concrete measures to strengthen the whole food sector. With these measures we want to show that we stand side by side with those who produce food in Sweden. They should know that they are valuable, it cannot be said too often. There is this argument about a legal concept that is very well established in the environmental code and earlier, and it has spread in a wide range of laws and regulations. It may sound easy to change a concept, but do not reduce that process! I would like to call for a sanity in view of the work that it would involve taking on such a task, not least if we are to start to distinguish between different activities. It is argued that agriculture cannot be called environmentally hazardous activity, because it is important. Hospitals are there to support and care for, but there are risks associated with hospitals' activities. We must also agree that there are risks associated with agriculture and that it has an effect on the environment. This is regulated, among other things, in the environmental code. It will also be as a moment 22. Every time the legal concept is pronounced, it means that one has a negative view of agriculture, and then we establish the completely incorrect picture.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-74	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer! The Minister maintains that agriculture is an environmentally dangerous activity. I've looked up the synonym too dangerous. Among other things, it said that it is the same as threatening, ominous, fatal, harmful, unreliable and unhealthy. I wish the Minister for the Environment would accompany me on a visit to a farmer in Sweden, such as a dairy entrepreneur. When the entrepreneur is in the milk pit milking his cows, tell him or her: What you are doing in the pit is ominous, fatal, harmful and unhealthy. What does it mean that the Minister does not want to change the environmental code? Yes, I'll tell you. Many farmers bear witness to the view of some administrators who have just read in the environmental code that agriculture is an environmentally dangerous activity. Then there will be – as I talked about – suspicion and it is said that farmers are doing dangerous things. It seeps down so that officials are adversely affected. In fact, the focus is on looking wrong. We talked about signal value, that farmers believe that the food strategy is not worth anything unless we mean what is said and what is decided. Farmers are making great efforts for our country. They produce food, our country's food supply, which is crucial for us and our future. Farmers perform ecosystem services. Thanks to farmers, we have biodiversity in our country. So my question to the Minister is: are you saying that farmers involved in ecosystem services and biodiversity are involved in environmentally hazardous activities?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-80	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for the Environment, for your answer. This is an important debate. I am pleased with what the Government clearly said, that we agree that agricultural production should and must increase. I would like to add that it must increase sharply, because it has been crayfishing for decades. We shall stand side by side with the peasants because they are valuable. Thank you for those words. It is really important that we highlight this so that citizens, schoolchildren and others do not get the impression that farmers are less valuable and a burden on the environment and animal welfare. Sweden has one of the world's best farms and one of the world's best animal welfare. We have as little negative impact on the environment as possible, and we will ensure that. I agree with Magnus Oscarsson and John Widegren that it is a concern that agriculture in the environmental code is classified as environmentally hazardous activities together with the mining industry, heavy chemical industry, petro industry, forest industry and other things. We agree that we should work to reduce the negative environmental impacts of agriculture. But the very fact that the concept of environmentally dangerous is glued to agriculture is a concern. It is not just about the environmental code, but about how agriculture is addressed in the debate. I hope that the vital importance of agriculture will be highlighted more and more. This also applies to the importance of living rural areas, self-sufficiency and the production of food and energy. We should focus less on what is impacted on the environment and should be called that.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-84	Mr President, I would like to Minister! Thank you very much for your answer and for the debate. It is extremely important, and we shall continue to carry it as long as we talk about our food strategy. Therefore, I find it sad that you have the entrance that you cannot change the concept and that it gives the wrong signals to change it, when it really is exactly the opposite. It gives the right signal to change the concept. I return to the fact that it is when our food production is exported abroad that it becomes environmentally dangerous. But when you keep the production here in Sweden and benefit it, then it is environmentally friendly. We have an environmentally friendly Swedish agriculture. Mr President, I would like to If we are to succeed in getting more people into work and in bringing more tax money to the state, we can get this from agricultural production in rural areas. Then we shall give farmers the right rules of play and conditions so that every day they will gladly rise up to their animals and machines to carry out the hard work they have always done.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-87	Mr President, I would like to In February, we presented to the government our action plan for the implementation of the food strategy. By the summer, we had in principle taken all the measures in the action plan at a cost of just over SEK 300 million. In total, the government has allocated 1 billion for implementation. We will continue to work to increase Swedish food production. I am extremely pleased that we have Parliament's support for the fundamental thrust of this work. It is time to reverse the trend and increase Swedish food production, and in order to achieve this – we obviously agree – we need strong and proud farmers, as we have in Sweden today. It is also worth mentioning that it is an incredible pleasure to take note of the news that is now coming about that the agricultural sector has largely started to go much better. Profitability is increasing, more in some sectors than in others. We should not in any way relax, but not least for dairy and meat farmers profitability goes up. That's amazing news. But we should not expect this to continue on its own, but it is a signal to keep up and have a long-term job, so that there will be no transitory trend without a long-term development. It's incredibly important to our entire country. I am not so convinced that schoolchildren really read the Environmental Assessment Regulation very carefully, as it is put forward here in the debate. I guess I'd see advantages if that were the case. It is a very interesting regulation, but I would still like to express doubts in that part. In the general debate on food activities, the environmental code and its regulations have a very small part. I, too, as Minister for the Environment, can probably admit that this can be the case. This is not the most important aspect of the food strategy. It is of course incredibly important that environmental legislation is working and applied and that the advice that farmers should receive under the environmental code works well. Not least, it is important that the relationship between authorities and traders in all parts works well and is respectful. If it works in some other way, you should of course react forcefully. But that is not the bulk of the work to strengthen the food sector in Sweden. Nor is it the bulk of the general debate.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-92	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for the debate. We can see that the Minister does not want to change the environmental code, although it is a living document. We can also note that there are different approaches in different countries to the importance of food production. Just take the differences between the Nordic countries! In Finland, food production is about security of supply, national defence and security policy. In Norway, food production is used, among other things, to promote rural areas and to narrow the gap between town and country. In Denmark, food production is an obvious business opportunity. Home in Sweden, food production is an environmentally dangerous activity. As a Member of this Parliament, I have a great responsibility to speak well about Sweden's farmers and, in accordance with the food strategy, to take decisions that benefit our agriculture here in Sweden. My final question to the Minister is: Is the Minister prepared to take responsibility for taking decisions in accordance with the food strategy that benefit the entire agricultural sector in Sweden?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-95	Mr President, I would like to The government is working very intensively to implement the food strategy as it stands. I would like to respond to the assertion that there would be some link between what we agree on – the food strategy as negotiated and formulated – and any changes to the environmental code. There is simply no such part of the food strategy. It focuses on practical measures to increase food production. A number of authorities are involved, and we have greatly increased the funds available for that work. It has an effect, and I am proud and happy about it.
i-NPTJZnkmRDN5FaPCMAftZ5	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Isabella Lövin, Minister for Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll, Minister Anna Ekström and Minister Heléne Fritzon. The Government of Isabella Lövin answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-98	Madam President, I would like The climate threat is acute. It requires that the measures we take are effective and serious. We do not have time for symbolic issues, and we cannot afford symbolic politics. A real climate policy is needed. It is therefore regrettable that the government prioritises measures that lack real climate benefits. The e-bike market grew by 50 per cent between 2015 and 2016. It chooses the government to subsidize with SEK 350 million. The Economic Institute calls the subsidy difficult to justify. At the same time, they note that air taxes do not reduce emissions within the EU, and they believe that climate change risks entailing costly efforts that are likely to have been implemented anyway. Therefore, my question to the Minister for Climate Change is: is the government prepared to reconsider its efforts on the grounds of criticism so that we can have a climate policy that makes a real difference?
i-Qjyg41N7ja5MW9oAuxzyDj	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stenergard, for the question. Since the government took office, we have established a number of fundamental and completely transformative climate reforms. It is the climate law and targets of 100% renewable, and we are now doubling the environmental and climate budget for us to change here at home. There is plenty of research that shows that there are great opportunities to switch, for example, commuting from car traffic to bicycle commuting. One third of Stockholm commuters could reach their work within half an hour. An e-bike premium is an excellent way to speed up this transition, because we have to go down to zero. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has said that with the Moderates' previous policy we will not achieve the national targets. Now we have a chance to do it.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-104	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, emissions are increasing now. During the Alliance they decreased. We believe in a sustainable environment, but we also believe in sustainable finances. Therefore, we take responsibility and invest the money where it is most useful, to have a chance to achieve the climate goals that we have jointly set. It is climate policy for real. The question is rather: how does the government intend to achieve the climate goals?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-106	Madam President, I would like The truth is, the Moderates want to lower the fuel tax and remove the airline tax. The increased emissions referred to by Maria Malmer Stenergard concern international aviation and shipping. How are we going to reduce these emissions if we do nothing about the fact that aviation is now completely exempt from taxes? We are responsible for future generations. We need to reduce emissions, and we are not doing this through a brown tax exchange and by turning the flight into a tax advantage.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-108	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to Minister of Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll. Folktandsvården in several county councils has announced that it intends to raise the price from January 2018. With this, there will be a drastic increase for many patients. Let us remember that there are already many who refrain from dental visits for cost reasons. The price today for a regular survey is about SEK 1 000, but not for everyone. A person residing in the country without permission pays only 50 kronor for a visit. My question is: does the Minister think this is reasonable?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-111	Madam President, I would like Good dental health is an essential part of good health in general. We know that if you have poor dental health it affects several other functions in the body. Therefore, in the latest budget bill, the government has advanced with almost a doubling of the general dental allowance, for everyone – both younger and older as well as the groups in between. The Government also intends to set up a dental investigation to review how we can take steps to make dental health a greater and better part of health as a whole. I look forward to this investigation and what it will deliver.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-113	Madam President, I would like Despite long queues for dental care due to nursing and dental deficiencies, some county councils, including Västerbotten, offer complete dental care to people who stay here illegally. Does the Minister think it fair that citizens in this country have to pay thousands of crowns in dental care costs while those who are not allowed here pay 50 crowns for the exact same care?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-115	Madam President, I would like I think we can agree that dental health, as I said in my previous post, is extremely important to all of us, both younger people who are in the middle of life and older people, regardless of their background. Even if you come here and are in the country as a refugee, you should be able to get help if you have acute problems with your dental health. It is my view that there should be a reasonable relationship between the costs that Swedes otherwise have and what you possibly have to pay if you have a different background.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-118	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Isabella Lövin. Last year the market for electric bicycles grew by 50 percent. In two years, we've had a 125 percent increase-- that's fantastic. Right now, one out of every eight bikes sold is an electric bike. This is in parallel with the performance of many other countries that have advanced in the past. To then, as the government does, go in and randomly remove SEK 350 million per year in an e-bike premium to a market that is already growing dramatically becomes strange. My specific question to Isabella Lövin is: What climate benefit does this money give concretely?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-121	Madam President, I would like I thank Rickard Nordin for the question. As I said earlier, a third of the car commutes in Stockholm could cycle to work in less than half an hour. This only applies in Stockholm. With government policy, we want to promote cycling, walking, public transport and a transition to fossil-free cars. This is a step. We have a very ambitious climate target – we are going to reduce emissions by 70% in the transport sector by 2030. That is why we must make every effort we can. With a transition to electric bicycles, it becomes much easier for ordinary people, so that they feel that they dare and are able to take the bike to work. It also brings health benefits. This means that we will have much more space-efficient transport on our roads and may not have to invest in new roads. It is an extremely positive and economically effective measure.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-124	Madam President, I would like Taxpayers' money should be used effectively. The minister says people could take their bike to work. Will they? What studies has the government made on the effect of this premium? 350 million is a lot of money. The government spends SEK 300 million a year to reset all of Sweden's basic industries. It is a huge challenge that we have there. There are so many other places where this money can push a development and run a market that does not already exist, not least when it comes to fossil-free transport. Can I get a concrete answer: What climate benefit do we get? By how many tonnes will emissions be reduced? What calculations has the government made? Have any calculations been made at all, or are there loose assumptions as to what one might get?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-126	Madam President, I would like The fact is that the Center Party, which Rickard Nordin represents, fully wants to dismantle the environmental investments that we are now making and which are absolutely necessary because the situation is urgent when it comes to reducing emissions. We can make different assessments and slow down investments that are necessary because of different assumptions. But what we do know is that we need to get the dirtiest cars off our roads for health, emissions and particulate reasons.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-129	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to Minister for Sport Annika Strandhäll. In the spring, the Swedish Sports Federation decided that the inclusion of parasport is something to do if the economy so permits. We have highlighted this issue earlier with the Government and had the impression that we fully agree that this is not acceptable. Sport for people with disabilities is an explicit objective of this House and of the government, especially when it comes to children and young people. It's something that RF can't just ignore. I know that there has been a dialogue with RF on this issue, and I wonder how that dialogue went.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-134	Madam President, I would like I thank Bengt Eliasson for the question and the great interest in an issue that we both find incredibly important. I have met the leadership of the Swedish Sports Federation and the leadership of the Parasports Federation and discussed this issue carefully. I, on the part of the government, also with the support of the committee on this issue, have expressed the importance of speeding up the process of enabling more people with disabilities to benefit from all the benefits and opportunities offered by the sports movement. We will also continue that dialogue next week, both on this issue and on some other issues. But I can assure the honourable Member that this is an issue that the government will follow very carefully.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-137	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I would like to ask a supplementary question. Would the Government consider, in order to increase the pace of these elements in terms of inclusion of disabled people, to consider earmarking support for the parasports in the same way as it has in Norway, for example?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-139	Madam President, I would like I thank Bengt Eliasson for this. I think I have a good dialogue both with the Parasports Federation and with the National Sports Federation on this issue. They also have a dialogue among themselves, including on the wording that came into place and that I might also find quite unfortunate. I would like to follow how this develops before I consider taking further action.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-143	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll. This week we have been told via the media that two of Sweden's largest clinics for children with cancer have had to cancel operations and treatments. According to a survey from the Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation, one in four places is closed in childhood cancer care due to staff shortages. This is, of course, very worrying, especially in view of the fact that children and their families are involved in very vulnerable situations.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-147	Madam President, I would like I thank Lennart Axelsson for the question. I have also followed this report with great interest and feel very concerned. On a few occasions I have visited childhood cancer care, and few things are so emotionally charged. The picture that also emerged when, as part of the government's cancer initiative in 2016, we made a review of the skills supply in child cancer care is that we have a problem with staffing here as well as in other parts of the Swedish health care system. What the government has done so far is that we have invested heavily in increasing the number of places for specialist nurses who are now beginning to graduate. We have also earmarked money for nurses to be able to train on salary. I will also shortly invite the children who have wanted to share their experience with the Ministry of Social Affairs to continue their dialogue with them.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-151	Madam President, I would like I think it feels good that we are now in a position where we actually have the resources to make investments in areas of welfare where there is a need and that we have moved from the previous tax sink policy to actually being able to invest in what is important for the Swedish people. I look forward to us actually doing something about this situation. It is not good enough that we cannot offer the absolute best care to the children who have suffered this serious illness.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-153	Madam President, I would like I thank Lennart Axelsson for this. In addition to the investments that I listed, which the government has already made, we are making the biggest investments in Swedish health care in modern times next year when we provide an additional SEK 5.5 billion, of which a large proportion will go just to strengthen staffing. I expect that some of these resources will also be used to ensure a better quality in childhood cancer care.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-156	Madam President, I would like The carbon dioxide content of the atmosphere is still growing, despite the fact that global emissions have levelled out. We now have 410 ppm, but a reasonable level is actually 350 ppm. Municipalities around the country start working on negative emissions, but we would have to do this more. We are seeing disasters today with storms that move large water masses and so on in a completely unreasonable way where islands become uninhabitable, as we have recently seen. Not least, the methane drain from tundra is a problem that DN reported this summer. There are experiments with bait that prevent the melting of permafrost. Even the natural gas used from fossil stocks should be reviewed, and we would actually have to use only the gas that leaks naturally instead of picking up fossil gas from deep layers and using it in our transport sector. Does the Minister want to work in the EU to speed up such work?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-161	Madam President, I would like I thank Emma Wallrup for a very important issue. We see that climate change is happening here and now. It is not a question for the future, but we must make efforts at all levels. When it comes to capturing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere or to new technologies to use any leakages from soils and so on, it is something that is important to review at EU level. Sweden has the most ambitious goal in the world as we here in Parliament have said that we should be down to zero emissions in 2045 and then we should reduce negative emissions. This is a very ambitious objective. We are pushing at European level to remove allowances that make it too cheap to release. This will make it economically interesting to invest in new technologies that will give us better industries.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-163	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. These are important measures. At the same time, I think we need to review the strengthening mechanisms that are in place. Now nature lets itself out, out of its own pool, so to speak. We have to start dealing with that, and we are not there yet in the climate debate. We are doing the second part – our own emissions. The thunder needs to be handled in some way. There are Russian researchers who are doing research on this, but they are quite lonely. They use their own resources and have very little support. The EU would have to go in here, have talks with them and strengthen that research. I wonder if the minister wants to run it.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-165	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. The government has climate as one of its major priorities – jobs, school and climate. We need to look at all the sources of emissions that put the climate in a vicious spiral. This concerns the departures from soils and seabeds, and the latest research says that even rain forests today are in fact a source of CO2 emissions rather than a sink. This means that we need to look at all the measures we can take and follow the research very closely.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-166	Madam President, I would like We face several important challenges and problems in Swedish migration policy. One of the main problems is the fact that too many people who have been refused their asylum application, and therefore lack protection reasons and refugee status, still choose to remain in Sweden without the legal right to stay here. In just a few years, 50 000 are estimated to depart and go underground after being denied a residence permit. Unfortunately, we already see many signs of an extensive shadow society that is spreading in Sweden. In this situation, it would have been reasonable if the number of internal checks on foreigners, which therefore aim to find people in the shadow society, increased in line with the need. Instead, we are seeing a drastic reduction here, from about 40 000 controls in 2012 to only 20 000 controls last year. In what way are the government and the Minister for Migration working to ensure that the number of internal immigration controls is equal to the wide-ranging need?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-168	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Johan Forssell for the question. It is an extremely important and urgent issue, and the government is following it very closely. In fact, we can see a cautious increase in the controls that are crucial for us to have a well-functioning system. There are many fronts to work on the smooth functioning of return in the overall return programme.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-169	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It is good that the Minister follows the question very well. However, I am extremely concerned, I have to say, both for the halving that has taken place in just four years and for the fact that when I asked a question just recently to the representatives of the Minister for Migration, the answer was that the police today do not even have a working statistical report. It is not enough, therefore, that the number of checks has been halved – today no one can say whether they even take place or not, or at least to what extent they take place. Does the Minister really think this is reasonable?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-171	Madam President, I would like This can be measured in different ways. You can measure it in the number of internal controls, and you can measure it in the content and value of what it is actually achieved when you do the checks. I think both parameters are very important. In the first part, as I mentioned in my first speech, we see an increase. Even in the volume part, which I know Johan Forssell criticizes, we actually see a change in the positive direction. However, I am very grateful for the question. The government's work continues.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-173	Madam President, I would like Last week I was contacted by a father who on the same day had been given time to visit children's and youth psychiatry for his child after waiting for three years. They had waited three years without getting to the hospital. This is something we see in several different areas of Swedish healthcare today: It is a good care once you arrive, but far too many do not arrive. We can see that the number of county councils able to give a first visit to child and youth psychiatry within 30 days has fallen from 16 to only one in the last three years. My question to the Government is: now that the government sees the effects of its own decisions, is it prepared to reconsider the removal of the cue billions and of the reinforced health guarantee?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-175	Madam President, I would like I thank Emma Henriksson for the question. The healthcare system should of course be there when you need it. I am very concerned about the increasing mental illness both in society as a whole and not least among children and young people, as we have seen for a very long time– in fact since the late 90s. In this government, since we took office, we have increased the addition to psychiatry by almost two and a half times what the bourgeois government did. Nevertheless, we see an increase in queues, and we are prepared to do more. Among other things, we are making further investments next year. We are now also looking in the Government Office at whether there is anything else we can do when it comes to, for example, financial incentives or guarantees in different ways. At the same time, there is basically a staff problem, which we are also working on but which takes longer to turn around.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-178	Madam President, I would like This is an area where we need to make great efforts; that is something on which we fully agree. It was also something we in the Christian Democrats did when we were in the lead, and that is something we are pursuing with the increased efforts we make in our budget option in relation to the government's efforts. But money is not enough. It is not enough to say that this is important. What the government has done is to take measures that have exacerbated the problems. My question to the Government is therefore: do you see that you have created problems, and are you prepared to reconsider this?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-180	Madam President, I would like No, we in the government do not see that we have created problems. The government sees that we are now taking seriously a situation that you shot at in front of you, Emma Henriksson, using financial incentives instead of making the real investments needed in, for example, psychiatry. These include clear reinforcements of resources, improvements in pupil health and strengthening of youth receptions. As I said, it is also a question of increasing support for psychiatry. But we are also looking at whether we can do even more, because this is a major problem.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-182	Madam President, I would like I have a question of a general political nature that I would like to address to Isabella Lövin. It is widely known that during the refugee crisis in 2015, the government made the necessary decisions far too late. This led later to a review in the Constitutional Committee, which constantly defended itself by the fact that it was of course obliged to trust its authorities and to trust the Migration Board's forecasts. Those were the opportunities you had. Sometimes, however, one might ask whether this applies to everyone and whether it is a consistent line taken by the government. On October 10 this year, another authority, Konjunkturinstitutet, published its forecasts. So it was last week, and the agency wrote this: Therefore, a tightening of fiscal policies will be required as early as 2019 to achieve the surplus target. ..................................................... Since the government obviously chooses which authorities it trusts, I would like to ask the Minister what considerations are the basis for deciding which authorities to trust and which one does not trust.
i-WxjAVjVApVzCE4EFT1BSM	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jonas Millard, for the question! After all, we have a budgetary framework that the whole Parliament is behind, and we have objectives that are set. The government's assessment, which is also shared by the EU, the IMF and other outside actors, is that the Swedish economy is very good. When we formed a government in 2014, the budget deficit was 60 billion. For next year, a budget surplus of 80 billion is estimated – we spend 40 billion on welfare and spend 40 billion on paying off on public debt. This is something that is received with great respect and admiration by international judges. Of course, the government – and all governments – is responsible for the economic policy being pursued. I note that the economy has turned around since this government took office. We have also paid off on the public debt and continue to do so. The economy is strong – if there is no discussion.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-189	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. My question was about the reasons for making different assessments when choosing which authorities you trust. The government has a lot of different authorities with different missions. They are there to make various forecasts that the government will then be able to use. The Migration Agency makes forecasts so that you in the government can decide what type of migration policy you should conduct. The Institute of Economics is making forecasts to give you in government the basis for determining your economic policy. Why do you make different assessments when it comes to trusting different authorities?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-193	Madam President, I would like The Government has a responsibility to the Riksdag and to the voters. With regard to the assessment of the general economic forecast and the state of the policy pursued, there are, of course, inputs dealing with the policy that we see as effective. There are authorities that have different assessments, and we take them into our assessments.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-195	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Minister Lövin. It has been very gratifying to follow the increase in ambition in Swedish climate policy since this government took over. In its forecasts, the Environmental Protection Agency points to the fact that the gap left by the previous government in reducing emissions is now closing. At the same time, we know that we are facing serious challenges. Emissions from transport and industry in particular are very difficult to manage. As far as transport is concerned, it is above all foreign aviation that is on the increase, and it is important that the government proceed with a flight tax. In industry, it is above all the boom and the EU emissions trading that do not really work together – the boom is leading to emissions, and emissions trading is not ambitious enough.
i-LD78vH49TC13MVNEJe6csT	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lorentz Tovatt, for the question! Today, industry accounts for about one third of Sweden's emissions. These emissions are contained in the EU ETS. Reducing emissions within emissions trading systems is extremely important, and the government has been very active on this point. In the EU circle, we have driven what is known as the Swedish proposal, the Swedish proposal, to scrap up to three billion allowances that apply to industry. We have heard this proposal, and it is currently being negotiated with the European Parliament. This corresponds to 150 times Sweden's industrial emissions annually. We also have an investment in technology leaps in industry, Industrikliv, where we go in with money to support, for example, the steel industry and the cement industry in terms of new technologies to reduce emissions.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-204	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. We make technological leaps together, and I am glad that the government is on the ball on that issue. Has this been done in collaboration with industry? Has this initiative been received well by the industries that the Minister is talking about?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-207	Madam President, I would like The overall process industry – including steel, iron, cement and chemical-technological industries – has received this initiative in a very positive way. We are already working together – the Swedish Energy Agency works with Vattenfall, LKAB and SSAB for a new technology with which steel can be manufactured without coal. This could be a future export success for Sweden. We need to be at the forefront. We will export the solutions – not the emissions.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-210	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Knowledge Anna Ekström. In Sweden, we often boast of being tolerant and loving diversity. Unfortunately, this is not always the case in practice. According to the ECHR, pupils and parents have the right to choose the school that is consistent with their own family's beliefs. However, this is something that will not be possible in future if the Social Democrats are allowed to decide. There is also a Congress decision on this. Today, religious elements of teaching are forbidden, and that is how it should be. However, free schools in other activities may have secular elements. However, the Social Democrats want to remove this. I would like a clear answer from the Minister: is it the intention of the government to ban all the popular Christian schools that exist today?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-215	Madam President, I would like Question Time should, of course, be devoted to what is the policy of the government, not to the policy of an individual party. Nevertheless, I will gladly answer the question asked by Annika Eclund. The Social Democratic Party Congress decided to work for the school to be free from secular elements. The reason for this is in my own words. I think it is excellent if children in Sweden exercise a faith. I think it is nice that there are opportunities for children to do so. But I think this should be something that children do on their own terms. I do not think that the school should be an arena where children are expected to exercise faith or participate in various forms of secular elements. I think it is excellent if children want to do it themselves, but I do not want a school that expects a certain religious orientation or that tries to convince or persuade the children to choose such a direction.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-219	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. The Social Democrats are part of the government, so it is interesting to know. There are many anxious parents and school leaders out there who court me on this issue and wonder how they will be able to carry out their future activities. Some of them are watching this broadcast right now. I would like a clear answer from the Minister – an answer that clarifies what will be allowed to do at school in a secular school.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-222	Madam President, I would like The government is currently preparing directives for an investigation into this complex issue. Just as Annika Eclund says, the question involves a great many different reasons for concern. It is about how Sweden should live up to a convention on human rights. It is about the right of parents to raise their children and about children's right to their own religion. It is also about us having a school where children and students meet and meet, regardless of the background. This is the starting point for government policy.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-225	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Migration and is about the news presented today by Mr Ekott – that today the European Parliament's Committee on Civil Liberties has voted and adopted a new position on the Dublin Regulation in view of the forthcoming negotiations with the Council of Ministers and the Commission. As I understand it, this means a proposal for a mandatory redistribution of asylum seekers within the European Union. That is a position that I welcome in view of the continuation of the negotiations. This is happening in the shadow of a rather bleak debate in Europe with a lot of locks, so my thought is: What does the Minister know about the proposal, and how do you look at the message today from a Swedish perspective?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-228	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Fredrik Lundh Sammeli! I was as happy as you when I heard on the morning news that the committee in Parliament appeared to be moving towards a very broad decision on more solidarity between the Member States of Europe. I have had the pleasure of even during my short time already having had a meeting with our Swedish rapporteur Cecilia Wikström, who represents the Liberals. We had a very good conversation. She has been working on a modification of the Commission's proposal and in every way has done a fantastic job and has also represented the Swedish position. Now the work is moving on. It gives us a little bit of rye in our backs to take the Swedish negotiations forward in the Council of Ministers.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-231	Madam President, I would like We must be able to fight the causes of people being forced to flee. We need to help people in their neighbourhoods. We need to make the whole world take greater responsibility. We need a Europe that shares responsibility for meeting asylum seekers. I think that today's announcement is an important part of moving forward the positions of a well-functioning asylum system in which the Member States take joint responsibility. In what way can Sweden increase the pressure for countries to take their share of responsibility?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-233	Madam President, I would like I think we will have great pleasure in the adjustment and amendment that Cecilia Wikström has presented, that is to say, allowing some Member States to move a little slower. The requirement is maintained to share joint and responsible reception but provides a certain amount of time for implementation. I will take this with me to the next Council of Ministers, just as I take with me the Swedish position, which is well established here in the Swedish Parliament.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-235	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Strandhäll. Health care in Sweden must work and the patient and patient safety must be put first. Despite the fact that we have world-class care in many different ways, over 100,000 people are currently in care queues. For each fourth patient in need of surgery within specialist care, this means a waiting period of more than three months. It is an enormous suffering, anxiety, frustration, a long way back to active life and to the labour market. Not least, it is a decline in confidence that welfare functions as a result. The Moderates therefore invest SEK 3 billion per year from 2018 on a reinforced queue billion. I would like the Minister to describe what concrete new measures the Minister and the Government intend to take to remedy this very worrying situation.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-239	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. It is an issue that is very high on the government's agenda. When we entered autumn 2014 we were able to note that the queues had already started to increase, because it is not through financial incentives that you solve what is actually a staffing crisis in the Swedish health care system. That is why the government has instead chosen to invest in training more specialist nurses and midwives, and to ensure that nurses can receive study wages in order to continue their education. We will also expand medical training next year. And we are strengthening health care by 5.5 billion more, of which 3 billion will be precisely about reinforcements and opportunities to employ more staff, more hands in health care, so that care places can be kept open and the necessary operations carried out. That is the solution to the problems. The solution is not a cue billion.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-241	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I would like to remind the Minister for Social Affairs that during the Red-Green Government, care queues have more than doubled – this since the Red-Green Government removed the alliance government's very successful cue billion. It deserves to be pointed out that some of the biggest concerns we have in the Social Democratically ruled county councils. What analysis does the Government make of this development, which has escalated over the last three years?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-243	Madam President, I would like The analysis I do is that for eight years the bourgeois government consistently refrained from strengthening health care personnel and instead used economic incentives that led to displacement effects, as the Moderates themselves have acknowledged. In addition, the queues had already started to increase in 2014. We are now investing in increasing the staff for health care. Of course, this is not something that is turned over overnight, but it is the right solution for a stable healthcare system in the long term.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-246	Madam President, I would like As a result of the international boom and a decrease in the number of asylum seekers in Sweden, the aid budget will increase significantly next year, by SEK 8 billion, and is now up to SEK 43 billion. It is the biggest ever aid budget. In addition to being able to help more people around us with these funds, it gives us room to sharpen our international aid to become as innovative and effective as possible. My question goes to Minister for Development Isabella Lövin, who has announced that a large part of this 8 billion will land at various UN agencies. In an interview in Ekot, Lövin says: We give these organisations an opportunity to act quickly and be expert organisations, and they make the best assessments of where the needs are at their greatest. The fact that a significant part of Swedish aid is channelled through the UN is reasonable, but the government's latest information signals an unwillingness to build up the capacity of our own civil society organisations. Is it the policy of the Green Party and the government to strengthen the UN but not civil society?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-250	Madam President, I would like The simple answer to the question is no. We strengthen civil society through our bilateral strategies, and since the government took office we have also significantly increased support for the civil society organisations in Sweden that are channels for Swedish aid. I think Sofia Damm knows that the whole truth doesn't come out in a short part of Ekot. It is also easy to see how our budget is distributed when it comes to support for UN agencies and support for our bilateral strategies. The truth is also that we need a strong UN today. We also need to reform the UN. Through our funds there, we have a major impact on UN policy. This means that the priorities of gender equality, sustainability and conflict prevention have an impact. In this way, our aid funds will have a greater impact.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-253	Madam President, I would like The Green Party has historically, like us Christian Democrats, protected civil society and seen the power of what smaller organisations can achieve. Of course, this is not just about an eco- component. I have studied the budget carefully, and the allocation to civil society organisations is not actually increased. In the civil society movements we can really talk about the speed and expertise that Lövin ascribes to the UN. Why, then, does the specific appropriations for the CSOs not increase?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-255	Madam President, I would like We have increased the funds allocated to civil society organisations very substantially since we took office. Then a very large part of our bilateral strategies are channelled through civil society organisations on the ground in the various countries. The picture is that we divide aid into many different parts, but in fact a majority of what we do goes through civil society organisations or international UN bodies.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-257	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Strandhäll. In a recent ranking study from the University of Washington, Sweden comes fourth in terms of saving patients from dying prematurely in a long series of diagnoses. So we have world-class medical care. My question touches Lennart Axelsson's question about the cancer care for children in specifically two places, Sahlgrenska University Hospital and Nya Karolinska Hospital, where the cancer care for children has more or less failed. At Nya Karolinska only 14 out of 22 care places are open. The Government, together with the Left Party, has decided on higher state grants and on a major investment in staff reinforcement. What can you do as a minister to ensure that these very regions, which have obviously for a long time not taken up these issues, will act and do something more robust?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-262	Madam President, I would like I thank Karin Rågsjö. As you say, when it comes to a number of different diagnoses, we have world-class healthcare. But the situation we have in childhood cancer care is definitely not my satisfaction. We are right in that we invest in more specialist nurses and that we make clear additions to the healthcare system, both in the form of general state grants and targeted money to be spent on staffing. Next week I will start healthcare dialogues around Sweden with the various county councils and regional executives. This is, of course, an issue that is of the utmost importance and which I will bring to the fore with great interest in this dialogue. I will also shortly be inviting the Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation and children who have expressed their wish to meet me and who have their own experience of child cancer care for a continued dialogue on what the government can do more in this area.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-267	Madam President, I would like It's a real crisis. In Stockholm County Council there is not only a crisis in childhood cancer care, but 700 care places are closed. It's about staff. How can you in different ways get the regions involved in child cancer care, Västra Götaland region and Stockholm County Council, which are both partly alliance-led, to invest more in staff? Because it's something they haven't done in a long time.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-269	Madam President, I would like I thank Karin Rågsjö. I try in every way to be extremely clear that the reinforcements that the government is doing in health care should also go to staffing within, for example, cancer care and maternity care. I do not want to hear any excuses that you cannot employ with these funds, because that is exactly what they are intended for. If the staff get more colleagues, we can ensure that the care places are kept open in cancer care, resuscitation and health care in general.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-272	Madam President, I would like On the border between Burma/ Myanmar and Bangladesh, a human tragedy is now taking place. Over half a million people from the Rohingya people, the majority of them children and young people, flee ethnic cleansing and testify to barbaric abuse, rape and murder. You can't say anything but that it's hell on earth. The guilty must be held accountable, and lives urgently need to be saved. What is Sweden doing in the short term to solve the humanitarian crisis at the border? What are we doing to ensure that the rights of all citizens are respected in Burma/ Myanmar in the long term? What is Sweden doing to implement Kofi Annan's report on Rakhine Province? How do we support peace in all conflict areas in Burma/ Myanmar?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-274	Madam President, I would like I thank Olle Thorell for an important question. I visited Myanmar a year and a half ago. I also visited the Rakhinedel State and met with Rohingyer and saw with my own eyes how hugely vulnerable and discriminated against this ethnic group is. This is the fastest growing humanitarian disaster in the world. In two months, half a million Rohingyers have fled Burma/ Myanmar to Cambodia. Sweden has rapidly increased its humanitarian aid to both Burma/ Myanmar and Bangladesh to help Rohingyer. Unfortunately, the aid does not get through inside Burma/ Myanmar. We are now calling for humanitarian aid to be brought forward, for the UN to be able to bring in a fact-finding mission and for violence against civilians to cease immediately. The Swedish mission has been on a study trip and seen, limited, the extent of the disaster, burned-down villages and so on. We must see accountability and an end to violence.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-279	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I would like to give the Minister an opportunity to say something more about the whole democratic development of Burma/ Myanmar. The whole world had high expectations of Aung San Suu Kyi when she was released and came to power. But now we see all the shortcomings that exist, the fragility of democratic development and the still strong power of the military. Can the Government say anything about the strengthening of democracy in general?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-282	Madam President, I would like There were many of us who expected much of Aung San Suu Kyi, but we can see that the military's power is still strong. I have met her twice, and she is open to the Kofi Annan report that Olle Thorell mentioned. I believe that it is the key to giving us some human rights for the Rohingyans. But surely we would have expected stronger condemnation and action from a government that is moving towards democracy.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-284	Madam President, I would like Nobel Laureate Dario Fo wrote the play We don't pay, we don't pay! The Finnish Immigration Service seems to have the same attitude as regards the debts for the reception of unaccompanied minors as the Finnish Immigration Service has to Skåne municipalities.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-286	Madam President, I would like I thank Boriana Åberg for the question. The short, concrete answer is: No, the Government does not think that the Scanian municipalities should do that. The question is about the petitions that all municipalities in the country have to the Finnish Immigration Service for the costs that they have had and have in connection with the reception. There is a good dialogue between the authorities and Sweden's municipalities, and it is a clear promise from the Migration Agency that you should have a quick handling of the payments of the compensations. There is a plan for this, and the government has facilitated the budget by providing the conditions for the Migration Agency to pay it out so that it can agree on what the request is about and what the level of compensation should be.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-289	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Not all debts are from 2017, but some are from 2015 and 2016. The Migration Agency owes Kävlinge 60 million, Vellinge 98 million, Lund 94 million, Trelleborg 65 million and so on. My brief question is: When is the money coming?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-291	Madam President, I would like One consequence of the high level of reception is that there are still back-to-back requests. We have asked the Authority the question and received a clear message: the ambition is for payments to be completed this year. However, there is also a negotiation of the levels of compensation that the municipalities are making a request for, and that is something that the municipalities are very aware of. My answer is very specific: the ambition is for payments to be made before the end of the year.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-294	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Social Affairs Strandhäll. The high level of sick leave in the country is both a socio-economic issue and a gender equality issue. It is a gender equality issue because women are on sick leave to a much higher and larger extent than men. As the government repeatedly points out that it is the world's first feminist government, I wonder what concrete measures it intends to take to reduce the gender gap that exists in the sickness rate.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-297	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Bonnier, for this angle on an important issue! It is gratifying for the government to see that we have managed to reverse the illness and that they are now going down. This means that fewer people need to get sick and that more people have come back to both health and work. Even though sickness rates have declined and we now see a stable and better development, we still have, as we have had for several decades, a fairly large difference between men's and women's sickness rates. Two out of three people on sick leave are women. It has to do both with the workplaces that women work at and with the private life situation that women often have in the middle of life, not least when they form a family. It is also when we see that you are on sick leave. The government does several things in this area. We have presented a broad package of measures dealing both with health and safety measures and with providing support and assistance so that you can get back to health and work more quickly.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-300	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs Strandhäll! We are hearing here about a lot of measures that you have taken, and some of them are, of course, good. But obviously they are not enough because we still see this difference in absenteeism.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-302	Madam President, I would like It is not the case, Helena Bonnier, that these measures are taken in health insurance. It's not about throwing more women out of health insurance. Instead, it is about the ongoing work of the government in achieving a more equal labour market, for example by reviewing and having introduced opportunities for wage mapping again. It is also about more systematic work in those places where the most women work, such as a more systematic work with the psychosocial working environment. It is often much worse in women's workplaces than in men's.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-305	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anna Ekström. A good school has skilled teachers with good opportunities to do their job. They need to plan, implement and follow up their teaching. It has turned out that Swedish teachers spend more time than teachers in other countries copying paper and moving furniture. At the same time, we know that the time spent together by students and teachers is crucial to strengthening students' knowledge. A recent study by the Teacher Association shows that teachers are experiencing a dramatic increase in workload. More than eight out of ten teachers feel that the amount of administrative tasks has increased significantly. 59 percent say it has increased sharply, and 27 percent say it has increased slightly. Progress is going the wrong way. That is why I would like to ask my question. The Social Democrats had intended to reduce the administrative burden when they went to elections in 2014. Now it's increasing. What are you going to do?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-309	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. Perhaps the school's most important activity is teaching. It is in teaching that students and teachers meet, and it is in teaching that the student gets more knowledge, learns to take responsibility for his or her own learning and can also be challenged to go further than he or she had thought possible. For this, education must be at the centre of school work. The school should have knowledge and education in focus. Therefore, teachers' ability to prepare for teaching and the implementation of teaching, but also afterwork from teaching, is crucial. We have taken several steps to ensure that teachers can focus on teaching. I would like to mention briefly here the investment in teaching assistants that we are doing together with the teachers' organisations and the digitisation of national tests that we are finally starting with now after eight years of nothing on the bourgeois side. I would also like to mention the digitisation strategy adopted by the government today.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-312	Madam President, I would like The statistics speak clearly. The administration is going the wrong way. It's getting more and more for the teachers to administer. The Government has had a number of years with its government to make changes, but they seem to have failed.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-314	Madam President, I would like The best survey we have in terms of teachers' use of their working time is a major survey that the Swedish National Agency for Education has done. It is interesting to compare with the international survey Talis. We fully agree that it is a major problem in the Swedish school that too much time is spent on administration. Of course, there are no shortcuts, but here we need to make sure that the teachers' time is protected. The measures I mentioned in my previous reply, I believe, will have a good effect on achieving the right results.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-317	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Climate Change Isabella Lövin. Climate policy is very much international solidarity. But it is also development and investment. Sweden spends large amounts of money on international climate investments, including in the UN's Green Climate Fund. But my question is: what is Sweden doing to ensure that other major investments are also made greener? I am thinking of the billions that the World Bank and other development banks, for example, put into the world's energy system. Can Sweden influence there in some way and make sure that they go to more renewable and less fossil – more renewable and less coal and oil? That's my question.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-320	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Matilda Ernkrans, for a very important question! Sweden as a major donor to, for example, the World Bank, but also the other development banks, African and Asian, are systematically pushing us to phase out all new investments in fossil energy. Development banks are there to help the poorest countries get out of poverty. Today, 1.3 billion people on earth are without access to electricity at all. We are running this successfully. For example, we, together with Finland and our like-minded people in the World Bank constituency, have achieved a significantly higher level of ambition in terms of investments in renewable energy sources and have removed new investments in coal and oil from the World Bank. Here we can make a huge difference when it comes to emissions globally.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-323	Madam President, I would like Congratulations on the new position! I have a question for Minister Ekström. The school is the way into Swedish society. No matter your circumstances and no matter where you come from, everyone should be able to trust that you can go to a school that will give as good a start in life as it is ever possible. We know that the single most important thing for students' knowledge is that they have a lot of time with a skilled teacher. It is therefore alarming to see that Sweden, compared to other OECD countries, has significantly less teaching time. Swedish school students thus have almost a whole year less teaching time compared to other countries. The Moderates have therefore proposed that we continue to increase the teaching time as the Alliance did and also investigate the possibility of shortening summer holidays and introducing a three-term system.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-328	Madam President, I would like I should also like to congratulate Erik Bengtzboe on his new position. I am the most important person to sign that teaching is the most important thing in school. I would also be at the forefront of introducing more teaching hours if we in Sweden had access to the teaching power needed for us to have more teaching hours. There are great needs, and the opportunity for students to learn more together with their teachers depends entirely on us being able to cope with the great shortage of teachers. We are now strengthening teacher training throughout the country. We work to try to make the teaching profession more attractive and that teachers have the opportunity to focus on what is at the heart of the job. I also spoke about this in connection with the previous question. We are increasing supplementary education and we are trying to find new ways into the teaching profession. When we have more teachers in place, we will also have more teaching.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-332	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Sport Strandhäll. Today we have a feminist government. We work a lot on gender equality. There's a campaign going on, Me Too, where we see how women are affected in different ways. The issue is also topical as Denmark's women's football team is on strike, and this has a gender perspective. It's a gender equality issue. I would like to ask the Minister for Sport how she views equality in sport and that women are sometimes affected by worse times and are generally vulnerable in sport. I wonder how the Minister for Sport is working on this.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-334	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Agneta Gille. First of all, it is of course the case that levels of compensation are something that sport itself has to decide on. I'm very disappointed not to see the game tomorrow. Having said that, we can also note that sport in Sweden is also not equal. Far from it. We see the same structures in sport as we see elsewhere in society. Although much has happened, we can see that there is indeed a long way to go here. For a feminist government, it is obvious that we should push for greater equality in this area too. I therefore welcome the decision of the National Sports Board from autumn 2016 that they will now speed up their continued work on gender equality in sport. New gender equality policy objectives were set in the spring, and they will quota their boards in the special sports federations. These are steps in the right direction, but of course we shall continue to be on.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-338	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Strandhäll. The most ill elderly are the group at risk of the worst care in Sweden. They often go in and out and ball between different places when they are at their weakest, and that is unacceptable. Multisick elderly people are a growing group of patients with a high need for care. They account for more than half of all medical visits to the emergency wards and half of the total medical costs. The number of care places has decreased by more than half, while the need for care has increased. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs, Mrs Strandhäll, whether she believes that care for these elderly people is properly organised.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-340	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Katarina Brännström, for an excellent question in a very important area! My answer is: No, I am not satisfied with what it looks like in Swedish healthcare today. We do not have a health care system today that is organised on the basis that ill health looks like it does. 80 – 85 percent of all resources in the entire healthcare system go to a patient with at least one chronic disease. Not least, as I said, it is not adapted to the needs of multisick elderly people. The work initiated by the Alliance Government with Göran Stiernstedt and Effective Care has now been taken forward by the Government through its primary care investigator Anna Nergård. It is about changing the Swedish healthcare system and adapting it to become a more close care for those who most need it and to specialize in the most advanced care that you need to get times in life. It is a work that we will have to push forward, and I hope that you will also support it.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-343	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll. I have spoken about this in the past, and we have a satisfied government and Minister who cannot see that healthcare cannot be given in time in the right place and that the quality is very different. We heard earlier that the government has not created any problems in health care at all. My question concerns the national list of medicines. There is an announcement about this. When will the government move from words to actions and present a national list of medicines to the Riksdag? This is an enormous priority. If you look at the proposals contained in the budget proposal, it does not look like anything will happen until 2021.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-345	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jenny Petersson, for the question! With regard to the national list of medicines, the government is writing a bill, and we intend to present it to Parliament this spring. Only today, the government also decided on an in-depth pre-study and a mission to the E-Health Agency to make clear what is required in terms of technical solutions to get a national list of medicines in place. I think that Jenny Petersson and I can agree that this is an enormous priority, and it is one of the most important measures that we can implement in the short term in order to actually strengthen patient safety. That is why I am very pleased that we are now moving forward the positions in an area that has been very complicated in terms of law and technology and that we can now see that within a few years we will be able to deliver a national list of medicines that will also make health professionals happy.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-348	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Anna Ekström. The government has since the entry invested in a new knowledge boost for Sweden. Through this we give people a chance to switch to a new job or find a new way in life, but it also gives them more knowledge and opportunities to reach out and participate in society. More education is good for democracy. Formal learning efforts are welcome, but my question here today concerns the role of adult education and, in particular, the study associations in the field of asylum seekers and foreign-born women. These are groups that need to shorten the way into society and to give tools to language, networks and social orientation, but also to increase empowerment. The question is: How does the government view the study associations' continued work on working with asylum seekers and new arrivals, and what does the Government think the government's effort that comes with the budget to reach foreign-born women will mean?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-351	Madam President, I would like We sometimes discuss what is the meaning of school and what is the meaning of education. We usually agree that education should prepare for working life so that you can take a job. It will prepare for further studies so that you can continue to study. But it is at least as important that education also prepares for a life as an active citizen of society who takes responsibility for our democracy. This issue is perhaps even more important today when the discussion is filled with concepts such as fake news and so on. The budget that the government has put on Parliament's table is a public education budget. It is the biggest investment in peoples' education that has been made since the turn of the millennium. It means a substantial increase in funding for the study associations, which are located in every municipality throughout Sweden and which have so far taken a huge responsibility for our new arrivals who came here, not least in 2015. The study associations are now given the chance to continue to do this, but they are also given the opportunity to extend their efforts to try to reach foreign-born women. It is an initiative that will be needed for them and for Sweden.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-354	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister of Social Affairs. It is also about the unacceptably long queues for child and youth psychiatry. Bris drew attention to this last week, and there is only one county council in Sweden that reaches the guarantee. Until 2014, county councils that passed the reinforced health care guarantee received a performance-based state grant. Looks like it made a difference. The rapid deterioration of the results may be due to the lack of these financial incentives in the enhanced health guarantee. It is of the utmost importance that the health guarantee for children and young people in psychiatry is developed. We cannot have it this way in a country like Sweden. It is not good enough for young people with dark thoughts, who may ponder over taking their lives, to wait months for an initial assessment. In addition, Bris points out that the UN Committee on Children's Rights has repeatedly criticised Sweden for this. What does the Minister of Social Affairs do?
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-357	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Lotta Finstorp! As I said in my last speech, I am also very concerned about this. The mental illness among our young people is one of our really big challenges. That is also why the government has tried to invest in several different parts of this. It is about early intervention, expanding pupil health and creating more opportunities for early contact with youth clinics. I am convinced that we need to do even more and perhaps strengthen even more. Again, it is really before these young people end up in the queue to BUP that we need to catch them up. I have also taken note of this and am concerned. As I said, we have strengthened the economy and strengthened training places. But I am also fully prepared to look at further solutions to shorten the queues to BUP. But we should not think that a performance-based remuneration is the solution to the problem.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-361	Madam President, I would like I address my question to Minister Anna Ekström. Safe students and students in the classroom are prerequisites for students to learn properly. Today there are messy and loud noise levels in far too many classrooms. And many students and unfortunately also teachers feel that they are subjected to abuse and harassment at school. We Moderates have put forward a proposal for more leadership training in teacher training. It is necessary to create order and study in a classroom. The government has said no to our proposal. There is also an announcement from the Riksdag about the order reviews. It can be a way of paying attention to parents and students if behavior is not good enough. Now there's a year left before the election. I wonder what proposals the government has for concrete measures to create security and study in the classroom.
i-610f6d507d02ce1c-366	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus and I fully agree that order and security and study are crucial for students to achieve good results in school. A well - known school researcher once said that it is difficult to teach, but learning is even more difficult. Those students who work hard at school deserve an environment where they can develop well. The issue relating to teacher training falls under the remit of my colleague, Helene Hellmark Knutsson, as Maria Stockhaus is well aware. As far as I know, Mr Fridolin's area includes the question of order reviews, which is included in Parliament's announcement. I can only assure Maria Stockhaus, on behalf of the government, that we take the issue of order and security and study very seriously. For example, we spend a great deal of resources on national school development programmes to ensure that those who work in school receive good education and skills development in terms of rights and opportunities to create security and studyo.
