i-7bc48bb7f0993643-16	Mrs. Old President! Mr Widman has asked me what measures I am prepared to take to ensure the long-term development of the Home Guard, with the development of the national protection forces. The Home Guard battalions, with their high availability, number and geographical distribution, are of central importance for the defence of the Swedish territory. During the current defense decision-making period, the capacity of Home Guard units is enhanced by the addition of four mortar platoons and battalion command capability. The Swedish Armed Forces are responsible for the development of the Home Guard with the national protection forces, and I see no reason at present to take any action regarding the Armed Forces' closer organisation. However, I would like to emphasise that I am closely following developments in the organisation and future conditions of the Home Guard. The Home Guard with the national protection forces is an important part of Sweden's defence and is represented throughout the country.
i-7bc48bb7f0993643-19	Mrs. Old President! I thank the Secretary of Defense for the answer to my interpellation. Today is the 29th of May, and it is the day when we in Sweden pay tribute to our veterans – men and women – who, on behalf of the state and parliament, have put their own security at risk for the sake of others within the framework of international efforts. I would also like to thank the Minister for Defence for the fact that last week the Government decided to make 29 May a general flag day. That proposal was made by an investigation almost four years ago. It is therefore not a day too early for the reform to come. And there are veterans even in the Home Guard, Mrs. Old President. I fully share the defence minister's view of the central importance of the Home Guard and the national security forces for our military defence. Today, they make up about 40% of the entire war organization and are by far greater than the army forces, the naval forces and the air forces. Previously, the Home Guard – and the Home Guard Commander at the headquarters on Lidingövägen 24 – have been side-ordered with the other forces of combat: army, naval and air. After an internal investigation at the agency, it has now been decided that the Home Guard will in the future be subordinated to the chiefs of combat forces. This means that the way for the Home Guard to the defense's leadership and commander-in-chief is now considerably longer than it has been in the past. Mrs. Old President! I do not imagine that there will be any major problems in the short term. But it is no secret that we have problems with our defence economy. Priorities will also have to be made during this defence decision-making period. That is clearly announced by the Supreme Court. It is with the setting of priorities, Madam President, that I am concerned that the Home Guard is no longer as visible in the Swedish Armed Forces' management structure. The Secretary of Defense says he intends to follow developments very closely. Does the Minister of Defence also intend to intervene if the Home Guard does not gain greater visibility and if it becomes the case that the Home Guard risks being down-priorityd in the Authority?
i-7bc48bb7f0993643-24	Mrs. Old President! On May 29, 1940, the decision was made to establish the Home Guard. So that's 77 years ago. It may be worth noting a day like this; later today we are also celebrating veteran day. The role of the Home Guard and the National Protection Force must be clarified. It must not be weakened in any way. I have indicated that I follow the Swedish Armed Forces' Management investigation very closely. It is ultimately about the conditions to be created in connection with increased preparedness and war and about us being able to handle such situations in a better way. We have 22,000 soldiers in this organisation, and today we have a good recruitment. Much of the basis for this recruitment is based on former conscription graduates. I believe that reactivation of duty is important in order to cope with future recruitment to the Home Guard and the National Guard. We must ensure long-term staffing, and it is necessary to increase the number of people undergoing basic training. If we look at the operation today, we can conclude that we have 40 Home Guard battalions who have conducted war unit exercises. We have had special exercises on 86 occasions. It has been about such things as the protection of airba areas and marineba areas. For example, the Geltic Bear leadership exercise with 20 Home Guard units and 700 participants has been conducted. We have had a central management training with 700 participants. We've established a mortar platoon. We now have a war-placed one. I told you earlier that four will be established during the period we are now in. We have had international exchanges with Norway, Denmark, Estonia, Latvia and to a limited extent with Finland. Our Home Guard units have practiced in Norway and Denmark. Support to society in the last year was 33 000 hours. Right now Arctic Challenge Exercise is being implemented. In connection with it, a training war exercise is conducted at Kallax, where you have protective guard service and support the guard organisation in connection with the Arctic Challenge Exercise. These are some examples of activities and what you do. It is very important that measures are not taken to reduce the clarity of the organisation and activities of the Home Guard National Protection Force and that its position is not weakened. I assume that the Armed Forces share that view. With regard to the management inquiry that is being carried out, I have said that I am following it closely. I have also indicated that at present I am not prepared to take any action. We will see how the preparation process in this context continues. I know that in Parliament there is a broad commitment to the national security force of the Home Guard. In the party I represent, there is a broad commitment to that part of the Swedish Armed Forces. It is also a very important people-minding part of the Swedish Armed Forces. There are some that are represented throughout the country. What it has to deal with is protection, surveillance, surface monitoring and supporting society in crisis. These are important tasks that have become increasingly topical. I think Mr Widman's interpellation in this case is, in its fundamental sense, interesting and justified. Here it is important to find ways to develop the business in a positive sense in different ways.
i-7bc48bb7f0993643-36	Mrs. Old President! I would like to return the kindness that the Minister of Defence just sent through this House that the interpellation was relevant. I think it is relevant, and I think that the Minister for Defence better than most people understands the importance of the Home Guard, which is an extremely well-functioning organisation, being able to retain its place and its space in the future structure of the Authority. It has sometimes happened that I have complained to the Minister for Defence because he gives too vague, on the verge of no, answers to my interpellations. I shall say today that I am pleased with the statement made by the Minister for Defence when he clearly states that it is clear that we must clarify the Home Guard in the Swedish Armed Forces authority. That sounds good and soothing to me. Mrs. Old President! I can agree with everything the Minister for Defence says about the Home Guard and its advantages and value for the Swedish defence, for people's attachment, for geographical proximity and for operational capability. The Home Guard has shown the way for the rest of the armed forces in a number of different respects. For example, they were the first on the track to revive the so-called war unit exercises. This was something that has now been developed in the Swedish Armed Forces and the rest of the war organization. I am also pleased that the Home Guard has the opportunity for international contacts of various kinds. Now the Minister for Defence tells us that it has had exchanges with both Finland, Denmark and Norway. It would be very good if that cooperation for the Home Guard could also be broadened across the Atlantic and that the Home Guard found the opportunity to join the US National Guards State Partnership Program. Sweden is one of the few countries in Europe that do not participate in this cooperation. Once again, thank you for the clear answer. I can promise the Minister of Defence that I will follow this issue very closely in the future.
i-7bc48bb7f0993643-41	Ma'am, the esident! If one is to say something about what Mr Widman calls vagueness in other debates, it has been about what I have felt has approached ministerial rule and possible subsequent handling in the Constitutional Committee. That is what has been the background in these contexts. But that is not what it is about today. In the fundamental views on the role of the Home Guard's national protection force, we seem to be right in agreement. Then I do not go into the details of the organisation issue internally within the Swedish Armed Forces at this time. We seem to have the same picture that we should follow it closely. We have used the same wording here. I guess that's what we're gonna have to do. I can only say that this part of the Swedish Armed Forces is extremely important to develop. I very much hope that now that the military service system is back on track from 1 January 2018, it may mean that we will have an additional strong platform that will ensure future recruitment and staff provision for the Home Guard's national security force and thus make a good organisation even better. I myself have felt a concern when we had only the professional defence that one could not have the strength to cope with the recruitment that was necessary. But now we have taken steps to open up opportunities for the future. I am pleased that we seem to be broadly in agreement on this. Now we'll follow the question, and this afternoon we'll celebrate veteran's day.
i-7bc48bb7f0993643-45	Mrs. Old President! Jan R Andersson has asked me what measures I am prepared to take to reinforce the possibility for MSB to deal with natural disasters caused by water scarcity and droughts and what measures I am prepared to take in the near future to help those areas that are at risk of drought this summer. MSB's task is to develop and support society's ability to prevent and manage accidents and crises. During the summer, MSB has a readiness to deal with everything from providing support in case of seasonal natural events, such as forest fires, to accidents and crises. As regards the issue of water scarcity and drought, MSB follows this in the context of its international monitoring. Every week, MSB holds collaboration conferences with relevant actors in society's crisis preparedness. If necessary, the issue of low groundwater levels and also low surface water flow are addressed in this forum. A fundamental principle of emergency preparedness is the principle of responsibility, which means that the person responsible for an operation under normal conditions should also be responsible for it in crisis situations. The principle of responsibility also means a responsibility for each actor to interact with others. This also applies to those responsible for the supply of water to society. MSB follows the work of the responsible authorities and the consequences that may arise and may in an emergency be a coordinating party for, among other things, networks that can be used by responsible actors. If regional resources are exhausted, MSB can support the county with reinforcement resources such as personnel or equipment and by brokering resources from other actors. The Government is closely following developments and has a close dialogue with the responsible authorities.
i-7bc48bb7f0993643-48	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. These issues are perhaps a little complicated and may not usually be matters of defence policy or of the Minister for the Interior, but, after all, they are on both our table. The foundation, as the Government says, is a municipal responsibility. However, there is, of course, a discussion on the subject that may be relevant. What is the limit to the responsibility of municipalities? Of course, a municipality itself must stand up for what it has done. If it has itself caused a drought, it must of course be able to provide it. Similarly, if there is something you could predict and know will happen, you should be prepared for it. In the case of drought, it is not possible to say that the municipalities have caused the drought or that one might prefer to be prepared for such events. For example, Mörbylånga, which is a small municipality of 15,000 people, suffered quite a drought last year and had a cost of 130 – 140 million. It is clear that this cost is exceptionally high for a small municipality. I have tried to translate it into a Mälardal perspective and landed on somewhere around 13 billion. When you come up in such proportions, the question changes character a little. It is possible that we will get that character of the question this summer, because the signals that have come about water scarcity not only concern certain parts but large parts of Sweden and parts of Sweden that have a large population. It also affects not only the groundwater level, but also, as the Government mentions, watercourses and lakes that will have reduced levels, which also makes it difficult to get drinking water. It may also be difficult for entrepreneurs such as farmers to use water to drive their industries. A little bit, as the Minister has previously stated, the principle of responsibility applies, and that is why, for example, Mr Mörbylånga blames herself. It is a very high price for a small municipality. One could hold the fundamental discussion about where the limits of the principle of responsibility are. There are other parts of society where society actually intervenes when major events occur and thus contributes in a different way. There is another important question of principle, and that is that the government supports measures that are characterised as climate change, but it only does so when it comes to more water and not when it comes to less water. It also makes the issue particularly sensitive in the sense that one could receive subsidies or compensation for one effect of climate change but not for the other. For a government that has Sweden's first climate minister ever, it might feel a little strange that, now that the effects of climate change are beginning to appear in many of our municipalities, the hat is empty and has nothing to give. I'm sure a lot of people find that very problematic. I would like to address a question to the Government, and it is about how many county boards have so far reported that they may have problems with drought and water scarcity. I also wonder what population is involved, because I think that is interesting in the wider debate. I have one more question. Has the government looked at this at all that it is possible to get compensation for preventing climate change that is about increased rain but not when it comes to reduced rain and drought?
i-7bc48bb7f0993643-56	Mrs. Old President! Let me just say at first, even if it is a bad analogy in this case, that the principle of responsibility applies not only to sunny days but also to the rainy days. When you are responsible for a business, you are obliged to plan even for the difficult situations. Drought, as opposed to, for example, fire or landslides, is something that occurs with natural variations and which we know in advance will occur. It is therefore important that those responsible for the supply of drinking water also plan for drought and the possibility of providing water to citizens in the municipality under these conditions. When it comes to climate impact, it is surely uncertain how strong the link between last year's drought and the climate effects is. The research will have to answer that question. On the other hand, the Climate and Vulnerability Study presents its report well today, and then I and Jan R Andersson can take note of it and see what further conclusions can be drawn. The most important political, national conclusion, of course, is that water is a basic societal resource and that long-term water management is required for us to have safe access to water. The main responsibility for this lies with our municipalities, and then they must also assume their responsibilities. It is not possible to escape the responsibility of being a small municipality, a medium-sized municipality or a large municipality and therefore it would not be able to meet the responsibilities of a municipality. What is ultimately said, then, is that a municipality of this size is not able to meet the municipal commitment. One could imagine that a municipality did the same with the school commitment or some other commitment: We are too small a municipality to meet the school commitment. Then the answer is that you are not actually able to be a municipality, because this is a fundamental commitment. I do not know the exact figure of how many county boards have reported in today, but I can return to Jan R Andersson with it. There are a number of county boards, and there are more than there were last year. I know that my colleague Karolina Skog has met with the county boards and reviewed the situation with them in terms of longer-term management. I am responsible for crisis preparedness operations in Sweden.
i-7bc48bb7f0993643-60	Mrs. Old President! It was not my intention to say that small municipalities cannot do this, but it is clear that it can have very large implications for a small municipality in a special climate. But the question that is interesting and that the Government did not choose to address is how far the principle of responsibility can be drawn. When will a problem become an accident, and when will a state go in with resources to actually be able to help? It is perhaps too complicated a question to touch on a speaker's chair, but it is still an important part of it, I think, to make sure to think about it. An accident is characterized by rapid events, and a drought is perhaps, on the contrary, a slow event, but still the same effects for a municipality that is affected. Now we see situations where a large part of the country, including the metropolitan regions, southern Norrland, the whole of eastern Sweden and also parts that have very large water resources, may suffer from drought. Then it is clear that it is interesting to hear if the government has taken any action, if you have any policy or if you have updated yourself on the matter. The answer is no, and I find that problematic. I think, for example, that one could look at what MSB, the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, could do. There are also other authorities working on these issues, but I think the government has acted passively. As the principle of responsibility says, a municipality, especially in this matter, has a responsibility to predict what will happen, and it is not so easy to predict a drought. The government and its authorities with more resources can make that kind of forecasts and exist to a greater extent than a municipality can actually do. That's why I wondered, had the government been present? The answer to that question was no. I also asked if there are any plans to change the instructions to MSB, and there too the answer was no. I am, of course, grateful if the Government comes back with clear figures on how many of the country's municipalities and inhabitants may be affected by this drought. Another interesting point is that this is not just about the fact that it is a drought and that you may need to ration water, but there are other effects that this may have that are more about the areas that we usually deal with. For example, how can the fire department be affected if the wells become dry? Can other types of community-critical activities stop working, for example if hospitals have too low pressure in their wiring or other functions are affected? Surely there are also some thoughts to think that have still not been presented, at least not in this House. Finally, Madam President, I note that although this has gone from being a local to a national problem, no policy change has come from the government, and I am sorry about that.
i-7bc48bb7f0993643-66	Mrs. Old President! No, the answer is not no. Jan R Andersson misunderstood me most forcefully if he thinks so. We maintain a continuous dialogue with MSB. MSB estimates that they have the resources and the mission required to cope with the situation. SGU, Sweden's geological study, is responsible for and makes the kind of forecasts that Jan R Andersson requests. There is a national responsibility. We are taking long-term action on climate change, and Jan R Andersson's party opposes many of those who could deal with the climate situation in the long term. We are closely following the situation in municipalities, but the foundation, Jan R Andersson, is that it is the municipalities that are responsible for securing their own water supply. It is not that the state takes over responsibility when something becomes difficult. On the other hand, the state can assist with resources, with brokering of various materials, with human resources or with the expertise needed to cope with a special situation. However, the basis for the long-term water supply lies with the municipality. I will continuously follow developments to see how the municipalities manage to live up to this responsibility. But we cannot remove responsibility from the municipalities.
i-7bc48bb7f0993643-70	Mrs. Old President! What I said in the debate with Minister Ygeman was that if you look at the municipalities' ability to prevent and cope with these conditions, the government has in no way said that it will change its attitude or in any other way provide support. You follow the question, and I guess that's good. One outstanding question is, of course, how far the principle of responsibility can be drawn. If the Mälaren were to dry out, would the government do nothing? It is clear that this issue will have consequences in different ways if it goes far enough. There is reason to discuss these issues. I look forward to continuing to discuss them from a crisis preparedness perspective. During this summer we will probably see events that we have not seen before when wells run and operations do not work to the extent that we have previously been able to expect. On such an occasion, of course, I will come back to the matter. At least then I can tell myself that I have raised the issue and brought it to the attention of the government. But what the government did, it must speak for itself.
i-7bc48bb7f0993643-74	Mrs. Old President! I would like to thank Jan Andersson for this interpellation debate. The government is by no means unaware of the problem of drought. We have been discussing this for years, and we have also been very keen to have a dialogue with both authorities and municipalities on their responsibility to prevent this situation. It would be dangerous – as Jan Andersson suggests – to hand over responsibility for the water supply to someone else. If this is suggested, it means that those who are actually responsible do not take the necessary measures to deal with the situation. I would like to remind you that we in Parliament have a consensus on the division of responsibilities. I and Jan R Andersson agree that it is the municipalities that are responsible. If we are to discuss another division of responsibilities later on, that is another issue. But so far there is no party in this House that believes that we should have a different division of responsibility for the supply of drinking water in Sweden.
i-7bc48bb7f0993643-78	Mrs. Old President! Jan R Andersson has asked me if I believe that the crisis in the part-time fire brigades is a problem for Swedish crisis preparedness. Jan Andersson has also asked me whether I intend to take any steps during this parliamentary term to improve the conditions for part-time firefighters or to facilitate the recruitment of part-time firefighters. The municipalities are responsible for civil protection and preventive activities within the municipality. Activities have a fundamental role to play in protecting society against accidents and emergency preparedness and must therefore be able to operate effectively and safely. For a long time now, municipal activities in this area have been organised with full-time and part-time firefighters and fire officers. The availability of emergency facilities that can quickly be in place and start a relief operation is crucial for effective and safe response. It is therefore serious that many municipalities cannot maintain their determined preparedness for civil protection. One clear reason for this is that, for various reasons, municipalities have great difficulty in recruiting part-time firefighters, that is to say, rescue workers on standby. The Government has therefore recently commissioned a special investigator to analyse the municipalities' ability to conduct civil protection and preventive activities. The investigator shall analyse and propose how the activities can be carried out in a more equivalent, efficient and safe manner. An essential part of the assignment means that the investigator will analyse and suggest how municipalities will be better able to recruit part-time firefighters. The assignment shall be reported by 30 June 2018. I and the government will continue to closely monitor developments in this area and, if necessary, take further action. At the same time, it is of great importance that municipalities take the necessary measures to ensure the efficiency and quality of the activities concerned.
i-KX9Gi4aYySvrAVjV6JRDeE	Mrs. Old President! Kungsör, Arboga, Säter, Trosa, Heby, Malung, Eskilstuna, Grängesberg, Gävle, Heby, Höganäs, Oxelösund, Sibbhult, Valdemarsvik, Uppsala, Åhus, Tanum, Sigtuna, Upplands-Bro, Knivsta, Hammerdal, Krokom, Lit, Vara, Fagersta, Åtvidaberg, Vingåker, Filipstad, Simrishamn, Högsby, Lilla Edet – it was only a part of the places that I got through a quick search on the internet where there have been large redundancies of part-time firefighters. Large redundancies mean that at some stations all part-time firefighters have resigned and at other stations a smaller strength has done so. But there are major problems at all these stations with the staffing that is essential. For this reason, I have asked two questions to Minister Ygeman: Does the Government consider that the crisis in the part-time fire brigades is a problem for Swedish crisis preparedness? Does the Government intend to do something during its term of office? From the answer that Mr Ygeman has just given, I can see that the answer to the first question is yes and that the answer to the second question is no. The only thing Ygeman intends to do during this term of office is apparently to investigate the matter. Of course it's good to have an investigation. But Ygeman and I have discussed this matter before. Even then, I realized that you haven't had the impression that it's a problem. With the new civil protection agreement that has been concluded, this problem has escalated. This means not only that a large proportion of part-time firemen have left their mission. Many have actually come back, but in those stations where there are fewer now than in the past there will be further problems in recruiting. The agreement that SKL has signed with the firefighters has made it more difficult for Sweden's part-time fire brigades to find their staffing. The investigation is good, and it has the right funding on many points. But right now there is a crisis in the part-time fire brigades, and that crisis has been aggravated mainly by an agreement that has surprised and cursed many part-time firefighters. It is clear that those part-time firefighters who have had wage cuts will of course be angry and upset, I think we would all be. But it probably also points to something more, that these drastic events may not be what filled the glass, but what caused the glass to overflow. We have been underestimating for a long time the need to have a part-time fire brigade. That is why we have also underpriority to the conditions of part-time firemen. It's not profitable to be a part-time fireman today. Many are for quite different reasons than money. However, when the agreements mean that the compensation is lower, it is clear that a decision is made that can be a bit drastic at the moment. My question to the City Council is then: is there nothing in the way of proposals during the current term of office? You say in your reply that the investigation you have initiated will be reported a few months before the election. Therefore, it will have no effect during the current term of office. Will you do nothing but follow the question and wait for the investigation that will come in just over a year's time?
i-7bc48bb7f0993643-93	Mrs. Old President! It may be a bit of a parade for Jan R Andersson to ask questions about things that others are responsible for and wonder what the Government is doing to solve their problems. I will then reply with the stubbornness of a fool that those responsible for the problem must solve it. In a municipality, it is the municipality that is responsible for civil protection. You mentioned Heby twice in your list, but maybe it's because of a special love for Heby, what do I know? It's a nice municipality with a new county membership. It is up to the emergency services in the various municipalities to make the mission as a firefighter in readiness attractive. It is up to the state to ensure that there are good training and recruitment opportunities. It is the municipalities and their collaboration body SKL that have signed a new agreement with their trade union partners. I cannot and will not influence this, and this cannot and will not affect Jan R Andersson. Municipalities must assume their employer responsibility, and trade unions must assume their responsibilities as workers' representatives. What we can influence, however, is what the future system should look like, for example, if we are to develop new opportunities, if we are to expand the possibilities for recruitment and the educational system. That is why we have set up the investigation to review these particular elements. Hopefully it will come with good answers, which will make us build the system stronger for the future. Contrary to Jan Andersson, I believe that the anger in our part is due to this agreement. However, I think it is going to bed. The second part deals with the fact that working life and residence patterns have changed since we introduced part-time fire brigades. I think we need to change the system if it's gonna have a chance to survive. These are more long-term changes. It is therefore important that we have a good basis and that we have solid land to stand on. For that reason, we have set up the investigation. I believe that we can discuss these changes in broad agreement. I note that there are exciting examples from other countries to look at. New technologies have been used there to cope with the task in a different way from what is being done today. Once the investigation comes, you can also discuss what basic employment relationships should look like and who should be the employer. Perhaps you should go after where the firefighters serve and spend most of their time than where they live. However, these questions may be looked at by the investigation, and we shall have a discussion when the report of inquiry comes.
i-7bc48bb7f0993643-101	Mrs. Old President! There are, of course, several dimensions to the issue. Municipal self-government is fundamental, and it is always easy for a minister to refer only to it. Of course, it is also a good way to respond if you want to avoid the Constitutional Committee. After all, however, there is a responsibility on the part of the State. These are matters relating to training and regulation of the profession. So there are opportunities to do things. I had two parts to my question. One is about how this affects our emergency preparedness. A comparison could be made with the fact that a very large proportion of our police are resigning – although quite a lot of police are now resigning – or if a large part of our ambulance drivers do. How would this affect our emergency preparedness? These are matters of concern to Minister Ygeman. The Government says he is concerned about the situation, but, as I said, nothing will be done in a hurry to simplify the situation. That, of course, is what Ygeman says: Part-time fire brigades are in one sense designed for another time. Then we must find ways of modernising part-time fire brigades, because if we were to abolish everyone and replace them with full-time fire brigades, we would have a much lower level of preparedness in many situations and a much higher cost. Part-time fire brigades are a very cheap insurance policy for large parts of the country that could not survive without them. For this very reason, the issue is important, and I therefore call for the commitment of the Government. Many of the places that are already struggling to cope with their normal service are even more difficult if the part-time fire brigades are unable to operate in a high quality and efficient way. Many of Sweden's part-time firefighters are very committed because they work for their own countryside and the people they meet every day. They help and make an important contribution to society. But even for part-time firefighters, there are situations where the water runs over and they get angry and upset. In such a situation, I expect the Government to act in different ways, as the Government does on many other issues. He can either make suggestions, or he can otherwise show his support. As far as these parts are concerned, Ygeman has actually done nothing. At least I haven't heard anything. However, it is still possible to express support for part-time firefighters, because they need a better situation. This can be done without commenting on the contractual situation, which is a bit complicated. I understand, like Ygeman, that one cannot say that an agreement should be one way or the other. But both I and Ygeman can say that in some sense it is a bit unfortunate that an agreement is signed so that situations such as these arise. This was one part of my question, i.e. how this affects Sweden's emergency preparedness. I would like Ygeman to be able to develop this part in the next post if possible.
i-7bc48bb7f0993643-109	Mrs. Old President! On Jan R Andersson's question, I can answer that MSB's assessment today is that it does not affect crisis preparedness, but that it could do so. That is why, of course, we are following the question. I thank Mr Andersson for the praise of my constitutional integrity, that is to say that I leave the municipalities responsible for the issues for which they are responsible. That means I shouldn't get involved in them. It also means that it is for the Contracting Parties to determine the terms and conditions. In some sense, the conditions for civil protection are in readiness to compare with the port conflict in Gothenburg. There are contracting parties, and there is another association that does other things. This is, of course, an unfortunate situation. But I believe that in the discussion and dialogue between those who are emergency services in readiness and trade unions, and employers, the situation will be resolved. However, we still have the structural problem. It is a question of changing labour market and residence patterns. This requires more long-term action. I believe that Jan Andersson and I agree that such a thing also requires a good preparation basis and that it is a discussion that must actually take time. In the second part, which deals with a possible conflict in the labour market between various employee representatives and employers, I am absolutely convinced that it is best resolved in discussion and dialogue between them, not in dialogue between me and Jan R Andersson.
i-7bc48bb7f0993643-114	Mrs. Old President! I am not going to get bored, because it is veteran day today and I, as one of the members of the Committee on Defence, would like to participate. Nevertheless, I think that the answer deserves a comment. This applies to the conflict compared to that in Gothenburg. However, in the conflict that is going on in the port of Gothenburg, according to the hearing, a smaller trade union has been forced to join a larger trade union. In this case, it is exactly the opposite. Here it is a larger trade union that has been disconnected because a much smaller trade union has received the first collective agreement, which has then become the leader of the whole industry. Of course, this is not something that I expect the Government to comment on, but it is still important that it is in substance right. I may find this odd, but there's nothing I can do about it. It is strange that a much smaller trade union is signing an agreement involving a much larger trade union. As this is my last speech, I have to say that if I had not asked Minister Ygeman an interpellation with these questions, there would probably not have been an investigation, which is now coming after all. If I had not been on the issue, the commitment of the Government would probably not have been such that we would have had any change. Now it is a little late, and it will take time. After all, I hope that we can agree on the investigation that is to come so that we can give part-time firemen good conditions to be able to do their job. This not only deserves part-time firemen, but it deserves the whole of Sweden and, above all, the Swedish countryside.
i-7bc48bb7f0993643-118	Mrs. Old President! Jan R Andersson highlights his own merits in the discussion. It would be strange for me to take this feeling away from him on a flag day like this. I would therefore just like to thank him for a good interpellation debate.
