i-c2b267abace0d136-1	Madam President, I would like Helena Bouveng has asked me what measures I intend to take to increase the momentum to get more people to work after they are 65 years of age. Niklas Wykman has asked the Minister for Labour and Establishment if she sees any risks in the fact that the special wage tax for older people affects the incentives for employers to have experienced employees and whether she can consider extending the increased job tax deduction to people from, for example, 64 years of age. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer these questions as well. The introduction of the special wage tax was an expression of the Government's ambition to strengthen public finances and to make the tax system more uniform. Since it took office, the government has been pursuing a tight fiscal policy which has led to a sharp reduction in the deficit inherited from the previous government. At the same time, this responsible fiscal policy has enabled urgent social investment, unlike the former government's unfunded, large and unfair tax cuts. Looking at the employer's social security contributions and payroll taxes, the elderly still have a favourable position. The employer's contributions for persons aged 65 and over are about half as high as for persons under the age of 65. I therefore see no risk that the special wage tax on older workers would significantly affect the incentives for employers to retain or employ older employees. Evaluations, for example by IFAU, also show that general cuts in social security contributions are ineffective as job creation measures. On the other hand, working older people still enjoy tax advantages in the form of the increased job tax credit. The design of the pension system also means that those who work longer and retire later receive a higher annual pension. At present, I do not intend to further increase the income gap between older people who work and older people who do not work by reducing taxes. As regards the tendency to retire, surveys by the SCB show that it is mainly the will or physical health that is lacking, not the employer's demand. In order to get more older people to work longer, the working environment needs to be improved and work-related ill-health prevented. In the field of health and safety at work policy, the government has greatly strengthened its resources. In order to continue to strengthen the Agency's supervisory activities, additional funds were added to the Government's latest budget. The Government has also presented a strategy for modern working life and contributed to increased research into sustainable working environments. Increased resources are needed to improve the working environment and working conditions in the local government sector. The Government's investment in 10 welfare billions for municipalities means significant resources that enable municipalities and county councils to strengthen health care, school and care. Such investments in welfare are also of great importance for the working environment, not least in many women-dominated industries that are characterised by greater problems with ill health than other sectors.
i-c2b267abace0d136-8	Madam President, I would like We live longer and healthier lives than before. That every other woman today experiences her 80th birthday and that my mother, almost 88 years old, is sitting in the gallery today and starting her day with gymnastics, I think is fantastic. Many people can and want to stay in work after 65 years, not least women. Between 2006 and 2014, the employment rate in the 65-74 group increased by a total of 6.3 per cent. Eurostat statistics show that Sweden had the fastest growing employment rate in this particular age group – a very positive development which I believe the Minister of Finance, like me, was pleased about, although she herself was not the Minister of Finance during these years. The positive development is largely explained by the alliance government's tax relief for the elderly. The increased job tax credit for those aged 65 or over made it more profitable to remain in the labour market, while the employer's contributions for employing people over 65, the so-called special wage tax, were abolished. In other words, it became cheaper to hire people over 65 years of age, while it became more profitable for the 65-plusers to continue working. Madam President, I would like Of course, the fact that we live longer is very positive. But this automatically means that you also have to work higher up the age bracket, not only for your own salary but also for being requested and needed in a working community and also after 65 years with your skills and work experience that you have after a long working life. In many parts of the country, not least in my home county, Jönköping County, it has often also solved the shortage of doctors, nurses, teachers and others. Now the Red-Green Government has chosen to reintroduce the special wage tax for people over 65 years of age. Criticism was strong even then. Concerns were expressed that fewer people would choose to remain in the labour market after 65 years. Now it looks like these fears have unfortunately come true. The employment rate of seniors has decreased from 2015 to 2016 by 0.6 percentage points, while the employment rate has increased in all other groups – according to SCB's new figures. Nowadays, I know all parties agree that we have to work longer, including the Social Democrats who did not let mince the words when Fredrik Reinfeldt stated that we actually have to work further up the ages to cope with our welfare ambitions. The Social Democrats Tomas Eneroth at the time accused Fredrik Reinfeldt of both pointing fingers and being provocative. Five years later, the responsible Socialist Minister basically says the same thing. Is the Minister of Finance not concerned, then, that the employment rate is actually decreasing in this particular group, which claims to want to work higher up the age range?
i-c2b267abace0d136-16	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. This is not a particularly high level of political debate at the moment. This certainly applies not only here in Sweden but internationally and widely. Populism and bad ideas are gaining ground and terrain around the world. Madam President, I would like I believe that this calls on us, as decent politicians, to formulate ourselves in a credible, sustainable and long-term way. Unfortunately, the Minister of Finance's response does not constitute an exception to the low level of the debate at the moment with words that appear to be taken from an SSU camp in Bommersvik or elsewhere. Economic or scientific ambition may be completely sidelined in favour of electoral slogans or Youth League slogans. I think that is unfortunate and, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I believe that this is contributing to a climate of debate in which bad ideas and populism are gaining ground. It is time for the established policy, including the Finance Minister, to tighten up. It is not unfair to reduce taxes that give a nurse or a nurse one or two thousand dollars more in their wallets. Tax measures are not unfair to keep older people in the labour force longer. Measures that establish the value of working and pushing back exclusion in society are not unfair. One should probably weigh words a little more carefully in view of the climate of debate that is. Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance claims to have consolidated public finances. How much has public expenditure decreased year after year when Magdalena Andersson has been Minister of Finance? By how many billions have public finances been reduced annually during this period? Madam President, I would like The subject covered by these interpellations is the employment of older people and the possibility of remaining in work. We know that it means a lot to health, to the economy, of course, and to social interaction to have an active working life up and down the age range. It helps to reduce illness, to increase the perceived social welfare in one's vicinity and so on. Why, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is it so urgent to raise taxes on this very thing that we know is health promotion, employment promotion and which means a great deal to many people and brings much joy? Madam President, I would like It is almost astounding that the Minister of Finance has succeeded in reducing the employment rate of a group in which we all agree if it is structurally very important that the employment rate is increased. Madam President, I would like We know that if we are to cope with well-being and health and push back the diseases of aging, people need to work longer to a greater extent. We have a burning boom – thanks, among other things, to the reforms that have been carried out in the past among the strongest, not only in Europe but throughout the developed world. We have a very expansionary monetary policy that stimulates the labour market. In this situation, the Minister of Finance is able to pursue a policy that is pushing down the employment rate in the group in which it is perhaps the long-term and structurally most important that we get employment in. Is the Minister of Finance satisfied with this?
i-c2b267abace0d136-27	Madam President, I would like In particular, I would like to welcome Helena Bouveng's mother to the House. I'm sure it's a very proud mother sitting in the gallery. I'm going to see my mother myself tomorrow, and it's great to be able to have the older generation close. There is as much experience and wisdom as we daughters can enjoy. My mother is someone I try to keep in close contact with and call as often as I can, because she has a long experience in joining the media. As a teacher of social science, she can give me good advice in my profession but of course also in life at large. It's amazing that we have older generations. They have so much to give us, and we will do everything we can to take advantage of their experience in both professional and private life. Both Niklas Wykman and Helena Bouveng point out that the employment rate of older people has fallen. Here's the thing: In the 65-69 group, the employment rate increased in 2016. In the 70-74 age group, the employment rate decreased. However, it already decreased in 2015, i.e. before the introduction of the special wage tax. It is therefore difficult to argue that the special wage tax is the reason why the employment rate has decreased in that group. It is also important to point out that none of these changes are statistically assured. Is it these figures that Helena Bouveng and Niklas Wykman have to keep in mind when they try to defend the fact that we have seen so many interpellations on this subject where it is claimed that this would have disastrous effects is a straw that is grasped. I am happy to take this debate again next year when we have new figures and perhaps there is a statistically assured change that we can discuss. The government has consolidated public finances, as Niklas Wykman says. It's a completely different situation in public finances now than when Niklas Wykman was at the Ministry of Finance. It is quite correct that we have not consolidated public finances by cutting expenditure. We do not think that fewer teachers, nurses or police officers are needed; it is not so that we have worked t, on the contrary. Instead, we have raised the tax – something that Niklas Wykman has said so many times is quite the wrong way to go. But we see the result: strong public finances, rising employment and falling unemployment. At present, older people have significantly lower taxation than other people on the labour market, both through lower employers' contributions and lower income tax. Helena Bouveng and Niklas Wykman want to reduce the tax further. Today, the person over 65 years of age pays 20 000 less tax than the person under 65 years of age. If you have an income of 20 000 a month, you pay 20 000 less tax during the year. Thus, a single mother who earns 20,000 a month, such as a nurse, pays 20,000 more in taxes than a pensioner, who probably has outflyed children and a ready-to-mortgage apartment or villa. Why is it fair for the assistant nurse to pay so much higher taxes? Why should her tax differential increase further?
i-c2b267abace0d136-37	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Minister for Finance and I agree that our mothers' experiences are well worth taking advantage of. I am also pleased that the Minister for Finance has such good contact with his mother, just as I have with mine. I believe that the Minister for Finance and I also agree that it is important that more people choose to work even after the age of 65. No, it is not just financial incentives that govern. We, like them, underline the importance of a good working environment. We Moderates also believe that it must be possible to change and further train themselves even higher up in the ages. It creates a more flexible and modern labour market where people have good opportunities to change direction and career even later in life, in order to stay in the labour market after 65. Madam President, I would like However, we cannot ignore the fact that taxes actually control behaviour. What we want more is less tax, and what we want less tax is more. Taxes have an incredible signal effect: This is what the government wants more of, and this is what the government wants less of. If a government wants to change behaviour and culture that can take a long time to change, endurance is required. This applies, for example, to the many self-evident view that at 65 people are retired. Therefore, the alliance government carried out tax reforms that made it more profitable for both the employee and the one who chose to stay. From 2006, the number of employed persons in this group increased by 100,000. Now the red-green government has chosen to risk breaking this positive trend. Older entrepreneurs are forced to value more of their work effort, and employers face higher costs of hiring and retaining seniors. As Mr Wykman talks about, the employment rate for older people has fallen despite the last two good years, but they have not fallen in number, quite the opposite. Is it not important, then, for the government to increase incentives for a longer working life rather than against them and to strengthen the driving forces rather than weaken them?
i-c2b267abace0d136-44	Madam President, I would like Hats off for the Minister of Finance for the rhetorical tricks. But I don't think that's the best way to take responsibility for Sweden or the best way to pursue a policy that builds credibility, that makes people want to invest, that allows companies to grow, that allows wages to increase and that allows more people to enter the labour market. Madam President, I would like I rather believe that this creates a distance between us politicians who are here and all the people who are out there seeing a reality. Examples of this are when the Minister for Finance makes it sound like the employment rate has actually almost increased among older people, although it has decreased. I think that people get rather tired of politicians, Madam President, when they hear that kind of reasoning and when it is obvious that something has decreased or that it is statistically significant that perhaps, perhaps, at best, it has stood still. And then there comes a politician and says that it is going great and that it has even almost increased. Then trust and trust are lost, and it is not good for Sweden when it is so. People probably lose confidence a little when they hear a politician make comparisons between the health worker who earns 20 000 SEK a month, and who probably then works part-time, and a 65-year-old who has already worked his whole life and paid taxes – and the politician then tries to concoct a rhetorical score on an injustice between them. Of course, most people understand that what you get to compare is a 65-year-old who chooses to stay in work and a 65-year-old who retires. The 65-year-old who remains in work continues to contribute to the Treasury along with the 65-year-old who retires and receives his pension money instead. Putting these two 65-year-olds against each other is a reasonable comparison – an intellectually honest comparison. Why should one have to continue paying so much tax when it is optional to work? When people start to undress the kind of argument that the Minister of Finance has and wonder what is behind it and whether it is connected in some way and logical and then feel that it is not, they might as well vote for those who say a little anything at any time. The Minister for Finance also seems to do this. Madam President, I would like It becomes clear when Magdalena Andersson is here worrying about a nurse's finances. Many common occupational groups – and speaking of their mothers being my own mother care assistant – have received 1 500 – 2 000 SEK more a month thanks to the job tax deduction. Who has opposed this? Who was against the first job tax deduction? Who was against the second job tax deduction? Who was against the third job tax deduction? Who was against the fourth job tax deduction? Who was against the fifth job tax deduction? Who was against the first five-hundring more in the wallet, the second five-hundring more in the wallet, the third five-hundring more in the wallet and the fourth five hundred more in the wallet? Yes, it was Magdalena Andersson who was against ordinary people with ordinary jobs getting 2 000 SEK more in their wallet. Now Magdalena Andersson is here talking about that it is unfair for nurses to pay more in tax than pensioners. Madam President, I would like This is simply not connected. Politics needs to jump up on a slightly higher level and proper reasoning is made about how it actually is. Madam President, I would like It is not the case that the Minister of Finance has consolidated the budget or created stronger public finances. She has structurally weakened Swedish finances in the long term by increasing the expenditure pressure in the economy. So now we have higher and more spending than we had before, but then we take in more money from people, which is driving down employment in the long term. This is not a strengthening of public finances.
i-c2b267abace0d136-54	Madam President, I would like There is an internationally recognised calculation of public finances. We use the EU's statistics, which count on public finances. These are the criteria we use. This is where Niklas Wykman comes up with completely different criteria for calculating public finances, while at the same time he talks about the importance of keeping to facts and having a serious debate. Seriously, Niklas Wykman, this was one of the more rogue I've heard. I think it is dangerous to use that kind of rhetoric. Looking at European statistics, it is clear that we have strengthened public finances. That is because we look at both the income and the expenditure. It is quite correct that we have increased spending, because we think there is a need for more police officers, more nurses, more teachers and more doctors. That is exactly what we have invested in. But we have not borrowed it, but we have financed it by raising taxes. We have been able to make these important investments while strengthening public finances. If you look at what is usually called structural savings, you can see that this has also been strengthened during our government. We have had surpluses in public finances both in 2015 and 2016, despite the increased costs of refugee immigration. As far as the employment rate is concerned, if you look at the whole group 65 - 74, you can see that it has fallen. On the other hand, looking at the group 65 - 69, you can see that it has increased, while it has fallen in the group 70 - 74. In the group where it has fallen, it also fell in 2015, when the special payroll tax did not exist. None of these changes are statistically confirmed. I find it interesting to discuss the figures, but I think we can continue the debate when we have further statistics. When we have statistically assured changes, we can discuss them, but if the Moderates only have a non-statistical change in a group where employment fell even before the tax change struck, I think it is a straw to be grasped. We can take this debate when there are more and better figures. Then there is the question of comparing nurses and pensioners. I know that pensioners in any case tend to think that you can, because they think it is wrong that they do not have job tax deductions. Pensioners who do not work but pay higher taxes than those who do not work tend to find this very unfair. Similarly, I think that a nurse who is working and who may have young children at home who need to be supported finds it unfair that she should pay 20 000 SEK more in tax than a pensioner who is working but who does not reasonably have the same dependency burden as herself.
i-c2b267abace0d136-63	Madam President, I would like The fact that experienced employees want to work anymore should not punish themselves but pay off. Strengthened driving forces for higher-age work and an adapted working environment are good for a well-functioning labour market policy. Therefore, in our budget exercise, we propose that the increased tax credit should be extended to include people at the age of 64. When the government wants to make it more expensive to hire people over the age of 65, we Moderates want work for the elderly to pay off. Magdalena Andersson chose to reintroduce the special wage tax for older people in order to strengthen public finances. The revenue is estimated at 1.77 billion. Regardless of what the Minister of Finance says about the statistics, we can say that fewer 65-plusers have chosen to continue working after 65. The question then arises: will the Minister of Finance revise this revenue? Is the Minister of Finance not in the least concerned that older people now choose active leisure life rather than a professional life? Is this revenue perhaps not as large as the finance minister expected? Do we not need more rather than fewer seniors who work higher up in their ages – more doctors, teachers and nurses, which we so well need, who de facto remain? As far as taxes are concerned, we can only note that despite all the electoral promises, the Alliance has reduced taxes on pensioners to a much greater extent than the Social Democrats have ever done.
i-c2b267abace0d136-68	Madam President, I would like The Alliance governments reduced the tax for an average pensioner by SEK 850 a month. I can tell the Minister of Finance who was against all these reductions. It was the Minister of Finance who opposed that an average pensioner would receive SEK 850 more a month and a guarantee pension is about SEK 750 more a month. This was Magdalena Andersson against so that it even sparked about it at the time. Now you're obviously in favour, and that's a good thing. I do not object to the use of the EU acquis that exists to measure public finances, and the Minister for Finance also hears it if she listens to what I say. I am opposed to the words with which the Minister for Finance describes developments. The Minister of Finance, if you look at the forecast for this year, has increased expenditure in the central government's share of public finances from approximately EUR 860 billion to EUR 960 billion. Expenditure has thus increased by SEK 100 billion. Now there are a lot of people coming to the gallery, and you are very welcome. Anyone sitting in the gallery or sitting at home watching this on television may wonder whether one can say that one has taken greater responsibility for a budget, and so to speak, reduced the bad side of a budget, if one has increased spending from 860 billion to 960 billion. Has a budget been tight and accountable if it has increased expenditure from EUR 860 billion to EUR 960 billion? Here's where the Minister of Finance says she's been. It has been tight and responsible when spending has increased from EUR 860 billion to EUR 960 billion. But can ordinary people recognize such a description, that one has been frugal when one has increased expenditure sharply? Actually, I don't think so. This is at the heart of the problems of the Minister for Finance.
i-c2b267abace0d136-74	Madam President, I would like Is it responsible to increase expenditure? Yes, it is if you increase your income as well. Is it irresponsible for a company to attract more people? No, not if you get increased revenue that pays it all. I've increased my expenses. We've hired more teachers, we've hired more doctors, and we've hired more cops. But we have also increased the tax so that we can afford it. With Niklas Wykman's view on this, it would be a responsible economic policy to lay off thousands of police officers, teachers and nurses. It is a policy that Niklas Wykman has to stand for. And it stands for the Moderates, because they want to lower the tax. But what problems do we have in Sweden today? Do we have too few or too many cops? I want us to have more cops. Do we have too few or too many teachers? I want us to have more teachers. Do we have too few or too many doctors? I want us to have more doctors. But then we're going to increase spending. One thing is clear: there is not a tax cut in the world that allows you to hire more police officers, more doctors or more teachers. Here is the dividing line in Swedish politics. I want us to have a safe society for our children, for our young people and for our elderly. Then tax cuts are not the answer to that.
i-c2b267abace0d136-79	Madam President, I would like Mats Green has asked the Minister for Housing and Digitalisation what he meant by his statement on a reduction in the capital gain tax on housing and whether he intends to pursue the issue. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. It is important to maintain stable and predictable rules for such important decisions as the purchase of housing. The need for action in this area must be seen in the long term and handled with care. The changes in housing taxation by the Alliance government have moved towards a reduction in current taxation and an increase in taxation at the time of the transaction. At the beginning of last year, the government took the initiative for broad political talks in which, among other things, we wanted to review the design of taxes in order to promote increased mobility in the housing market. Mats Green's party and the other bourgeois parties chose to leave those talks. I do not see, therefore, at present that there is any opening for a cross-block solution. The government is working intensively with measures to improve the functioning of the housing market. The government is currently implementing the largest housing policy initiative in 20 years. As part of this, a housing policy package was presented in June 2016 proposing 22 measures for more housing. For example, the rules on the deferral of capital gains on the sale of private dwellings have been amended, which means that the ceiling on the deferral amount has been removed for disposals of private dwellings that take place between 21 June 2016 and 30 June 2020. In addition, the method of calculating the amount of deferrals for the purchase of cheaper dwellings has changed. The government's priority and effort to build more housing has produced results. A combination of active government, responsible municipalities, a construction sector that is making an effort and a positive economic cycle have made it possible to increase construction around the country. In 2016, construction of the largest number of apartments began since 1990.
i-9JHU4UFuZSCg2Wuzud85eX	Madam President, I would like The interpellation that I made to Peter Eriksson was about the fact that on Sunday 29 January he announced that he wanted to see a reduction in capital gains tax on housing. Peter Eriksson is just Minister of Housing. The following day, on Monday 30 January, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson announced that the capital gains tax on housing would certainly not be reduced. My simple question here today was: What is really going on? I have been told, among other things, that the Minister for Finance is taking over this issue because the work is so distributed within the government. If you draw this conclusion a little further, the work is so divided that when an environmental party says something that a social democrat does not agree with, the environmental party must not answer, but it is a social democrat who goes in and steers things up. Once again, I would like answers to what is going on. Is Peter Eriksson's statement that the capital gains tax on housing should be reduced, or is it the Minister for Finance's very clear statement that it should absolutely not be reduced that applies? Then the Minister of Finance also lists a number of measures in relation to the crisis in the housing market in Sweden. We who work with housing policy and deal with these issues daily know that the word crisis really is a correct word, although it is somewhat worn out, when it comes to describing the situation in the housing market in Sweden. However, I note that, despite the most serious situation on the Swedish housing market since the 1960s, no government has since the 1970s put forward so few proposals to increase the construction of housing in Sweden. That is simply not acceptable, Madam President. In fact, it is more than that; it is totally untenable. I share the view of the Minister for Finance that there should be a review of the capital gains tax in order to allow greater mobility within the existing stock. The housing policy talks referred to by the Minister of Finance did not lead anywhere, as the Social Democrats and the Green Party were too attached to the Left Party and refused to address the major underlying problems that characterise the Swedish housing market. That is why these talks broke down. The Alliance wanted to do too much, and the government wanted to do too little. Again, I want to know what is going on. Does the announcement from Peter Eriksson apply on Sunday, or does the announcement from Magdalena Andersson apply on Monday? I think that everyone who owns a house, a right-of-occupancy or an owner-occupied apartment in Sweden should get a clear and long-term message about what applies internally in the government. What policy will be pursued, and what proposal will be put forward in Parliament on this and other issues relating to housing policy?
i-c2b267abace0d136-91	Madam President, I would like I have worked a lot on housing issues since I became Minister of Finance – an unusual amount for a Minister of Finance. This is mainly because of one thing: I am passionate that the young people who sit in the gallery – they are the same age as my own children – will have the same opportunity as my generation got, namely to get the wonderful feeling of putting the key in the lock to their own first home, turning and stepping in. I'm gonna let them feel, this is where I live. I have my own accommodation. This is what drives me. It is my drive to spend so much time and effort on housing issues. At present it is very difficult for young people to enter the housing market. That is why we are trying to encourage both municipalities and housing companies to build cheap rental apartments, so that young people have the opportunity to get a first foot in the housing market. We have introduced investment aid aimed precisely so that companies will build rental apartments for which there will also be reasonable rents. We control investment support, so that it will go precisely to the construction of cheaper rental apartments, drive down construction costs and drive the companies to try to find cheaper solutions. We are also working to increase the opportunities for industrial construction and simplify the rules, so that you can produce many similar houses and thus reduce the construction costs and thus enable young people to move to their own home. We also give a special bonus to municipalities that ensure that land is produced, because it is the municipalities that decide how the land is to be used and that ensures that construction plans come up so that the companies can build. The state does not decide the municipalities, but we can give an economic stimulus and make it more attractive for the municipalities to build. That's what this government has been working on, and that's how we've prioritised the financial resources-- precisely to enable young people to leave home. A reduction in capital gains would benefit those who have owned their homes for a long time, such as my generation. We've made a lot of money from our homes. It is a problem with spending a lot of money on changing the capital gains tax. At the same time, it is not unproblematic, because it also makes it more expensive to change homes. This increases the risk of pensioner couples remaining in their homes longer than they would otherwise have. Both themselves and others might want them to move to a smaller home so that the villa is available for a family with children. This was something that was discussed in the housing talks, but it did not make any progress – partly because it did not find sensible funding. It was also something I thought we were fairly agreed on in the housing talks, and my picture is not exactly that the Moderates were pushing the issue of the capital gains tax. The government has no proposals for the capital gains tax. We can, of course, open the door to discussing it again, but we do not have such proposals at present. It's good that Mats Green brings up the housing calls. I participated in them, and my picture is not that the Moderates pushed a particular issue particularly hard in the housing talks, but Mats Green may want to tell you what the Moderates want to do specifically in housing policy – other than loosening the beach cover. Seriously, I do not think that young people will get housing by letting the beach cover off.
i-c2b267abace0d136-100	Madam President, I would like So I am not the one standing here arguing for a reduction in capital gains tax. My question was about Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson, Magdalena Andersson's fellow minister. He is the one who told us that it would be lowered. Given that the Finance Minister went out the next day saying that the profit tax should absolutely not be reduced, I simply wonder: what is the message from the cooperation government? How well do you cooperate internally? I also find it interesting that Magdalena Andersson says that few finance ministers have devoted so much time and effort to housing policy as she does. I think it is a good thing, but for this very reason it is so sad that since the 1970s no government has delivered so few proposals to increase the construction of housing in Sweden – especially given that we now have the worst housing crisis in Sweden since the 1960s, Madam President. There are a variety of things you could, should and should have done. The government has also not lacked opportunities; last Tuesday in the Civil Committee, which handles housing and construction in Sweden, we discussed new rules for noise. The Parliament has made an announcement that the government will return to the Riksdag to start simplifying the noise rules. The Minister for Housing was there, and we wanted an explanation of the government's refusal to do anything about the Swedish noise regulations. This particularly affects the possibility of building smaller apartments for young people and less centrally located apartments for all. There the government refuses to do anything. My speaking time does not allow me to list all the measures proposed by the Alliance but which the government is doing its utmost to either trap or do nothing about, Madam President. I can make a promise to the Minister of Finance today – I can speak on behalf of the whole of my party, and indeed I dare to speak on behalf of the whole Alliance – that the government could get through any simplification after lunch if it had the will. I can also stand here and list a number of proposals that we Moderates have pushed to make it easier to build in Sweden. One example is detailed plans; we want to abolish the requirement for a detailed plan. Turn around on PBL! Redeploy the tasks of municipalities to perhaps not identify the areas where they are allowed to build, but to identify those areas where they are not allowed to build. Otherwise, the normal principle should be that you actually have to build housing. We've said that we can't just sit around and find the margin. We must at some point dare to give ourselves up on the foundations of housing policy in Sweden. Then you can not sit with a lot of sacred cows, but then everyone must say: Okay, we are prepared to think again and think again. It has been the Moderates, and it has been the Alliance, but the government sits with too many sacred cows that it does not want to touch at all. The Minister of Finance brought up the beach shelter. It is a part, but it is a small part of a variety of measures. The few and limited measures implemented by the government are measures that the government's own experts have said will, at best, have a limited effect on housing construction. That is not good enough, Madam President. Now that we are discussing housing policy, I would like to say once again that it is remarkable to spend so much time on housing policy and get so little done. It is not sustainable, especially in view of the situation that young people in particular need to deal with in the Swedish housing crisis. So I want more action from the government and, above all, I want to know which of the announcements about the capital gains tax from the government's various government ministers apply.
i-c2b267abace0d136-108	Madam President, I would like I tried to be clear in my last speech. We do not currently have any proposals to reduce the capital gains tax. That was a clear message I gave, and I can give it again: we do not currently have any plans to reduce the capital gains tax. For we are in the same place as we did when the Moderates chose to leave the housing talks, because we found no reasonable funding. That is also exactly what Peter Eriksson says in the article, that is, he does not see what funding there is and that it is funding that is the problem. As long as we do not have any funding, we have no plans to reduce the capital gains tax. Then perhaps it is not only the number of proposals that matter if more is built, but also the size of the proposals. The government has made the biggest investment in housing policy in 20 years. It is not large in number of proposals, but it is large in number of billions – there are many billions we are now spending on investment aid and on incentives for municipalities to ensure that it is built. Last year, SEK 1.8 billion was paid out to municipalities where much has been built; among other things, Borås received SEK 30 million. It is a municipality that builds a lot, and it involves some costs. For me, it is important that municipalities ensure that it is built, and it is important that apartments are built. For our young people must have a place to move when it is time to leave home. Young people must be given the opportunity to take the important first step into the housing market and get a home, and that is precisely what the government's large and comprehensive proposal is all about. Mats Green says he wants to look at the basics of housing policy. When I participated in the housing talks, it was not basic foundations I heard highlighted from the Moderates, but you are welcome to discuss which basic foundations of housing policy you want to change, Mats Green. I guess it's not noise and beach protection. Is the requirement for a detailed plan abolished the basic foundation the Moderates want to change? There was a discussion in the housing policy talks about that, and there were some questions as to whether it would really have a particularly significant effect. Wouldn't the plans before the detailed plans swell then, so that the sum of such an operation might not have such a great effect? Please tell us which basic elements of housing policy the Moderates want to change, Mats Green!
i-c2b267abace0d136-115	Madam President, I would like The government has introduced a billion-dollar subsidy to companies to build rental housing. It's a billion-dollar subsidy that nobody really wants. It would be interesting if the Minister of Finance could list who asked for this and thought it was a good thing. All the referrals sawed it along with the ankles, Madam President. The only body that did not saw the proposal along with the ankles was Sabo, that is, an organisation led by the Social Democrats. It was said that it could possibly have a certain effect in a few sparsely populated municipalities but that in that case it is a very limited effect. That was the most positive statement you could get about the billion-dollar subsidies we're talking about. We say that we need to start looking at the basics of housing policy. We have put forward proposals ranging from the municipal planning monopoly and the possibility to appeal to make housing construction an equal national interest to other national interests. As things stand today, Madam President, it is always housing construction that has to be ironed in the face of national interests in terms of wind power and one with the other. The government refused to do so; it refused to take that discussion. I would also like to ask why the government refuses to act in accordance with Parliament's directives, including noise. Most people agree that this has an enormous impact on construction in Sweden, both in small towns and in urban areas. The government has not really put forward a single proposal during this term of office in addition to more money for housing companies. No government since the 1970s has delivered so few proposals to make it easier to build as the current government. No government has ever done so little for so few when it comes to housing construction in the Swedish housing crisis. This, Madam President, is quite remarkable.
i-c2b267abace0d136-120	Madam President, I would like The questions of national interest and whether the municipal plan monopoly was raised in the housing policy talks, so it is not at all the case that the government refuses to discuss this. On the other hand, as is often the case in housing policy, there are conflicting interests. There is also an inquiry into national interests, which the moderate-led government appointed and which did not come to the conclusion that any changes would be made. Here's the thing: This government has invested a lot in building rental apartments that young people can live in, with reasonable rents, which gives young people an opportunity to leave home. This is what drives our housing policy – that there should be rental apartments that you can live in, at reasonable prices, when you have taken your first step into the housing market and perhaps also the first step into the labour market. Our housing policy is driven by getting this opportunity for people to be able to put the key in the lock on their first own apartment, step in and say: Here I can start my life. I can live here. Here I can be independent and decide what I want to do. Private housing, own work, own income – I want all young people in Sweden to have the opportunity to feel that freedom. This is also the basis of the housing policy pursued by the government. We have invested in building more rental apartments with reasonable rents. The purpose of the investment aid that we have put in place is precisely to build rental apartments for young people and others with reasonable income. This is also why we invest in municipalities that ensure that it is built. There is nothing more important to this government in terms of housing policy than the existence of good housing for all people on normal incomes. Instead, the former government ensured that those who already have good income were strengthened by abolishing the property tax and introducing ROT deductions.
i-c2b267abace0d136-125	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me whether or not the forest industry will be exempt from the kilometre tax. An investigation is working on producing a proposal for road wear tax and will submit its report by 28 February 2017. The structure of the tax is part of the study's mission to analyse, as well as the impact of the proposed tax on different sectors and regions. The Committee has the task of making proposals on appropriate levels of taxation and on the basis of differentiation. The study will also highlight the impact of the proposals on different sectors and regions in Sweden, including in particular the forest industry. Once the report has been submitted, it will be further prepared.
i-c2b267abace0d136-128	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. The Red Green Government promised before the elections that a kilometre tax would be introduced, so it was not surprising that after the elections the government set up an investigation to find out how to introduce this tax. Kilometer tax seems to be something that is very close to the heart of social democrats, environmentalists and left-wing parties, after all, negatively this tax means for jobs and companies throughout Sweden. This is a tax that will strike very hard, not least on my part of the country. Northern Sweden will be hit very hard by this tax. It is not surprising – if you choose to tax distances, it is of course those parts of the country with the longest distance to handle that will have the biggest problems. Madam President, I would like Adding this kilometre tax to the policy of the Red-Green Government and eagerness to introduce air tax, to raise petrol prices and to raise diesel prices has developed a policy that is simply anti-Norrland. It is a policy that strikes against jobs and companies in my part of Sweden. My constituency will suffer very badly from this. The forest industries themselves have estimated that about 30 per cent of Swedish forests will be unprofitable to harvest if you introduce a kilometre tax. This means 35 billion in reduced export revenues. That is very much money, Madam President! It is as much money as it costs to pay for Swedish police for almost two years. The Kilometer tax will make the forest unprofitable in those parts of Sweden that have the longest distance. There the value of the forest will decrease, and the jobs will disappear. What does this government really have against Norrland? Does this government believe that you can tax northern Sweden just as much as you want without losing voters? I do not think so, Madam President. I think people will eventually have enough. The Minister does not wish to pre-empt the investigation and the further preparation of the case. However, when the government makes a final proposal, it is a bit late to start conducting this debate. My questions to the Minister of Finance remain. Does the Minister himself want to exempt the forest industries from this harmful tax? And does the Minister want to exempt Norrland from this harmful mileage tax, or is it the idea that it will strike at what is part of the backbone of the Swedish economy?
i-c2b267abace0d136-141	Madam President, I would like It is precisely in order to be able to take a position on these kinds of issues that we have asked the investigation to specifically analyse the consequences for individual industries and for different regions in Sweden. We can then take a position on exactly how the tax should be designed. About 23% – almost a quarter – of all road work carried out in Sweden by lorry is carried out by foreign hauliers. The idea with the road wear tax is that the foreign hauliers should also be involved and contribute to financing the Swedish infrastructure. I think there may be some points to this. Does Edward Riedl also think that there are points for foreign hauliers to be more involved in funding the Swedish infrastructure than they are today? Another point is that this way you can get better control of the transports in Sweden. We know that today there are some unfair and unfair competition from foreign hauliers who do not comply with the rules that exist on cabotage, for example, and which thus remove the bones of Swedish hauliers. This is a major problem, and the road user tax and the controls that come with it could be a way of reducing unwarranted competition. Does Edward Riedl share the view that a road-wear tax could work in this way and that it is important to work against illegal cabotage? We have also done this by strengthening the police's resources for work against illegal cabotage. Another idea of the mileage tax is to be able to stimulate more environmentally friendly modes of transport than lorries, such as railways and boats. At the same time, one should be aware that this possibility does not exist for all industries, nor in all parts of Sweden. This is also why the investigation will analyse how this tax would affect different industries and different parts of Sweden. However, it is too early to take a position on the proposals, as they do not yet exist. It is also a little difficult to discuss the proposals before we have them on the table, but I am happy to continue the debate.
i-c2b267abace0d136-149	Madam President, I would like Let me begin with what has often been highlighted, not least by the Social Democrats, about this kilometre tax helping to overcome foreign competition. By punishing Norrland, the burden is added to the burden of the heavily pressured haulage companies in Sweden. They must therefore pay additional taxes and, at the same time, be able to cope with competition. I do not believe this, Madam President. There are many good reasons why it will not work. Already today, there are several systems that can be used to level out competition with foreign hauliers. The problem is that you don't follow the rules. That is the big problem, not the lack of rules. We Moderates have instead proposed a GPS monitoring solution. As soon as the truck crosses the Swedish border you get a gps-puck in it. In this way, we can ensure that taxes are paid, charges paid, and that we behave and comply with the laws and regulations that we have in this country. Using new technologies to overcome illegal and often unfair foreign competition is a real policy. The policy proposed by the government will break the conditions for jobs and entrepreneurship in large parts of Sweden, not least in Norrland, where there are long distances to handle. This policy is quite damaging in this context. Moreover, there will be no solution to any of the problems that have been painted with unfair foreign competition. Madam President, I would like I ask myself a lot of questions as to why the Minister believes that those who do not comply with other laws will suddenly start to comply with this law. It is completely incomprehensible to me how one can think that another law that one does not follow would contribute to any change. No, let's use new and modern technology for surveillance. We must ensure that you pay taxes and charges, comply with laws and regulations when crossing the Swedish border. In this way we can get the Swedish roads in order. What the government proposes is just an additional burden for already hard-pressed hauliers and Swedish truck drivers. Madam President, I would like My question remains. I do not ask what is in the investigation, but does the Minister want to exempt the Swedish forest industries from this tax? Does the Minister want to exempt Norrland from this harmful tax? Or does the Minister, oa vset t what the investigation concludes, think that it is reasonable to use this harmful policy and direct the cape towards a large part of Sweden where there are already major competition challenges? The forest industry itself says that 30% could be unprofitable with this tax. This leads to 35 billion in reduced export revenues to Sweden. That's a lot of money. This is what the Swedish police cost for about two years. There is a lot of money lost with a damaging policy aimed at Norrland, which the Minister seems to want to implement. My questions remain. I would like an answer from the Minister to them, not what is in the investigation itself, but: what does the Minister himself want?
i-c2b267abace0d136-159	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl is talking about the government proposal. I would just like to remind you that the government has no proposal, and there is no proposal at all yet, but there is an investigation that is still working. What does the Minister want? Of course, the Minister wants there to be good opportunities to operate throughout the country. There should be good conditions for jobs and growth throughout the country. That is also why this government has invested in an expanded infrastructure. We have invested a lot of railway maintenance and road maintenance so that there will be good opportunities to transport not only people but also goods throughout Sweden. We have invested in the expansion of broadband in rural areas and increased the investments that existed before. We know how important broadband is for you to be able to operate and live and live throughout the country. We have invested in expanding colleges and universities throughout the country. Unlike the Moderate Government, we have not invested very much in the old universities of our large cities. We have ensured that there will be good education throughout the country. In addition, we have strengthened the resources for welfare so that there will be opportunities for good preschools, schools, elderly care and health care throughout the country. This government is investing in rural areas and in Norrland. Should there then be an exception for the forest industry and Norrland? It is an important issue, but before you put your foot down, we will of course see what proposal the investigation is making and what impact assessments are being made. I would, of course, first of all like to see the impact that this will have on Norrland and the forest industries before deciding exactly how the tax will be designed. I think it's important to have an analysis before deciding. Then Edward Riedl did not answer the question. Does he not think it would be good if foreign hauliers contributed more to paying for using the roads in Sweden given that 23% of the transport work is done with foreign trucks that do not tax in Sweden in the same way as the Swedish hauliers?
i-c2b267abace0d136-168	Madam President, I would like Let me first begin with what the Minister for Finance concluded with. As I said in my previous speech, I want the foreign hauliers to contribute more to the Swedish roads. I also want them to comply with Swedish laws and regulations and pay the taxes and fees that have been decided. That is why we Moderates have proposed a modernised legislation using modern technology. Even at the border one should get a GPS puck that manages the necessary monitoring. It is a modern policy that ensures that Swedish laws and regulations are maintained and taxes are collected. That policy exists. What the Minister for Finance is proposing is simply to place additional taxes on Swedish haulage companies. I still do not understand why those hauliers from abroad who do not comply with the laws and regulations that we have today and do not pay taxes and charges should follow one more rule. I cannot understand that, but the Minister will be happy to explain to me how this is to be done. Then I just want to say that it is a bit strange when the Minister talks about how much you invest in Norrland and how much you invest in Sweden. Let me ask you: in what way does the Minister think that a flight tax contributes to jobs and growth in Norrland? How does increased petrol tax contribute to jobs and growth in Norrland? How does increased diesel tax contribute to jobs and growth in Norrland? How does the kilometre tax contribute to jobs and growth in Norrland? We have long distances to deal with, and this government is doing everything it can to tax distances. It can in no way contribute to jobs and conditions in my part of Sweden. Let me be clear: during the time of the Alliance Government, a lot of money was invested at Umeå University, from 1.9 billion to 2.5 billion annually. Then my question to the Minister for Finance is: How much does Umeå University receive today? I can inform the Minister for Finance that there has not been so much effort. That's where she owes the answer. My questions remain.
i-c2b267abace0d136-174	Madam President, I would like It may not be possible to compare what has been done over eight years with what has been done over two and a half years. But the direction of this government's policy is clear. We are investing more in the new universities and higher education institutions compared to the old ones in relation to what is traditional moderate politics that was against these universities being set up outside the old traditional universities. It was the Moderates against. You were ironic and called it community colleges. It is good that Edward Riedl is now enthusiastic about Umeå University. At least it's a modernisation of a Moderate that I appreciate. I would, of course, only like to see a road-wear tax if it can be ensured that foreign hauliers pay it. I don't want to see a mile tax that makes it possible for foreign hauliers to escape. It is by far the most important foundation. A transponder solution can be such a solution, and then you could see that foreign hauliers pay all taxes and charges to be paid in Sweden, including if a kilometre tax is introduced. With such a system, foreign hauliers would be allowed to contribute more to the Swedish roads than with the Moderates' proposals. I think it is important that foreign hauliers are also involved and contribute. But, as I said, the investigation hasn't even arrived yet. We have not even begun to prepare the proposals. When and how it becomes a road wear tax and how it is designed, we will have good opportunities to discuss it in the future, and I look forward to that.
i-c2b267abace0d136-178	Madam President, I would like Christina Höj Larsen has asked Minister Åsa Regnér if she intends to take the initiative to amend the law on the care of young people, LVU, so that expulsions of forced persons under the law require approval by the social welfare committee. She has also asked whether the Government intends to take initiatives to ensure that the border police respect the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the provisions of the Social Services Act on the best interests of the child and whether the Government intends to take initiatives to ensure full compliance with the right to education and the right to care. The interpellation has been handed over to me to answer. A expulsion order may not be enforced if it puts the person to be expelled at risk of, inter alia, inhuman or degrading treatment. This is clear from both the Aliens Act and the European Convention. An examination of an application for asylum will examine both whether there are grounds for protection and whether there are exceptional circumstances or, in the case of children, particularly tender. When an expulsion order is to be enforced, any grounds for non-execution are also assessed. That the child's best interests are taken into account is stated in the Aliens Act, and a temporary residence permit can also be granted to those who need treatment under LVU. In addition, giving the Social Welfare Board a role as a review body for decisions taken by the Migration Board and the Migration Courts would be inappropriate. I therefore have no intention of taking any initiative to change the law on the care of young people in that part. As far as Christina Höj Larsen's second question is concerned, I assume that the Police Authority will comply with applicable legislation. In particular, the best interests of the child shall be taken into account in all actions involving children. According to the Aliens Act, the Social Welfare Board is obliged to disclose the information that Christina Höj Larsen refers to. The Finnish Immigration Service and the Migration Courts examine the cases, and if it concerns children, the current rules require the principle of the best interests of the child to be taken into account in the judicial review. It would, of course, be best if all returns were made on a voluntary basis. This is also the goal. However, if decisions on return are not followed, the matter will be handed over to the Police Authority. It cannot be optional to choose whether or not to comply with an expulsion decision. That is why, as a last resort, the police sometimes have to enforce certain decisions against the will of the people. I therefore do not intend to take any initiative on this issue. The right to schooling and the right to care are fully respected. It is important that everyone who lives in Sweden can have these fundamental rights respected. This does not mean, however, that a decision requiring a person to leave the country is not to be enforced. The Police Authority has the task of executing expulsion orders. The Authority has issued regulations and general advice on how to carry out this task in the light of ethical considerations. In these regulations there are, among other things, specified guidelines that children should not be searched for at school and that people who are in hospital should not be picked up there. I therefore do not intend to take any initiatives on this issue either. A functioning asylum system requires legal certainty and order and order in the asylum system. This means that the person who has grounds for protection should be allowed to stay and that persons who have been refused their application for a residence permit after an examination should return. As the executing authority, the police authority shall ultimately ensure that the decisions taken in the asylum process are also complied with and that the best interests of the child are specifically taken into account in all actions relating to children. The government is aware that this work faces many difficult situations, not least when children are affected, and we follow the work closely.
i-c2b267abace0d136-185	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Ygeman, for your answer. I had originally asked Minister for Children Åsa Regnér for an answer to how the government views children's perspectives and children's rights in connection with the border police's work on expulsions. We are standing here because the border police have requested information from the social services in Malmö about a number of people. In connection with this request, no individual investigations have been carried out into the child's best interests in either the social services or the Police Authority. That is the heart of the issue today. My interpellation has now been put on the table of the Minister for Home Affairs, and I thank you for your answer. He has given a series of news that everything is in order. Laws and rules are followed. There is nothing to worry about, although the Minister for the Interior must also admit that it is a difficult area where several different things should be weighed against each other. Here, at a little distance from the reality we are discussing, we could feel reassured by the government's message. But there is another reality where the calmness and comfort are quite far away. And I would like to tell you a little bit about that, Madam President. A woman in her 20s who is six months pregnant and has a two-and-a-half-year-old child had her information disclosed to the police by the Social Services in Malmö. The woman is a trafficking victim and suffers from severe but traumatic experiences. Social services have been fully aware of the woman's difficult situation in this matter, but have nevertheless not made an individual examination of the child's best interests and have provided the data to the police. The police have not tried either. A family of three adults and a two - year - old child were so frightened when they learned that the social services had released their information that they decided to leave their home and stayed out all night to avoid being taken by the police. Another family did not dare to stay at their address but moved out to a cabin in the forest, which means that the children now do not go to school. As regards schooling and preschool for children, this has been a recurring problem. Several people have testified that they are so afraid that the police will show up at school that they keep the children at home. Another family who had time booked in the social services stated that they do not dare to visit the social secretary for fear of the police, which makes it difficult or impossible to apply for emergency assistance through the social services. All these examples are taken from the JO notification that has been submitted from the Young Forum in Skåne, and it applies to all cases in Malmö. In any of these cases, neither police nor social services have conducted individual investigations into the best interests of the child. It is precisely this that is crucial for us to comply fully with the Convention on the Rights of the Child and to respect the rights of the child. I think the Minister for the Interior is well aware that words and signals are of great importance in politics. The signals that the Police Authority sends by saying that there are no more protected zones have consequences both for how authorities act and for how undocumented, permitless, people react. The escalation of the search for undocumented persons with expulsion or expulsion decisions initiated by the government also has consequences. The Minister for Home Affairs now says that he assumes that the Police Authority complies with applicable legislation. But does the Government think that the best interests of the child have been taken into account in the cases that I have just described when no individual trial of the best interests of the child has been carried out? How does he feel that this fits in with the Government's ambition to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child into law?
i-c2b267abace0d136-197	Madam President, I would like As Christina Höj Larsen is fully aware of neither can nor may I comment on individual cases or things that are being examined by the JO or other authorities. I am prevented from doing so by the form of government. I would like to point out that it is the Migration Agency and ultimately the Migration Court that decides whether you have the right to stay in Sweden. If you have protection reasons, you should be offered a sanctuary in Sweden. If you have no grounds for protection, you must return. There are no permitless people. Either you have the right to stay in Sweden, or you do not have the right to stay in Sweden. It is simply the case that Swedish law applies, and the authorities must live up to it and follow it.
i-c2b267abace0d136-200	Madam President, I would like I am fully aware that the Minister for the Interior cannot comment on individual cases. But individual cases are like when you see a dot on the wall; it's a dot. When we see many dots, it becomes a pattern. I think it is relevant and important that the Minister for the Interior also has the opportunity to comment on the reality in which we actually find ourselves. This is what reality looks like. I have not described particulars, but things that are a great pattern and are therefore structural problems. I think this is relevant and important for a Minister of the Interior to discuss. It was very reassuring to hear the Minister for the Interior say in his reply that the regulations and general advice issued by the Police Authority state that children should not be sought out at school and that people who are in hospital should not be picked up there. It goes against the statement by the border police that there are no more protected zones. The border police also believe that it has the right to request information from the municipality about where undocumented children go to preschool or school, if the information is needed to execute expulsion decisions. I must simply hope that the words of the Minister for the Interior are true: that there is still a basic right to school and to health care and that it is in no other way. However, there are provisions in the Social Services Act that indicate that the action of the border police is unlawful, at least when it concerns children. Section 2 of the Act states that the best interests of the child must be taken into account in all actions concerning children. The insecurity it creates for children and the risk that children do not dare to go to school or seek the care or assistance they need cannot be considered compatible with the principle of the best interests of the child. The Convention on the Rights of the Child, which the government wants to make Swedish law, also contradicts the actions of the border police. The prohibition of discrimination against a child is a fundamental part of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It includes discrimination on grounds of legal status. It is true that you can say that there are no permits without permission, but there are people who stay in Sweden even though they do not have permits, and these children are subject to exactly the same rights as all other children. It is something that we should be very proud of in Sweden, but it requires that we also do what is required for them to be able to access their rights. The actions of the border police make some of the most vulnerable people in our country even more vulnerable. Schools and preschools lose the important role they have as security and a fixed point for children who are suffering ill or in different ways are vulnerable. In the same way, social services are in contact with the most vulnerable in our society and often function as the ultimate safety net. Through the actions of the border police, social services as well as the school and child psychiatry are forced to be informants. There are several cases where the Aliens Act clashes with other legislation in a way that creates problems for children. The Minister of the Interior mentioned that the Aliens Act is above LVU, the Act on the Care of Young People. As a result, decisions have been taken in several cases involving the forced taking of children from parents who either abuse them or cause them to suffer harm have been forced to be expelled with the same perpetrator. This is not consistent with the best interests of the child. I wonder how the Minister for the Interior thinks it may be right for children to be expelled with people who cannot take care of them.
i-c2b267abace0d136-207	Madam President, I would like If I was unclear, I should now be very clear. It is not my word, Christina Raise Larsen's words or the border police's words that apply, but it is Swedish law that applies. It is interpreted by courts, not by ministers and not by members of parliament. I have no criticism of the border police or social services in Malmö. They have to comply with the law decided by the Parliament in this House. I would also like to make it clear that if it is up to the person who has no reason for asylum to choose whether or not to stay in Sweden, the whole basis for the reception of asylum will be threatened. The basis for the reception of asylum is that we assess whether or not you have a need for protection. If you have protection needs, you should stay in Sweden and be given the opportunity to work, get education and become a part of Swedish society. But if you don't have protection reasons, you have to go back. Otherwise, we do not have the opportunity – and will not have the opportunity – to be a country that takes a great responsibility to help people who flee from war, oppression and persecution. Anyone who appears to be on the basis of humanism and says that no one who has come to Sweden should have to return basically says that the reception of asylum cannot be carried out in the way we do today. It threatens the whole basis of Swedish reception to say that those who do not have asylum grounds should not have to return. It must not be a free choice. We should be generous to those who have protection needs, but those who do not have protection needs must return.
i-c2b267abace0d136-210	Madam President, I would like In fact, the Left Party also believes, like the Minister for the Interior, that anyone who is refused their asylum application should respect the decision and that expulsion should be carried out. It is, of course, an important part of the legal order. It is equally important, then, that the decision has been taken on a correct and legally secure basis. But the question is: How do we achieve voluntary and safe return? There is no evidence whatsoever to suggest that the type of practices that the government is now introducing will increase voluntary and safe return. On the contrary! In Norway, a similar reform has been carried out in the past as that government has now done; it has suspended the right to compensation, housing and more for people who are going to return. There it has been seen that it has not increased the rate of return. In fact, all it has done is increase the costs of municipalities, increase insecurity and make the situation much more difficult. It goes without saying that it is very difficult to communicate well with people when you do not know which park bench they live on. It also forces them, unfortunately, to do things that are not good in that situation. The Red Cross points out that this kind of return method is not working. Sweden is actually quite good at returning work with European measurements. Let's do things that work! Let us not jeopardise the rights of the most vulnerable in society, children and others!
i-c2b267abace0d136-213	Madam President, I would like I lack detailed knowledge of how Norway's legislation can be compared with Sweden's. But I know so much as that the Swedish legislation and the work of the Swedish Government have been very successful and that the return from Sweden in the previous year more than doubled compared to previous years. If Christina Höja Larsen and the Left Party now live up to the desire for regulated immigration and asylum policy and believe that those who have no reason to stay should return, they should be very happy about this and acknowledge and commend that we have got this paradigm shift and that more and more people are returning voluntarily. This is because we have made these changes, but it is also because more people are now returning under compulsion. If there is no possibility of forced return, fewer people will probably return voluntarily, and if you have a right to stay and stay here, it will probably reduce the driving forces to return.
i-c2b267abace0d136-214	Madam President, I would like Anti Avsan has asked me how it should be done to judge Swedish terror travelers in the immediate area, where the crimes have been committed, where, how and by whom evidence should be secured. Anti Avsan has also asked how Sweden can act to increase other countries' ability to secure evidence and judge persons for terrorism-related crime and how the ability to prosecute persons who have committed terrorism-related crimes in other countries in Sweden can increase. Finally, Mr Anti Avsan has asked what initiatives I and the government want to take in order for more terrorist travellers and other people to be held responsible for terrorism-related crime. At the government's initiative, regulation has been strengthened and a special criminal responsibility for terrorist travel and the reception of terrorism training has been introduced. Furthermore, an investigation by the government has proposed, among other things, a new penal provision on participation in armed conflict in support of a terrorist organisation. The report has been referred and the proposals are prepared in the Government Office. Within EU cooperation, we have agreed on a new terrorism directive, and the government has set up an investigation that is currently looking at what is needed to implement it. The directive contains several important innovations. For example, the terrorist offence is being extended in areas such as attacks on information systems. The criminalisation of terrorist financing is also being extended. In criminal investigations, evidence must be secured where it is. It is difficult to gather evidence from conflict areas. At the same time, in today's information society, there may be other opportunities to secure evidence. The government is working intensively to ensure that law enforcement authorities can effectively and legally secure evidence, such as those contained in electronic communications. The government has therefore commissioned an investigator to submit proposals for secret data reading as a new criminal procedural coercive measure. Secret data reading could be an effective method, among other things, for combating terrorist crime. The main responsibility for preventing and investigating terrorist crime lies with the Security Service. The Government sees a need for the agency to step up its work against terrorism and has therefore proposed in the budget proposal for 2017 that the Swedish Security Service be added SEK 650 million further during the period 2017– 2020. In many cases, well-functioning international cooperation is crucial for investigating terrorist crime. Sweden has good conditions for judicial cooperation with other countries, but this obviously requires the existence of a well-functioning judicial system in the states with which we cooperate. Here, Sweden can contribute through support to the judicial system as well as to actors and organisations working on these issues in the region. Various international processes and initiatives are currently under way for the accountability of the serious crimes committed in the conflicts in Syria and Iraq. At the UN, Sweden actively supports both the Syrian Investigation Commission and the independent mechanism to assist investigations and prosecutions in Syria for the most serious international crimes. Within the EU, Sweden is one of the Member States that is most clearly pushing the proposal for the establishment of an EU civilian crisis management operation to support and strengthen the Iraqi judiciary and security sector. Terrorism must be combated wherever it occurs. Anyone involved in brutal terrorism must be prosecuted and punished, and we must assume our responsibilities when our citizens leave to participate in these terrible crimes.
i-c2b267abace0d136-220	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of the Interior. The reason for my interpellation is the Minister of Interior's statement that foreign terrorist fighters should be convicted in the immediate vicinity. If so, it may be primarily Iraq and Syria. It is a wishful thinking that I too agree with. But the question is how this is to be realized. Therefore, there is reason to ask whether the Government and the Minister for the Interior are aware of the difficulties. I note that in his reply, the Minister for the Interior says that it is difficult to obtain evidence from the conflict areas. That is quite correct in my view. It may even be impossible in some cases for a number of reasons. The Minister for Home Affairs also mentions the need for a well-functioning judicial system in the states with which we cooperate. This case also mentions Iraq, where Sweden has a particular interest in pushing for the EU to establish a civilian crisis management operation to support the Iraqi judiciary and the security sector. What one wonders a little about is what the Minister for the Interior means by us contributing to support also to actors and organisations working on these issues in the region. I'd like the Minister of the Interior to answer that. The problem of terrorist offences and also war crimes is not the lack of criminal law rules. The problem is to be able to secure evidence so that persons who have committed crimes can be prosecuted and prosecuted. Then there are really only two different ways. The first is that evidence is secured on the spot within the framework of what is possible in other countries. There are obvious shortcomings in many cases. The second is that evidence is secured by Swedish measures, for example in technical systems. In this respect, I would like to say that Swedish capabilities have been reduced by the introduction of legislation on criminal liability for terrorist travellers because the Swedish Security Service is being cut off from the possibility of obtaining intelligence information when preliminary investigation has begun. We believe that the possibility of obtaining intelligence should be restored, but the government has not taken any initiatives there. Many politicians seem to believe that the fight against terrorism is about proposing as many new criminal law rules as possible. I see no reason whatsoever to be against further criminalisations that play a role. But it is also a question of getting the rules operational in real life. Then it is again about the possibility of securing evidence. Let me just briefly mention what the problem picture looks like. There is a database for global terrorism that has recorded some 140 000 terrorist acts. In 2000, 3,329 people died as a result of terrorism, while in 2014 the figure was 32,685 deceased. This means that the number of victims of terrorism per year has increased nine times over the last 15 years. This makes it a major international problem.
i-c2b267abace0d136-228	Madam President, I would like I just want to start by correcting the description. It sounded on Anti Avsan that the government would have surrounded the Security Service's ability to access signal intelligence. That is quite wrong, of course. We have not changed anything in that framework. What we have done is we have criminalised terrorist war voyages, which, during the time of the Moderates in government, were not criminalised. With the law on signal reconnaissance passed by the Moderates themselves in this House, information from the signal reconnaissance operation must not be used during the pre-trial investigation. It is the same restriction as applies to the intelligence information we obtain from the intelligence services of other countries. The alternative would be to do as the former moderate-led government and not criminalize the terrorist war crime. I think that would have been a very bad way to go. It is only in cases where preliminary investigation into terrorist war crimes is initiated that the possibilities are limited. The only difference is that it is now criminalized. During the time of the Moderates, it wasn't criminalized. Then Anti Avsan lines up the difficulties in prosecuting those guilty of terrorist offences abroad and, above all, in conflict zones. I agree fundamentally with the fact that these difficulties exist. There is no lack of difficulty in dealing with this type of crime. It is crime that takes place under appalling conditions far away where it is difficult to collect the white tn, difficult to interrogate witnesses and difficult to gather technical evidence. All those difficulties are true. But it is still the case with regard to that part of the technical evidence that there are better opportunities to collect it in the area where the crime has been committed than it does to collect it in Sweden. It is very difficult to question witnesses who are in Iraq in Sweden. It is very difficult to do a crime scene investigation in Iraq if you are in Sweden. That is why I believe that the international community, the European Union and Sweden must support the efforts made to prosecute people for the terrible crimes there. Anti Avsan asks me: What kind of support could we provide? This could include technical expertise, technical equipment, training, financial assistance and additional support measures to help and build up a functioning judicial system. We know that when there has been war and conflict, there are also major shortcomings in all parts of the judiciary. It concerns the human rights situation, the technical capacity and the legal support. However, we must not shy away from all these difficulties and shortcomings. The main objective must be that those who have done these terrible acts should be able to be held accountable primarily there in the immediate vicinity. Should it be the case that it fails and they return to Sweden, they should of course be held to account here for the crimes that can be proved. In that I think both me and Anti Avsan agree.
i-c2b267abace0d136-237	Madam President, I would like With regard to the criminalisation of terrorist fighters, I want to be clear. It is based on a binding security resolution. This is something that Sweden is also obliged to introduce as legislation for that reason. We Moderates pushed for the government to do so as soon as possible. In the investigation that forms the basis of the legislation, the investigator pointed to the consistency of the legislation if it does not deal with the possibility for the Security Service to obtain intelligence information. The government did not then, and neither has the government now. The description from the Minister for Home Affairs is a little strange when you portray it as having done something that in fact has become worse in several respects. It has reduced the ability of the Security Service to act against this type of crime. If it is not enough with what was in the investigation, it must be further investigated so that it can be put in place, so that we do not lose our ability when we introduce new criminal law provisions. With regard to the challenges in the international field, Sweden has a unique opportunity because we have a seat in the Security Council. The Security Council and the Counter-Terrorism Committee are working extensively to combat terrorism. The most fundamental thing there is to ensure that different countries in the world implement and implement the binding Security Council resolutions in the field of terrorism. That is how we create a network that forms the basis for how we can work against terrorism in the world. There the government has the opportunity to make a difference, which I hope will be done. If we look at Iraq, there is an opportunity for the government and the Minister for the Interior to improve on the problems of the Iraqi judicial system. It's in open sources at the UN. The problem with the Iraqi legal system is that you do not secure evidence in the way that we are used to doing in Sweden and others what you might call Western countries. In Iraq, the judicial system and the judicial system are essentially recognition-based. The evidence secured in a recognition-based system is often not good enough to convict people of serious crimes. We have an interest in doing this in Sweden, and there are also other Western countries that have the same strong interest in ensuring that the terrorist fighters who come from their respective countries are prosecuted. I can mention that I was at a conference a few weeks ago organised by the UN. It was the first of its kind for parliamentarians from the Arab states. There is some mistrust of the will of the rest of the world to overcome the problem, which mainly affects Iraq and other countries. Five countries in the world are the most affected by terrorism, including Syria and Iraq. There, 78% of all acts of terrorism are committed. It is also where the vast majority of people are killed as a result of such crimes. If we can help Iraq, then it is very good, and if it also leads to such results that it implements the binding resolutions of the Security Council and gets help to improve the quality of its judicial system, it is something that benefits Sweden, the European Union and all countries in the world, but also the countries that are most affected. At the same time, their confidence in our genuine willingness to address these problems increases.
i-c2b267abace0d136-245	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say something about the two allegations about terrorist war travel: there is no basis for the claim that the changes that we have brought about would impair our ability. There is a desire from certain authorities to change the system of things decided by the Riksdag, but in their statements and referrals all these authorities have found that they prefer this system to that which prevailed when the Moderates ruled Sweden. It is a bit strong to say, after having been in power for eight years, that the Moderates were driving the development of the issue. I can tell you what it looked like on Rosenbad when I got there: It was completely shiny. There wasn't a suggestion. There wasn't a sketch. There was no initiative. There was nothing. If Anti Avsan is interested in googling, he can google on Parliament's website and see that we Social Democrats made proposals to criminalise terrorist war trips during the time when the Moderates were in charge of the government of this country. I think that one should be careful to argue that one has pushed for development when one could have brought about legislation itself. We can leave it aside. Legislation is in place. I believe that, within the framework of existing legislation, we will be able to effectively combat terrorist war travellers. After we got the law in place and after the development in the region, travel from Sweden has basically ceased. That is very pleasing. Anti Avsan expresses the international knowledge that exists about the shortcomings of Iraq's judicial system. I mainly share the description of Anti Avsan. That is why we need to support development in every way we can. It won't be easy. It is extremely difficult to start from a country where basically the whole legal system is broken by war and compare it with the legal system of a country like Sweden, which has not had war for several hundred years. It is quite obvious that it is much easier to build up an ability in Sweden than it is in Iraq. However, this must not keep us from trying to help and support. I therefore welcome the fact that Anti Avsan and I share the same view in this case. We need to support the justice system in Iraq. It is good if we can get better evidence, and it is good if we can get convictions in Iraq too. It is good that there is broad parliamentary support for this. I intend to continue to take initiatives within the framework of EU cooperation and within the framework of the Swedish government's work in order to support the judicial system and have more prosecutions.
i-c2b267abace0d136-251	Madam President, I would like In the beginning and in conclusion of this part, I can say that, with regard to criminalisation, we were in complete agreement. However, as the government and the Minister for the Interior also realise, understand and know, things need to be investigated. When the investigation was completed, I debated the matter with the Minister for Home Affairs and asked when the legislation would come. I have heard representatives of the Security Service say that they have a reduced ability after being cut off from the possibility of receiving intelligence information. However, since the Minister for the Interior does not say a word about this, I assume that he and the Government have no intention of doing anything about it. We have a party motion on terrorism with 26 concrete proposals. Everything starts where most things start, namely in those exclusion areas where we have particularly high crime, where law-abiding people feel that the judiciary is failing and where people lose faith in the police and perhaps also in the judiciary in general. Extensive international research shows that such very negative conditions are a strong breeding ground for terrorism and radicalisation. We can start there so that we prevent people from getting ideas of this kind that lead to them committing terrorist attacks and perhaps, at worst, going down to Syria, Iraq or other countries to fight for terrorist organisations. It is good that travel has decreased. It's very small now compared to before. The fact remains, however, that there is much more to be done in this area, and I hope that the Minister for the Interior will agree with that.
i-c2b267abace0d136-255	Madam President, I would like I will give Mr Avsan the right to have and to have concerns from the Security Service about how the new law would be applied. In the joint work we had between the four bourgeois parties and the government, the common conclusion was also that it is important to follow up whether these fears should be realised or whether it would be possible to organize the work in such a way that they simply did not become true and that instead one could maintain a sharp ability. It is almost time to make this assessment so that we can ensure that the law enforcement authorities have the tools to combat international terrorism. I share Mr Avsan's view that greater efforts need to be made in the affected areas. It is therefore gratifying that we have reversed the trend in which the problems have become more and more in the last ten years to the fact that we are beginning to see positive results. We have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 13 years, and we have turned school developments up in Timss, PISA and upper secondary school qualifications. However, much remains to be done both in terms of the work of law enforcement authorities and in terms of social development. We need greater investment in the socially vulnerable areas, greater confidence in the future and more young people there to feel involved in the positive development of society. If we succeed in doing so, we will remove the breeding ground for recruiters both in the field of terrorism and in the area of organised crime. In this respect, I believe I have the support of the Anti Avsans and Moderates to continue their work.
i-c2b267abace0d136-259	Madam President, I would like Ellen Juntti has asked me what measures I intend to take to reduce crime, to restore security and to ensure that women are protected from their jobs in Nordstan. It is, of course, totally unacceptable if gangs of young people commit crimes and create insecurity in Nordstan. The Gothenburg police are acting strongly against the problems. According to the Police Authority, the situation is gradually improving, but it is clear that there are continuing challenges. A number of crime prevention measures have been taken by the Police Authority. One example is enhanced police presence in crime-related times and places. Another example is the project Safe in Store, which is based on collaboration with security guards and shop controllers to prevent thefts and shoplifting. The initiative has led to the release of police resources for an increased presence. The Police Authority also collaborates with Nordstan's Association and the municipality to make the area safer. But more can and must be done, of course, also by actors other than the Police Authority. No worker should have to endure threats, violence or harassment at his or her workplace. The Swedish Work Environment Authority's regulations therefore place clear demands on risk prevention measures by employers. An ambitious health and safety policy is also a high priority for the government. The resources in the area of health and safety at work have therefore been increased by over SEK 100 million per year during the term of office. The Government has also announced increases to the Swedish Police Agency for a total of over SEK 2 billion during the period 2017–2020, which is likely to benefit the Gothenburg Police. I will also continue to monitor the measures taken by the Police Authority, in cooperation with other actors, so that citizens can feel safe in the inner city of Gothenburg.
i-c2b267abace0d136-264	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of the Interior, for your answer. I've made this interpellation because there are incredibly big problems in Nordstan. That's what the police say, and that basically says every person I've talked to. Serious crime is taking place there; it is serious violent crime and sexual harassment. Only now in February there was a big knife fight with 40 boys and young men involved. Three of them were stabbed. What is also very serious is that there are large groups of unaccompanied refugee children – it is police officers who say that it is that category – who sexually molest young girls, including girls who work in different stores late in the evenings. Then there'll be big gangs and sexually molesting them. A lot of these girls don't even want to work anymore. They're thinking about quitting. This is really serious. The girls also say that it happens so often that they think that there is hardly any point in reporting anymore. So it has become everyday for them. In the latest Police magazine, which came in early February, police officers say that there are large crowds of unaccompanied minors and that the whole of Nordstan is a greenhouse for crime. Their assessment is that in the future an increasing number of new arrivals will likely establish themselves in the gangs. This is very serious. These people have no respect for the police whatsoever. Another article in the Police magazine is about a police patrol that was surrounded by about 50 unaccompanied persons who went right up to the police and beat one of them up. It was just a good thing the cops got away without getting any more hurt. They were helped by various security guards. Local police in Nordstan say she thinks this is going to grow. The Minister for the Interior gave an interesting answer about enhanced police presence, Trygg in the store, the Association and the municipality. Here it should be mentioned that the Commissioner for Social Democrats in Gothenburg has proposed to start with a cultural project in Nordstan. I think it is rather naive to think that it is a way of tackling crime. In the light of the answer, it seems that the responsibility lies with everyone except the perpetrators. Everyone else is gonna fix this. I would like to know what Anders Ygeman intends to do to ensure that this problem disappears. And the people who commit these crimes, what are you going to do about them on the government's side?
i-c2b267abace0d136-273	Madam President, I would like In general, I replied to this in my interpellation response. There is positive work in Gothenburg and the Gothenburg police. This means that the number of notifications in Nordstan has decreased by 40 to 50 percent. It has been possible to free resources from the police and be present through a very good preventive work by the traders in Nordstan in cooperation with the police. Ellen Juntti asks me what will happen to those who commit crimes in Nordstan. My answer is simple: they must be prosecuted. If you're guilty of the crime that Ellen Juntti describes, you'll end up behind bars.
i-c2b267abace0d136-276	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. Yes, it may seem that the number of notifications has fallen. Sure, it could be because there's been more cops and it's going in the right direction. But it may also be because of what the young girls say: There is no point in reporting anymore. There's no point, because nothing's happening. It'll be shut down right away. It makes no sense, because it happens so terribly often that it doesn't matter. The Crime Prevention Council came up with a recent study that says that people are significantly insecure and that confidence in the police is falling. It's no wonder when the police can't get to places where crimes have been committed and investigations are basically closed down before they're started. It is also the case that the xual crimes have increased sharply. The number of elderly people has increased by 13 percent in a year. This is very serious and indicates that the problems are very large, as in Nordstan. We Moderates have proposed a zone ban that would fit very well in Nordstan. There is such a zone ban in Denmark that works well. This means that the police should be able to ban criminals who spread insecurity from entering at all. It would apply immediately, and it would be punishable not to obey it. It could be banned for up to three months, and the decision could be appealed to a court. This proposal has been rejected directly by Ygeman. From what I understand, he has said that it will have no effect because the possibility already exists in the police law. But that's not true, because what's on the police law is temporary. This means that we could ban for three months. The chief police officer of Storgöteborg, Erik Nord, has said that he believes that this could be an effective and positive tool for the police. The Commissioner for Police in Malmö, Stefan Sintéus, has also said so. He's been calling for this and saying it would be good. That is why my question is on what grounds Ygeman dismisses this proposal. Does he not trust that both North and Sintéus can make good judgments?
i-c2b267abace0d136-284	Madam President, I would like Let me be clear: the police in Gothenburg are pushing back crime in Nordstan. It's not good there, but it's much better than it was before. It is true that Sweden's security is falling, according to the latest national security survey. But it's going down by a few percent. If it continues to sink, there is a risk that it will be back at the same level as when the Moderates ruled Sweden. That's the levels we're talking about. Then Ellen Juntti makes quite a fab about the proposal that the Moderates have sketchily called zone bans. That's not at all what you say, Ellen Juntti. That is not at all how it works in Denmark. That's not how it works in Holland at all. That's not how it works in Norway at all. There are three different proposals – and the experience of Denmark is not at all unequivocally positive. If you compare with Denmark, you can see that much of the possibilities available in Danish legislation are those contained in the Swedish Police Act. It is true that this is not the same as in the Moderates' proposal, but it is because the Moderates' proposal is not the same as in Denmark, Holland or Norway. These are different proposals. One cannot compare apples, pears and watermelons and then wonder why someone is against bananas. These are simply different proposals. You can, with the support of the Swedish Police Act, reject someone from a place because it interferes with the order. I think that is a good thing, and I'm sure it can be used more. You can also ban people from being in a certain place because they risk disturbing the order. It will soon become the 24th section of the Police Act. By this I mean that I find it difficult to see what the Moderates' proposal, in the form it has been presented, could add to Swedish legislation.
i-c2b267abace0d136-290	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Home Secretary. We have different views on the zone ban. I think it would be an effective tool for the police, including in Nordstan, in other shopping centres and in squares where disorderly people mess it up and destroy ordinary people. Apparently, police area managers in both Gothenburg and Malmö think so. I trust that they actually know a lot about this. But I want to go back to the issue of attacks on police officers. We Moderates want to see a sharpening here. I took an example and can also mention what happened in Rinkeby the other day. As I said, we want to tighten the penalties, and I know that the government has set up an investigation-- that's good. What is bad is that it takes a very long time: The report will not be reported until summer 2018. Then it will be prepared in different ways, so the legislation may be in place in 2019 or even later. We Moderates invest ten times as much as the government invests in the police during 2017. The efforts made by the government come mainly after the 2018 elections. So we Moderates want zone bans, stricter penalties and more police officers, and we also want to expel more criminals. What does the government think about more criminals being expelled?
i-c2b267abace0d136-294	Mrs. Old President! This is going to be a big deal, but we're going to try to figure out what's right. It is true that the government has set up an investigation to look at the penalty rates for the protection of blue light personnel. It is true that an investigation in Sweden takes one to one and a half years. What if, during the eight years they were responsible for the area, the Moderates themselves had initiated an investigation or a change of law? Then the legislation could have already been in place, or we could have had an investigation proposal. But the Moderates didn't. Ellen Juntti claims that the Moderates invest ten times more than the government in the police force in 2017. That's a lie! That distinguishes 4% between you and our police budget. That's the truth. We are providing funds to hire more police officers and more civilian employees. We are spending over 2 billion in this budget period on hiring more police officers. We need to tighten up legislation in many areas. The government has tightened the legislation against organised crime in over 30 cases; all of them have voted in favour here in Parliament. I'm grateful for that. We will continue to tighten up the legislation. We will continue to employ more police officers, and we will have smarter tools in place. This will continue to make Sweden safer.
i-c2b267abace0d136-299	Mrs. Old President! Lars Hjälmered has asked if I am prepared to take measures to meet Moderates' demands for more police officers to meet the needs of Gothenburg and other locations in Sweden. One of the starting points of the new Police Authority is a police closer to the citizens. This means that local work should be the basis of the agency's activities, with increased presence and accessibility based on local conditions and needs. The Agency has carried out a transfer of resources to local police areas, a work that will continue this year. However, the political authority's broad mandate represents a difficult balance in terms of resource allocation between different urgent tasks and geographical areas. In order to give the Police Authority the opportunity to increase the number of employees, the government has proposed and announced additions to the Police Authority of over SEK 2 billion. However, it is up to the Police Authority itself to decide which competence should be recruited. To date, the Agency has decided to increase the number of police officers by 1,500, and the number of civilian employees increased by more than 1,000 in 2016. This means that within a few years the agency will have more than 30 000 employees, who can work together to prevent and combat crime. So we are spending more money on the police than ever before, and there are more police employees in Sweden than ever before. However, it is the Police Authority that decides how the agency's resources are to be allocated internally within the organisation and what measures need to be taken to carry out the tasks of the agency. In line with this, the National Police Commissioner has recently announced a halt to employment in the national departments in order to give priority to local police work. I will continue to monitor closely how the Police Authority uses its resource reinforcements and how it works to secure the intentions of police reform.
i-c2b267abace0d136-306	Mrs. Old President! Anders Ygeman concluded the previous debate with the fact that the Alliance Government could have done more – I agree. We did a lot, but of course we could have done more. But reality has also changed over the last two and a half years, when the present government has been in place, at least in the case of gang shootings, for example. This interpellation has been made by Lars Helmered because more police officers are needed in Gothenburg. For example, he has mentioned the police area in southern Gothenburg, where Landvetter, Mölndal, Askim, Frölunda and Tynnered are included. Some 200,000 people live in this area. For example Frölunda and Tynnered are rather burdened with serious crime. There's supposed to be 200 cops there, that's supposed to be, but today there's only 180. There's quite a difference. It may not sound so much, but 20 fewer than it should be makes a big difference. I live in Landvetter myself, and it's pretty big. I basically never see a police car there at all. Only in the last few months have there been serious violent crimes, robberies and scores of thefts. There'd be a lot of cops there. We Moderates have suggested that there should be at least 2,000 new police officers. We have also budgeted for a higher salary for the police. The government, as Ygeman says, has budgeted 2 billion, but most of that money comes after the 2018 elections. I also said in the previous debate that insecurity is increasing, and the police are in crisis. For example, the National Security Survey shows that 30 percent of women are afraid in their own residential area. It's terrible! Trust in the police is decreasing, and that's no wonder. When serious crimes are committed, the police will not come, or you will be very late in far too many cases. When it comes to investigations, people testify that they hardly have time to make a report until the next day they are informed by post that the investigation is closed despite the fact that there is information to go on and witnesses who could be heard. Then it goes without saying that confidence in the police is falling. Ygeman also says that today there are very many police officers and civilian employees in Sweden. This may be the case, but there are also considerably more people in Sweden. Thus, according to the police magazine a while ago, there are fewer police officers per inhabitant than ever before. It's very bad. It's an emergency. What does Ygeman intend to do to ensure that there are more police officers and that they stay in the job so that people in Sweden get better security than now?
i-c2b267abace0d136-314	Mrs. Old President! Just so that we have the figures clear: There have never been more police employees in Sweden than now. Not at any time during a moderate government has more money been spent on the police than now. Never before have there been so many police employees as now. On the other hand, it is true that we have a little too few police graduates, but that is because police training takes two and a half years, and the dimensioning we now have is what the moderate-led government did. It is you who are responsible for dimensioning, Ellen Juntti, not me. We're spending more money on the police. We increase police resources by an additional SEK 2 billion. To this will be added the major investments in the Swedish Security Service that we will make in the coming years with over 650 million SEK. During the time I have served as Minister of Home Affairs, we have also increased the police budget. That is why we now have more police resources than ever before. That is why we now have more police employees than ever before. When Ellen Juntti asks me what to do, my answer is very simple: We will continue. There will be more police officers, more police employees and better regulation. But it is the Police Authority itself that will decide the mix between police officers and civilian employees. It is the Police Authority itself that will decide where in the country they should be placed and how they should act. We have faith in the Police Authority one and the hardworking 29 000– 30 000 police officers around the country. Unlike how Ellen Juntti describes it, they usually do heroic work to secure people's security.
i-c2b267abace0d136-319	Mrs. Old President! The Ygeman Government addresses the number of police employees, both police officers and civilian employees. His figures are probably correct, but he does not say a word about how many people there are in Sweden. We just passed the $10 million mark. The number of people in Sweden must also be taken into account. It's increased considerably. The number of police officers or police employees per inhabitant is interesting. Let me get back to what happened in Rinkeby a few days ago. It is totally unacceptable for policemen to be attacked in this way and for young people to throw stones at them. It's almost on the verge of attempted murder. Getting a big gauntlet in your head can be very dangerous. In Rinkeby, there were also about thirty cars that were set on fire, and shops were looted. In addition to that, innocent people were beaten and robbed. That is totally unacceptable. These young people are not innocent cubs who have too little to do, but many are gross criminals. Many are criminals at the age of 15 - 16. We Moderates want to remove the penalty discount for those aged 18 to 21. We believe that an adult should be punished as an adult. I know this is Morgan Johansson's department, but I assume you will cooperate. The Alliance government took the initiative, inter alia, to review the transport of detainees in order to streamline police duties. Last week, the Riksdag decided that the Prison Service will have the primary responsibility and perform most of these transports. That's great, because it'll relieve the police. But we also have an announcement to the government that the government will resume the investigation that we set up in the alliance government to review what other tasks could be refined, so that other authorities or actors could do certain tasks that the police now have. I would like to know when the government will resume this investigation to relieve the police of their duties. As I said, there is an announcement. Then I have to correct Anders Ygeman when he claims that I do not appreciate the police's work. I've worked 30 years as a cop myself. I know what an incredibly hard, hard, hard job it is. If anyone has any sense of appreciation for their job, it's actually me. I know what it's like to stand alone with a patrol somewhere in the dark and be surrounded by dangerous people trying to attack you. I've felt that fear and I know exactly what it's like. If anyone appreciates their work, it's me.
i-c2b267abace0d136-326	Mrs. Old President! Ellen Juntti asks when we're going to resume the investigation into reindeer farming. We won't. Instead of investigating things, we're doing them. That is why, as Ellen Juntti himself pointed out, we are now removing transport and that part of the handrail from the police. We will continue to remove the animals from the county administrative board. All these things that the investigation had to investigate, we will carry out. If Ellen Juntti herself reads the investigation, she will see that that is also the investigator's conclusion. There is no need for further investigations; decisions are needed. Those decisions deliver the government. I can tell Ellen Juntti that in addition to the proposals that have been investigated, there will be more proposals for the clean-up of police operations. If Ellen Juntti is proud of the work done by 30 000 police officers in Sweden, it would be nice if she expressed it from time to time in the Parliament's pulpit. Then I share Ellen Junttis disgust with those who throw stones in northern Stockholm, but I find it difficult to understand what it has to do with the debate about the number of police officers in Gothenburg.
i-c2b267abace0d136-329	Mrs. Old President! The Ygeman Government is asking if I appreciate the police work. It is a rather unnecessary issue, because I mentioned this in my previous speech. I really appreciate their work, and I also know how dangerous, demanding and difficult it is. I really appreciate it. It is good that there are suggestions on how to further refine the police's mission. Then the question is: When is it coming? I hope it will come quite soon, because the situation is urgent. This is connected to the question of more police officers. If you relieve the police of unnecessary data, there will be more police officers in the streets and squares. The biggest threat I see in terms of crime at present is the young gang criminals. They're the biggest threat. Ordinary people hardly dare to go out in many situations. As I said before, 30% of women are afraid to go into their own residential area. This is simply appalling. The criminals who throw stones and attack innocent people must be removed from the streets and squares. We want stricter penalties. Finally, I thank Minister Ygeman for the debate. Again, I appreciate the work of the police. The government should not doubt it for one second.
i-c2b267abace0d136-334	Mrs. Old President! Good, I thank you for that! I am absolutely convinced that we will be able to do more to support these hard-working police officers in their work.
i-c2b267abace0d136-335	Mrs. Old President! Edward Riedl has asked me what measures I intend to take to restore security and confidence in the police of shopkeepers. Store owners and other entrepreneurs should of course feel safe in the assurance that the crimes they report are handled by the Police Authority. Investigating crime is one of the political authorities' core tasks, and it is of great importance to people's confidence in the rule of law. It is therefore important that criminal investigations are given high priority. That message has been conveyed by the government to the Police Authority on several occasions. In order to improve the conditions for the criminal investigation work, the Government decided a couple of weeks ago on a joint mission to the Police and the Prosecutor's Office. The assignment means that prosecutors are placed with the Police Authority to assist for some time the police's investigators and investigators in, among other things, numerous criminal matters such as shoplifting. In order to relieve the burden of investigative activities, the task is also to set up special investigation teams to deal with older cases. In order for fewer crimes to be committed, there is a need to develop society's efforts to prevent crime, not only in the judicial system but also among other actors, such as entrepreneurs. We will create better conditions for this work. The government has therefore launched an initiative on crime prevention, and a national coordinator will be appointed. The preventive activities of the Crime Prevention Council have also been strengthened, and the Government has provided funds for the establishment of regional crime prevention coordinators at the county administrative boards. All in all, it is an additional SEK 40 million per year to the crime prevention work. I believe that the measures now being taken by the government will contribute to a better investigation and increased pressure on crime prevention and security-building measures throughout society, which will also benefit shop owners.
i-c2b267abace0d136-340	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Every year, approximately 2 million crimes of theft are committed in Swedish stores. The total value of what is stolen is SEK 4.6 billion. It's a huge amount of money stolen from our stores. Approximately 2% of these crimes are reported. Most of it is discovered long after the time of theft. Then it's no use filing a police report. You don't have to do that either to get insurance money. Of these 2%, about three out of ten cases lead to some form of judgment or punishment. In many cases, the police close the cases if it is not the case that the offender is in principle caught in the act. But even if the offender is caught in the act and there is photo evidence via surveillance cameras, not least in grocery stores, it can be observed that about half of those cases are closed anyway. There are various reasons for this. The person may have been guilty of more serious crimes; then you don't think this is worth investigating. The penalty is too low. The person may be under 18 years of age. Very often, according to the Swedish Commerce Federation, the police write of the case that the offender is not found, despite having the offender arrested on site. Mrs. Old President! Since Anders Ygeman became Minister for the Swedish Police, we have seen an alarming trend: the police are closing more and more cases. And, as if it weren't bad enough, among the small number of people who are convicted, even fewer pay their fines. 2% of the crimes are reported to the police. Seven out of ten cases do not result in a penalty. And among the small number left there are about two out of ten paying their fines. If you were a mathematician, you could calculate the small number. So there is a tiny missing part of all the theft crimes committed in stores that lead to someone being convicted. And of the few who are convicted, few actually pay or stand up for what they have done. Mrs. Old President! As Minister responsible, Anders Ygeman cannot in any way be satisfied with this. I have seen Anders Ygeman in opposition and know that Anders Ygeman often has a lot of views. But since he became responsible for the Swedish police, little has happened in a positive direction, but very much in a negative direction. How does the Minister want to restore confidence in the Swedish police? Perhaps the Social Democrats would take some of the proposals from the Moderates. It's about paying the cops a little better and making sure they get more colleagues. These are proposals that we Moderates want to implement. It is part of restoring confidence in the Swedish police. It is therefore a question of giving them the opportunity to do their job and receive a fair salary for the work they do. Mrs. Old President! It is very possible that Anders Ygeman will do as he usually does: blame Beatrice Ask, who was a minister before, and try to escape his own responsibility as a minister responsible for the Swedish police. But let's see! Maybe Anders Ygeman comes with some good things here. At least I hope so.
i-c2b267abace0d136-347	Mrs. Old President! I would like to begin by thanking Edward Riedl for the question. I myself have a background as a shopkeeper, so these are issues that are close to my heart. Let me also say that we agree that the police should have good and better working conditions and that more police are needed! It is good that we can agree on these fundamentals. Then I think you should split it into two parts. Better crime prevention is needed. It is simply a matter of ensuring that the theft does not take place at all. There are encouraging examples and good projects where shop theft has been greatly reduced both in Stockholm and Gothenburg. That's good. We also see that about twice as many crimes are solved in this category as in the case of crime at large in society. That is also positive. Then we need increased action against theft leagues. It is not only Swedish citizens who are guilty of these crimes. There is a degree of organized foreign theft leagues. Reger no one has, among other things, introduced ID requirements for ferries, which makes it easier for the police to follow which foreign citizens are on their way to Sweden and to be able to take the right action. I have personally been on site in Georgia, where some of theft leagues originate. This applies, in particular, to theft of cosmetics and cosmetic products. I think there are about 68 tonnes of packages going from Sweden to Georgia in that respect. We need measures to strangle the possibility of transporting the stolen goods. But above all, we have got a Georgian policeman at the Georgian Embassy in Stockholm, which means that we can quickly identify these people, arrest them and prosecute them. We now have much better cooperation with Georgia in this regard. We need to develop our cooperation with a couple of other countries where we see similar problems with the over-representation of theft leagues. It is true, as Edward Riedl says, that we have a problem with a number of Swedish citizens who have a large number of fines that they do not pay. We need a reform of that system. If you have large debts – I think it is in the order of 400 individuals who have more than ten unpaid fines – you will in practice be immune to additional financial penalties. That is why a reform of the system is needed, so that everyone guilty of crime is effectively punished.
i-c2b267abace0d136-352	Mrs. Old President! The Swedish Trade Report is frightening reading, not least from what I was trying to describe. It is a very small part of the theft crimes in the store that are reported, for the simple reason that you do not discover the crimes just when they are committed. It is about 2 per cent of the crimes committed in stores that are reported to the police, according to the Swedish Commerce Federation. The minister can shake his head as much as he wants. Maybe he's better than the Swedish Commerce Federation. At least I trust their figures in this respect. So it's a very small part. And in that part, there are seven out of ten cases that do not result in any kind of penalty. And when it comes to the small, small part that remains, Madam President, three out of ten actually pay their fine. This undermines confidence in the rule of law. Here the state should be strong and ensure that people can trust it when they actually need it. I understand the disillusionment you feel in many stores. You don't get the help of society that you actually have the right to get. This is frightening reading. What makes it even worse, Madam President, is that it has become worse since Anders Ygeman became Minister with responsibility for Swedish police. More and more of these cases are being closed. They don't lead to anything. According to the Swedish Commerce Federation, cases are closed even though an offender has been arrested on site. This is a development for which Anders Ygeman is responsible. I know he thinks it's really hard to be responsible and to answer for what's his responsibility. Preferably, he wants to blame the former Minister of Justice. But that is not possible, because this is a development that has taken place during Anders Ygeman's time as Minister of the Interior and responsible for the Swedish police. Mrs. Old President! There are things to do. We Moderates have proposed 2,000 more police officers. Then the police will have more colleagues and better opportunities to investigate the major crimes. They can ensure order and order, but they can also ensure that this type of mass crime, which risks undermining confidence in the rule of law in the long term, can be dealt with and overcome. If you get more colleagues in Swedish police, it is possible. In addition, the Swedish police do a very good job and deserve better and higher wages, which is possible with the Moderate proposals. On average, it's about $2,000 per cop. These are good proposals, and Anders Ygeman could say that this is something we can do. Then we would have better opportunities to deal with it. But Anders Ygeman doesn't say that, Madam President. I think that is a pity, because more police officers and better paid police officers are needed if we are to reverse the very negative trend and restore confidence in the Swedish rule of law in this type of mass crime.
i-c2b267abace0d136-358	Mrs. Old President! I do not know whether Edward Riedl has written speeches in this debate. In that case, it is unusual for Edward Riedl. Firstly, I think it is a good proposal, both to improve the working conditions of the police and to have more police officers. I have said that in my previous reply, and that is still the case. Secondly, I really don't understand why Edward Riedl once again is going on about me blaming the Moderates or Beatrice Ask. I haven't even mentioned them. On the other hand, Edward Riedl has made this observation twice. Enough about that. Unfortunately, I believe that although we are getting more policemen in place, which we are about to get, even if we are spending more money on the police, as we are doing, and although we can improve the working conditions and working environment of the police, as we are doing, further action is needed against this type of crime. Unfortunately, these measures are not enough. What we need are smarter sanctions, better intelligence work, better international cooperation on theft leagues and better crime prevention. It is actually gratifying there – although it is not my credit, although it happens during my reign – that the police both in Gothenburg and in Stockholm have a good crime prevention work. The number of store thefts has been significantly reduced and police have been freed in order to increase the security of these centres. Gothenburg is now also examining the possibility of investigating this type of crime remotely in such a way that the police through telecommunications solutions, i.e. videoconferencing, can conduct the necessary hearings on these issues. This makes it much easier for those who arrest shoplifters, because it saves time, and it also saves very important time for the police that they can use instead to be visible, crime prevention and active a. This will be rolled out in more places. I mention international cooperation because we have a number of international theft leagues operating in Sweden. We must take them out through intelligence and through cooperation with other countries. There's still a lot to do there. We also need a reform of the sanctioning system, as I expressed in my previous speech.
i-c2b267abace0d136-366	Mrs. Old President! My speech is rather short, and my question is really: Why are more cases closed since Anders Ygeman took over as Minister for the Interior and became responsible for the Swedish police? Why are more cases closed even though we have a very, very negative development in this area? Why is so few fines paid? If the person who committed the crime has now actually been found, convicted and fined, and the person does not pay, then confidence in the rule of law is eroded. Madam President, I would like the Minister of the Interior to respond to this. Why are more cases closed since he took over as responsible minister if he now thinks that this is an area as important as he expressed in the first place? I think it is good that the Minister for the Interior points out that they work with the foreign theft leagues and get better cooperation with the countries from which these leagues come. It was a work that began earlier. These international criminals move their bases and come from different countries, and it is, of course, a work that must be done constantly. Above all, I was very pleased, Madam Old President, when the Home Secretary said that he thinks the Moderates' proposal for more police officers and better paid police officers is good. As I understand it, the Minister for the Interior is part of the government, and hopefully he has some influence on government policy. Then I'm waiting for this kind of proposal. After all, it is soon time to put forward proposals again, so I look forward with confidence to a much more strengthened budget for the Swedish police.
i-c2b267abace0d136-371	Mrs. Old President! Edward Riedl does not have to wait – we have put the budget on Parliament's table. There is 2 billion more for the police, and we have already got agreements between the police unions and the police authorities, which reward work in external service, which I think Edward Riedl welcomes. I do not think that Edward Riedl wants us in Parliament to pay salaries either for the police or for any other professional group, but for the social partners. Edward Riedl is asking me two questions. One is: Why are more cases closed? It's hard to know, but I'd guess it's because the police contact center is now able to investigate matters more quickly. Many cases that come to the police are of the nature that they cannot be investigated, and then they should be closed down immediately. Why? Because the police resources we have will be invested in the matters that can be investigated. If we don't, we'll waste police and community resources. It is also true that the prosecutor must be courageous and say: Here we can achieve success, so that we can investigate it. But here we cannot achieve success, so this is not to be investigated. Having said that, I will of course say that when there is evidence, as Edward Riedl expressed in his speech, it will of course be investigated. If you have photo evidence and a suspect, there's an investigation plan. However, by closing cases where there are no investigation proposals, we can free up resources to investigate more of the cases where there are evidence ideas. The second question was, Why is so few fines paid? I think we've got a number of people who've built up such large fines that they're fined. It is because, I believe, our system is based on those such as Edward Riedl and me, who pay our fines and do the right thing for us, and not after vanecriminella. That is why we need to reform that system.
i-c2b267abace0d136-375	Mrs. Old President! We have not only vanecriminella in Sweden, but also habitual interpellationists in this House! Edward Riedl has asked me what measures I intend to take to reduce individuals' exposure to violent crimes. Sweden is in many ways a safe country to live in, and the vulnerability to crime is generally low. According to the National Security Survey, the proportion of persons reported as victims of assault and robbery was on level with the previous year in 2015. On the other hand, there is an increase in threats, sexual offences and harassment. However, it is too early to say whether this increase means a permanently higher proportion of victims. Creating a secure society requires opportunities for work, an active and inclusive welfare policy and strategic and determined crime prevention. In July 2016, the government presented a long-term reform programme to reduce segregation in the country and improve the situation in the socially vulnerable areas, where the vulnerability to crime is particularly marked. This is done through measures for more jobs, better schooling, reduced housing segregation and increased support for civil society. We have also increased the resources for the police, who have strengthened their presence in these areas. During the spring, the government will launch a new national crime prevention programme. The aim is to develop the crime prevention work of many different actors, both in the public sector and within industry and civil society. The Government also decided in November 2016 on a ten-year national strategy to combat men's violence against women. The strategy means, among other things, that a greater focus will be on the perpetrators of the crimes than before. Overall, the Government allocates more than SEK 900 million during its term of office for various types of operations in this area. In addition, we have recently proposed, in a proposal, stricter scales of penalties for certain serious violent crimes. These are proposed to enter into force on 1 July 2017. The government thus works in several ways to reduce crime and increase security. That work will continue.
i-c2b267abace0d136-383	Mrs. Old President! Thank you again, Minister, for your answer. Let me begin by saying what the Minister for the Interior says, which I think is a good thing that we are saying, that Sweden is basically a safe and good country to live in. However, we have growing security challenges in our country, and we should take that quite seriously. The Crime Prevention Council presented new statistics at the beginning of the year, and it was no fun reading. It shows that the proportion of victims of violent crime in our country has increased. The development that was the opposite in the alliance years is now broken and heading in the wrong direction. I'm sorry about that. During the year in power of the alliance government, the figures for individuals' exposure to violent crimes declined, but also the concern about staying out, that is, we felt safer every year when it came to living in an outdoor environment. Now the proportion of victims of violent crimes in the kingdom has increased. Of course, this reduces the security and perceived security of those of us who live in this country when we are in outdoor environments, because we think that the risk of being exposed to crime has actually increased. Confidence in the police has also decreased, and it is natural when we see a development in which the rule of law cannot be everywhere, secure everyone and ensure that what we previously took for granted continues to be that way. In my constituency where I live, Västerbotten, we had a long tradition of belonging to the most secure people in Sweden. In a safe country, we were the most secure citizens, with great trust in each other. Since Anders Ygeman became Minister of the Interior and responsible for the Swedish police, this has changed. The perceived insecurity of the citizens of Västerbotten is now above the national average. The Minister for the Interior talks a lot about Gothenburg and Malmö, but in Västerbotten, Sweden's previously most secure county, the proportion of insecure is now higher than the national average. And that is not surprising, because since Anders Ygeman became responsible minister for the Swedish police, Madam President of the Age, the proportion of victims has almost doubled. It is not surprising, then, that the perceived insecurity has become much greater. Mrs. Old President! There are probably several reasons for this development. I have identified two: we have a red-green government, and Anders Ygeman is Minister for these issues. I've asked, Madam Old President, how the Minister for Home Affairs intends to reverse developments, because he is responsible for them, no one else. A heavy responsibility rests on the shoulders of the responsible minister. How does the Minister intend to reverse developments? Some of the answers I got are really good. But I would also like to know where the Minister thinks he has failed when developments have reversed in this way, what he himself thinks he has done wrong. It is also part of thinking about what to do forward and what it is that needs to be improved.
i-c2b267abace0d136-392	Mrs. Old President! Let's start with the numbers. First of all, the figures went both up and down during the moderate government's time, and they have gone both up and down during the Social-Democraticly ruled time. It is not true that the proportion of people who feel that they are insecure at night would be higher in Västerbotten than the national average. It's a pure invention from Edward Riedl, but I suspect it's not a lie but that he's just looked wrong in the tables. I recommend another reading of the NTU. Västerbotten is an area where you are more secure and have more confidence in the judicial system than the national section. That's good. Sweden may have something to learn from Västerbotten, which is not a region that is largely dominated by moderate government. Edward Riedl is trying to make a rhetorical point that everything and all the numbers can be derived from my person and the red-green government. I let the listener decide what might be one or the other. However, I note that the part of society where insecurity is increasing is in the socially vulnerable areas, and according to the Moderates' own report on exclusion increased alienation during the Moderates' time in power. During that time, we had growing unemployment and falling school outcomes, even the strongest falling school results in the whole developed world, in the OECD. We had growing gaps. I do not believe that it is unreasonable to conclude that there is an impact in other areas, such as crime, if there are growing gaps between 10 and 15 years of age, during eight years there is rising unemployment and a sharp rise in youth unemployment, that a quarter of young people are out of the labour market even though they want to work, and if there is the fastest decline in school development in the OECD. That is why we have changed the policy. Now unemployment is not rising but falling. 150 000 jobs have been created in the years in which the government has been in power. School results are turning upwards instead of downwards in both Timss and PISA, and the share of upper secondary school qualifications is increasing. For the first time in a very long time, socially vulnerable areas show encouraging figures showing falling unemployment, increased public health and sometimes even reduced gaps. We must continue to strengthen these developments. Another thing that has happened is that there have been more police officers in these areas. We have seen these developments and acted accordingly. I am convinced that it will produce results, as in the Stockholm suburb where crime fell by 40% because the police have been more present and visible than during the time when you were in charge. We have managed and dared to focus on the socially vulnerable areas. We've got more cops now than we've had before. That development will continue. With more police workers than ever before and with more financial resources that we invest in the police than ever before, citizens' security will develop positively.
i-c2b267abace0d136-401	Mrs. Old President! Let me be clear that I am not trying to make any points, but I am seeing the developments that are taking place. It is also confirmed in the statistics produced by the Swedish Crime Prevention Council. It shows that in Västerbotten, my home county and the county that previously had Sweden's safest citizens, you become less and less secure. The explanation is that violent crimes are on the increase. It's not about making any points. On the other hand, I am a little concerned, Madam President-in-Office, when I hear the Minister for the Interior, as many other ministers in the government are trying to black out the former government. It is possible that it is part of the political game. But it is amazing to hear how the former government, which was the most successful in Europe during the year of the financial crisis, can be blacked out. An attempt is being made to discredit the most successful economic policy in Europe. Mrs. Old President! The reason why the economy in Sweden is so good is that this was founded in those years. It is also good for Anders Ygeman and his opportunities to try to strengthen the Swedish police. Instead of blacking out and trying to rewrite history, the Government could take responsibility for the wrong direction for development, now that he is responsible. Violent crimes are increasing, people are less secure, Sweden's previously safest citizens are no longer. Anders Ygeman is the minister responsible. The most wise thing Anders Ygeman said was that Sweden has a lot to learn from Västerbotten. It is also very often my thesis that there is much to learn, not least in terms of security creation. That is why it would be good, Madam President, if Anders Ygeman came up and visited Västerbotten. Ideally, he would have done so when we had an alliance government, because then the citizens were really safe. But he can come up now too, so I'll try to explain how this was possible, why people then were safe and today are insecure. There are explanations for this. One of these is that Anders Ygeman as responsible minister makes the development go the wrong way. You take resources from Västerbotten and send them to other parts of the country. Yes, it is possible that this is the right priority in the situation we have, but it does provide less opportunity for good police work in other parts of the country, my part of the country in this case. Mrs. Old President! I would still like more answers from Anders Ygeman – some are good – on what to do to achieve this. In addition, the Moderates' proposal of 2 000 more police officers, more colleagues of those who are already working very hard today, and also provides good conditions for good wage increases for the already hard-working police officers. We are talking about average wage increases of SEK 2 000 per month with the proposals we have put forward. Let me be the minister. No, we are not going to set salaries from the Riksdag, but we are going to provide the conditions for good wage increases in the wage negotiations that are to take place between the parties. We can do this. It provides a good opportunity to reverse the developments for which the Minister for the Interior is responsible.
i-c2b267abace0d136-409	Mrs. Old President! It can sometimes be difficult to unite in politics, but we still have a small opportunity here. I share Edward Riedl's view that Sweden can learn from Västerbotten. In Västerbotten, 42 per cent of the voters voted for the Social Democrats, and over 60 per cent voted for a red or green party. Here Sweden has a little to learn. Edward Riedl says the Reinfeldt government was the most successful government in Europe. Then there are two questions. The first is: why did the voters not realise that? After all, they elected another government and voted out the government of Reinfeldt. The second question is: why have the Moderates not realised that the Reinfeldt Government was the most successful in Europe? After all, there is not a day without a moderate Member of Parliament, party leader, party secretary or vice-chairman taking honour and honour from the Reinfeldt government. There will soon be none of what the government of Reinfeldt took that the Moderates still stand for. The most successful government in Europe – tell that to An na Kinberg Batra and Tomas Tobé!
i-c2b267abace0d136-412	Mrs. Old President! Let us clarify a few things. The voters see many important questions and assess them accordingly. No government will receive eternal thanks for what it has done, but will have confidence in what it intends to do in the future. Even Winston Churchill lost the parliamentary elections and was deposed after World War II. The voters therefore, rightly, tend not to reward good efforts. The government of Reinfeldt and Borg were the most successful in very tough years in pursuing economic policy. The voters thought we were bad at other things and therefore chose to go to another party to some extent. The Home Secretary knows very well what party it was. Let me also make it clear: nobody voted for this government, because this government base had as little support in the 2010 elections as in the 2014 elections. But the Swedish Democrats, that is, the party between the two blocs, became considerably larger. If the minister thinks it was a success, it'll have to stand for him. Mrs. Old President! The Minister for Home Affairs wants to have a debate on things quite different from what he is responsible for. I understand why, because if it goes the wrong way in the area by area for which you are responsible, you would of course prefer to talk about other things. Then it is more fun to rewrite history and black out previous governments and blame former ministers and other things than stand up and take responsibility for what you are responsible for. There has been a very negative development in a number of areas since Anders Ygeman became Minister. We have now had two debates, and I think we can have more. Anders Ygeman is the minister responsible, and it's going the wrong way. Then he should both try to understand what he has done wrong, because it is going in the wrong direction, and tell him what he wants to do to make it go in the right direction. I have tried to explain some of the things we Moderates want to do, and we believe that, among other things, more and better paid police officers are needed.
i-c2b267abace0d136-419	Mrs. Old President! There seems to be a misunderstanding. I'm not blacking out the Reinfeldt government at all. I was just wondering why so many Moderates reject Reinfeldt's policy. That's my point. Maybe it's worth thinking about. As far as police and police work are concerned, I share Edward Riedl's view that more resources are needed for the police, more police and more police workers. I think that is an undisputed fact. Then we can discuss the forms for that and so on, but basically we need more police officers, more police employees, better working environment and better working conditions for Swedish police. Both me and Edward Riedl can analyse the figures on crime development and security and draw different conclusions. But in order for us to be able to do it better, in order for the future interpellation debates that Edward Riedl promised to be better and for Parliament to be better able to demand responsibility from the government, we have commissioned the Police Authority to report the statistics not only at county level but at local police level, at municipal level. Then we can compare the efficiency of the police between the municipalities. The National Security Survey, which the police order from the National Crime Prevention Council, will also go down at the municipal level. In this way we can also compare the crime prevention work of municipalities and police officers together. Then I and Edward Ried l will have a better basis for questioning the work of the police, the work of the municipalities and the work of the government. In this way we can have a better police debate and a better discussion on how we can achieve the common goal: to make Sweden safer and the police's work more effective.
i-c2b267abace0d136-424	Mrs. Old President! Erik Ottoson has asked the Minister for Housing and Digitalization what the Government intends to take measures to create clear leadership in the digitisation process of public Sweden. Furthermore, Erik Ottoson has asked how the Government and the Government will develop the regulatory letters to Swedish authorities in order to speed up the process of digitising the public sector and what regulatory simplifications the Government and Government will initiate in order to facilitate the digitisation of Sweden. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The Government's ambition is clear: Sweden should be the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation to create a modern and efficient public sector, a simpler everyday life for individuals and companies, more jobs and increased welfare. The Swedish administrative model gives state authorities, municipalities and county councils great freedom to choose how to fulfil their tasks. These are important cornerstones of the successful Swedish administration. At the same time, it is the government's task to create the best possible conditions for digitalisation of public administration, and the government is carrying out a number of initiatives. Let me give you a few examples. The national digital infrastructure is a prerequisite for the digitisation of public Sweden. The Government therefore announced in the budget proposal for 2017 a new financing model for the management of national basic data and national digital services such as Swedish eID and My messages. But the connection of public authorities, private individuals and businesses to the digital infrastructure needs to be increased. A special investigator has therefore been tasked with making proposals on how to streamline the governance of national digital services. The same study has been commissioned to analyse how digitalisation in the public sector can be accelerated by bringing responsibility together in an authority within the framework of existing government structures. The central government's IT costs amount to approximately SEK 30 billion annually. The internal governance and control of these costs by the authorities need to be improved. The Government has therefore extended the task of the Swedish Financial Control Agency to monitor the effectiveness of the state authorities in the use of information technology and how they use the possibilities of digitalisation. Public information is a society-wide resource of great value. It is important to promote the re-use of this information. The Government has therefore commissioned the National Archives to lead the work of publishing information as open data in the state. A number of development authorities will promote increased re-use by promoting a smarter community-building process, a smarter food chain and a smarter use of environmental information. Over 25 authorities and municipalities collaborate within the framework of the Hack for Sweden project to solve societal challenges using open data. The Government supports this year's competition, which will, among other things, focus on community building and smarter environmental information. Regulatory simplification is an area with which the government is actively working. A recent initiative is the Government's and SKL's agreement to simplify entrepreneurship in the restaurant industry with the help of digital solutions. It is a regulatory industry that requires extensive contact with authorities and municipalities. In order to further facilitate digitalisation and collaboration in public administration, a special investigator has been tasked with identifying and analysing the existence of legislation that unnecessarily complicates development. The investigation shall also make proposals for constitutional changes. By actively promoting the digitisation of public Sweden, the government has taken important steps in the modernisation of the administration. I will continue to pursue this work for the rest of my term of office.
i-MP2qdNecUhC7RRSdHuWdAv	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I and the Government have discussed digitalisation issues earlier in a very good tone. I feel that the Government's response bears witness to good ambitions in the area of digitalisation. This is, of course, something that I welcome. I think, however, that I and the Government are talking a little bit past each other, considering what I was referring to in my question and what the Council of State is saying in its answer. I think we are beginning to get to a point in the digitisation of public Sweden where a holistic approach will need to be taken in a way that has not happened before. That's why I use the concept of leadership, not governance. It is a much broader concept, which implies a wider allocation and a broader responsibility. One thing that I think is crucial to get the whole public Sweden to work in a more digital way is municipalities and county councils. As I and the Government have discussed in the past, municipal self-government is an important factor that must be respected but which must not become any form of restraint for the digitisation of the public. I do not believe that the Government should underestimate its position and weight as a minister in the use of objectives also for municipal and county-run operations, particularly in terms of digitalisation. You may not necessarily have every municipality in that form of softer leadership, but I think you get enough to create a critical mass. Then there are tools from government and government can be used to push further in the same genre. In 2011 or 2012, if I do not remember wrong, Kammarkollegiet did a major procurement of so-called student elev-Ipadar, which every Swedish municipal school had the opportunity to call off. It was a central approach that made a big difference for the digitisation of our teaching. I believe that more such initiatives could create better interaction between the state and the municipality and also help the municipalities to lift up. There is talk, for example, of community building processes. There is a great deal that could be developed, as the Government also mentioned, but the development costs for this form of digital systems are often very large. You may need to be helped to bear these costs together. If SKL can't carry that ball, you might have to help from the state. A follow-up question to the Government becomes: Are there any such thoughts and projects within the Government Office and within the state part of public Sweden, to create more projects like what Kammarkollegiet had in the early 10th century, with a joint procurement that municipalities could then call off from? Are there any thoughts about what laws can be passed to push ahead, not just what laws exist and can stand in the way? One cannot just remove obstacles and hope that it will work out. I think the Government agrees with that. What thoughts are there about making and proposing laws to the Riksdag in order to drive the digitisation of the public?
i-c2b267abace0d136-447	Mrs. Old President! First of all, I would like to thank Erik Ottoson very much for this debate and for the interpellation. As usual when we discuss issues relating to the digitisation of the public sector, Erik Ottoson is wise and is right. That is exactly what he says that we need to do and that we are working on, namely to create stronger leadership and governance in the public sector. What is at stake is that we must start to see the public sector as a group. So far we have not done so, and that is why we have fallen behind in the last ten years when it comes to the digitisation of public Sweden. When the world started with digitalisation and even computerization of services already in the 70s and 80s, Sweden was at the forefront, but then we had clear governance and leadership. Now we've fallen behind. We've been falling behind for almost ten years. We see that our neighbours have run by. The Danes have now implemented a number of reforms to improve the efficiency of public administration and digitise communication between citizens and the public sector. What they have done is that they have seen the public sector as a group and run it as a group. They have created partnerships between the state, municipalities and county councils. I am basically a warm friend of municipal self-government, and I see it as my task to defend it in the government on the basis of my responsibilities. However, I must admit that in the talks I have had with Kommunsverige during these two years, it is an area in which Kommunsverige requires clearer government governance and leadership, and that is the digitisation of the public sector. Digitisation and common digital infrastructures do not weaken local government but, on the contrary, create conditions for efficient and prosperous municipalities and county councils. We are now waiting for the report on the investigation, which is due shortly and which deals with the common services. We focus a lot on the first part of the infrastructure, which deals with communications between citizens and companies and the public sector – My messages. We have the ambition to take action and act as soon as we get the evidence from the investigator to speed up the process when it comes to connecting to My messages. We must also include the municipalities here. We are in active dialogue with the local government sector on this, and we believe that this is necessary. Not least from a citizen's perspective, municipalities must be involved. We have decided on a financing model. This has so far been lacking in the common services. Now there is a model for how we will finance the common IT or digital services that are needed and necessary for us to digitise the public sector. We are working to remove legal obstacles, as Erik Ottoson mentioned. I agree with his point of departure that it is not enough simply to remove obstacles. We also need to get in and steer and lead. This is why we work with national governance and management in terms of the common digital services that are needed to make the public sector more efficient. This journey has begun, and we will do everything we can for the rest of the term of office to speed up digitalisation. This will require much clearer leadership and governance from the state than we have seen before.
i-c2b267abace0d136-458	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for the follow-up answer! I have a good idea. What we need to know is that there are legislative processes that will have to come about, in fact the day before yesterday, especially in relation to what the Government is talking about, namely open data, where the whole model of our principle of public access will need to be developed. Today, in principle, we have two situations: confidential or public documents. We will need to review the possibilities to set up a third mode: open data or open by default. There is a standardised set of data that is always available in a fully machine-readable and raw format that can be used by authorities, companies and individuals to create values, find information and process statistics in a completely different way. There, of course, the financing models are very important. I think that we also need to look at the possibilities of what is the starting point of public administration. When we handle documents, when we archive and when we release documents, is it the paper that is the starting point? Or should the principle be established digitally first, so that the starting point is that the document is digital – that it exists and is authenticated digitally? Or is it the starting point that signatures on paper prevail? It is ultimately also a question of legislation whether it is digital first or not. I can be a little anecdotal. When my grandfather recently passed away, I was going to help my grandmother get more home help. The form for requesting extended home help could not be e-mailed. This had not been a concern before. Therefore, we had to wait further for the form to be sent by mail. There had also been delays due to Postnord. But this could have gone so much faster. I think this is about establishing principles. As I said, it can also be a legislative issue that drives much of technological development and digital development in the municipality of Sweden too, where we talk about leadership and the need for extra governance. Taking such a step would be bold, and this would likely lead to many raised eyebrows. But I also believe that it is necessary for us to catch up with those who have now possibly drifted ahead of us. These are things that I believe the Government is certainly open to. Therefore, it is interesting to know if there are any processes in this direction precisely in terms of open by default, in terms of digital first and in terms of other changes in structures that make us now assume that things are digital but that it should of course always be so that if you want it in paper format – if you want this form or information in physical format – it should continue to be possible but that the starting point is different. My supplementary question to the Government is whether there are processes in progress that lead to that very point, or whether this is still to be initiated.
i-c2b267abace0d136-467	Mrs. Old President! I thank Erik Ottoson for this relevant issue. Yes, the process is underway in two investigations. Both the study that is tasked with looking at common services and structures and the investigation that is tasked with looking at the legal issues have as its starting point the goal of working with digital first. Unfortunately, we are not the first in the world to do this. We are soon the last of our comparable countries. That's why our ambition is to speed up. Sweden is obviously in a position to introduce the principle digitally first in all public activities. It has also been the starting point for work during this parliamentary term, but we need to speed up. That is why these investigations have been given such clear mandates. Mrs. Old President! I said a few weeks ago in some context that our goal is to stop using fax machines in the Swedish public sector by the end of 2018. Then I was mocked in social media because people thought there were no fax machines. But the fact is, we have quite a few fax machines left. Referrals to Swedish healthcare are still being faxed. Our courts work with fax machines in 2017 in one of the world's most digital countries. The forms mentioned by Erik Ottoson are available not only in municipal and county councils but also in the state. People spend their energies filling in tasks that are already in the public domain. Then there are some who will computerize the data that citizens have filled in on forms. There are huge gains in efficiency if we really manage to implement digitisation reform in the public sector, and that is what we have started. It'll take a few years. However, if we step up the pace, have a clear goal and work together with the local government sector, we will be able to achieve these goals and demonstrate that we can make it easier for citizens and businesses and also streamline the use of resources in the public sector. The challenge is our management model. Although our management model is strong – it delivers, it is legally secure and it is effective – and we have independent authorities and a decentralised welfare model, where municipalities and county councils handle the large welfare tasks, the management model, like all other models, has a weakness, and this applies to the group-wide tasks and services. They will not be coordinated from a perspective where the authorities and municipalities themselves find solutions, but the state must take joint responsibility. In the absence of responsibility, some authorities have teamed up in several collaborations and developed digital services that have facilitated citizens. Several authorities have gone ahead – the Swedish Tax Agency is such an example – and managed to digitise much of the case management and contacts with citizens. But common services are needed, and common services require governance and leadership. Do not forget one thing in this debate, namely that we have lots of Swedish companies that are incredibly successful and that are at the forefront of international comparisons with regard to digital services that can be used in the public sector. Several of the Swedish companies are winning procurements around Europe that deal with digitalisation of the public sector. So we have an industry that is interested in being involved in influencing, contributing and helping us in this process. Then we must take up the challenge and do what we are doing now. I look forward to continuing this dialogue with Erik Ottoson and other members of Parliament who are involved in digitisation issues. We also need to do everything we can to build a stronger alliance with the local government sector.
i-c2b267abace0d136-476	Mrs. Old President! Thank you for that. I fully agree with the Government that digitally first will be a very important building block. This year, for example, for the first time I received the orange envelope digitally and not physically. Just one such thing seems to me to be a case ahead. My girlfriend got it physically, but it's another thing. What remains and which I believe will be very crucial is about open by default, that is, the further classification of information. Some types of information should therefore not even have to be considered a public document, but should be more transparent than that. A certain form of information shall always be available for direct reading. There are authorities, both in Kommunsverige and in state Sweden, who work in this way. For example, SL has for a long period of time had timetable data and interference information in open data formats, i.e. open by default. The first travel planner app in Stockholm was not created by SL but by a private person who used this information. These are things that I think many do not know at all. But there is an infinite amount of benefits that can be created by this very form of data opening. An example was given to Minister Peter Eriksson at Uli Geoforum a few blocks from here, where an investigation has been carried out using government money to find out how great benefits would be created if the geographical data of Lantmäteriet today were fully opened. It has been concluded that these are benefits in the 100 million class every year which today, so to speak, remain unused precisely because these data are subject to a charge. I know Lantmäteriet is working on this. Are there more things you are working on just to create more data that is open by default?
i-c2b267abace0d136-481	Mrs. Old President! Yes, there are several processes that are underway. In the area of open data and the re-use of open data, we need to initiate more processes. We do not have enough initiatives in place, and we need to do more. We're looking at this right now. Among other things, it is about ensuring that we focus on the right areas, and I mentioned some areas where we have worked project-based. It's been a success. I think we need to work more that way with open data. But in the end it is also about funding, as Erik Ottoson mentioned, because these social gains are being made elsewhere. But the costs are to be taken from any budget. This will make financing models and management models very central in this context. I make the assessment that we need to come back in this area and initiate new processes. We also need to take advantage of the lessons learned by our comparable countries in their processes. I was in Mexico last week, where a lot of work was done to prevent natural disasters. This is about open data as a very important tool in this work on prevention of natural disasters. I was incredibly impressed by the huge profits that can be made with open data and the re-use of open data. I was also reminded that we have a fairly long journey to make in Sweden in relation to this, and that is related to how our administration is managed and financed. I am happy to come back to this issue and look forward to continuing a dialogue on this.
i-c2b267abace0d136-486	Mrs. Old President! Isabella Hökmark has asked me whether I share the concerns about the fact that the proposal of the Welfare Investigation actually means a ban on profits, what consequences I consider such a ban would have and how I intend to act in this regard. The government intends to bring order to its welfare. Welfare does not function as a normal market. It can be difficult for pupils and users to assess the quality of a school or nursing home beforehand. When the public accounts for the payment and it is difficult for users to compare quality, there is a risk that companies' profit interests are heading in the wrong direction. The government therefore wants to ensure that the money that the public pays for welfare will benefit users. Researchers often point out that underlying factors, such as socio-economic background, can explain differences in the outcome of user surveys. In primary care, for example, patients in private providers have, on average, higher incomes, higher education and lower care needs. This makes it difficult to interpret whether the business itself performs better or whether the user base provides better conditions for high quality. The Expert Group on Public Economy Studies, ESO, states that there is no clear correlation between efficiency and the proportion of welfare services provided by local and private authorities. The government has made it clear that it continues to want individual actors to be able to operate in welfare. A diversity of actors in welfare can contribute to increased innovation and development. As Isabella Hökmark probably knows, today's deadline is the deadline for the referral of the report of the Welfare Investigation Order in Welfare (SOU 2016:78). The referral will now be analysed in the Government Office. I do not intend to anticipate this preparation, but the government will return to Parliament on these issues.
i-c2b267abace0d136-491	Mrs. Old President! I have a former parliamentary colleague named Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm. She runs a health center in Lycksele today. The proposed profit limit means that her health care centre would have to reduce its working capital, which would result in a negative result every year. The operating margin would be −0.02 percent. The health centre currently employs 14 people and has 4 500 people who have chosen it. The crazy thing about the Welfare Investigation is that the 7 percent profit ceiling in practice means a profit ban. It is based on operational capital, which in welfare companies is low. This means that the operating margin is small. Reepalus' own advice to these companies is that they should take out a loan and deposit into the treasury, which would provide a greater operational capital. But who is receiving loans today if you go to the bank and show a business that cannot be profitable? And why should you borrow to keep the money you've already earned? I could stand here and give many examples of such entrepreneurs around Sweden, but it would probably take the whole evening. The problem with this investigation and the government's cooperation with the Left Party is that this has laid down as a wet blanket over Sweden. There are many who have not dared to bet and many who have not been able to continue. For example, we can look at the English school, which has 21,400 students and started 25 years ago. The CEO there says that it would never have started today if the threat of a profit limit had existed. It is a good and successful school where there is a huge queue to get in. I therefore ask whether the Minister really has no opinion on this. Does the Minister want to strangle freedom of choice for people? There are many companies that will be bankrupt and unable to continue. Are not people's choices worth anything?
i-c2b267abace0d136-495	Mrs. Old President! This is perhaps one of the most important political issues in Sweden, and not just today. These issues have been debated in Sweden since the early 1990s, or indeed in the mid-1980s. Our problem is that the starting point for the changes in the early 1990s was actually very naive. If we create a system of freedom of establishment and unlimited profits from publicly funded welfare activities, it is clear that we are in favour of a certain level of behaviour and certain types of operators. You create certain risks. It is precisely those risks and disadvantages that the government now wants to deal with. I'm the first one to admit it's not easy. There is a reason why no other European country allowed commercial interests to enter public school, Madam President. We are unique. The reason is that it is quite difficult to combine commercial interests in public school with a system where we have order and discretion for the professions. When you start a process and want to create order – and ensure that taxpayers' money is used for what it is intended – you face many difficulties, not only of a legal nature but also of a practical nature. That is why it is so important that we now have a proper discussion on the proposals that the Welfare Investigation has put forward. You can have many views on the proposals, but the fact is that this is the first time we have made a concrete proposal on how to create order in welfare. I'm sure there's a lot of flaws – that's the case with all the proposals being investigated – but we need to have a real dialogue and discussion on how to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent on Swedish schools and welfare and does not end up anywhere else. Basically, Madam President-in-Office, it is about the legitimacy of the public sector. After all, it is not voluntary to pay taxes, and if we want people to be forced to give up their income in order to fund common public services – welfare services – we must be able to guarantee them that their money is spent precisely on public welfare and education. We can't do that today. In the school area, we do not even have the opportunity to make demands. Those who finance schools today are not in a position to impose quality requirements. That's why we see JB bankruptcies and the like, which were actually preceded by major profit dividends. It is a betrayal of Swedish taxpayers. This is not a left-right question among voters, Madam President-in-Office, which is also interesting. A majority of the voters who voted for Isabella Hökmark's party actually want to see strong profit restrictions in Swedish schools. This is a fundamental principle: when we force people to give up part of their income in order to finance common services, it is the duty of the state to use those resources properly, for what they are intended and for what is effective. Today we do not have the tools to guarantee this. At school we have very bad conditions to make demands. It can be argued that the requirements can be imposed in the care of the elderly, in connection with procurements and the requirements of the Freedom of Choice Act. However, there are also shortcomings in the system which make it possible in some cases to reduce quality in order to increase profits. That conflict must be dealt with, Madam President-in-Office, and that is why we have started this process.
i-c2b267abace0d136-502	Mrs. Old President! My constituents want freedom of choice. They are used to choosing, and they want to continue to be able to do so. It is now at risk with this proposal and the threat of what you are going to implement. I hear the minister's targeting the school pretty much. I have read in one of the big newspapers that the Minister has said that it is the school to focus on. Then I note that you claim that there is no shortage of welfare and that there will be benefits in other health care activities and so on, and that is a good thing. But it is not businesses that make profits that are the problem, but the problem is those that lack quality. That's what we should be talking about. I think the Minister should go out and see what it looks like in the municipalities. I have done so, and there are a great many municipal businesses that are going at a loss. They get much more money in the form of supplements that are not visible in this. The problem is those activities that do not meet the quality requirements and that can continue only because they are municipal. Loss-making activities do not improve. The state-owned companies, which meet Reepalus's profit ceiling, are an expression of this. The fact that they do not make profits does not bring more welfare – rather, they give less well-being because they go with loss. For example, the post does not carry out more letters because you work badly and go at a loss. The loss affects users, while benefits benefit users by making operations good. That's why it's very strange to think that the profit ceiling is okay in one case – if I have understood the Minister's recent statements in the newspapers correctly – but instead it hits the schools and all the thousands of students who have chosen a particular school. Explain what to say to all thousands of students who have chosen an independent school! What are you going to say to them when you legislate so that it cannot survive and that it will not work well? What are you going to tell the students who have chosen these schools because they are good? Children and parents have made active choices and turned to a school that they think is good and that usually works better than the municipal school. In the municipalities where free schools have been established, the results in the municipal schools have also improved tremendously, so this competition in the municipalities is healthy.
i-c2b267abace0d136-510	Mrs. Old President! It seems that Isabella Hökmark changed the theme of the debate. If it is the case that we are discussing freedom of choice and diversity of actors, there are no differences in that area. There is now a total consensus in the Swedish Parliament that we should defend the model of freedom of choice for users and diversity of actors. It is about the rules that we should have for the private performers that exist in public welfare and in school to ensure that the public funds that they receive are used for what they are intended for and for the benefit of users. Mrs. Old President! Let me remind Isabella Hökmark that she belongs to a party which, last summer, proposed a ban on profits for certain schools, precisely in order to ensure that the resources are used for what they are intended for. Let me also remind Isabella Hökmark that Anders Borg, the former Finance Minister, felt that we should have rules that threw the venture capital companies out of Swedish welfare. The problem, Madam President, is that these arguments, or these moves, do not stop at rhetoric. Someone has to come up with rules too. If we do not want venture capital companies – if we want long-term ownership – we must have rules for this. This isn't easy. That is, once again, why no other country has taken commercial interests into public school – it is not easy to regulate this. Then we face the difficulties. However, this does not deprive us of the responsibility towards the children who go to school and the taxpayers who finance the school. We have a responsibility. We cannot pretend to forget about the JB bankruptcy, which led Anders Borg to stand there and comment on how this would be regulated by the state of Sweden, and wait for the next scandal to do something and take some rhetorical approach. There is also a reality to be taken into account. In the situation that we find ourselves in regarding Swedish school and with the great challenges that we have – with knowledge results that must be improved, with a segregation that has been allowed to grow and with increased gaps and increased inequality in Swedish school – we must use every crown that goes to Swedish school to improve the quality of it. We're not doing that today. Now some of the money leaks out, at worst, to tax havens. This is not something we can defend against our taxpayers, who give up part of their income to finance, among other things, Swedish schools. The government focuses on the school, and we will also focus on elderly care and health care. The government's goal is not to reduce diversity or to shut down health centres, hospitals or schools. The goal is that we can honestly and clearly guarantee our taxpayers that we have an efficient use of resources in Swedish public welfare and school. It is not the case that there is a lack of diversity and freedom of choice in other European countries which require that resources be allocated to users. Other countries also have systems of choice and diversity for users, not least in schools. However, all these countries are demanding that resources be used in school. It is only we who do not, and this is Swedish naivety which today affects Swedish schoolchildren and which may ultimately threaten the legitimacy of our funding of the common public sector.
i-c2b267abace0d136-521	Mrs. Old President! The Minister says that he is in favour of freedom of choice and that no health centres or schools should be closed. But that is precisely what will result if this profit limit is taken up. This hinders private alternatives – you cannot run a loss-making company. You can't get a loan. You can't save money to make investments. You can't do anything. Freedom of choice requires diversity. If we are to retain freedom of choice, there must be options to choose from. This is also the strength of freedom of choice – you can choose, but you can also opt out, which makes quality better. Today there are 4,000 free schools. 340 000 students attend these schools. They have 60,000 employees. At least 1 million parents and grandparents belong to these students. There are 12 000 private companies in the healthcare sector and 23 million medical visits are made to these companies. 41 000 people have private home care. 17,000 people have chosen private retirement homes. What's wrong with these choices? As I see it, it is the Social Democrats who are currently the greatest threat to welfare. I wish the Minister would use his last speech to tell people around Sweden why they want to close down pupils' schools. Why have they made a wrong choice? Tell everyone! Tell those who have chosen a health centre or private health care! What's wrong? What have they done wrong?
i-c2b267abace0d136-526	Mrs. Old President! It is not people who have chosen different actors who have done wrong – it is we politicians who have done the wrong thing, because we cannot guarantee that the resources that go to school are used in school. That is our responsibility, not that of the citizens. The citizens are very clear – they want freedom of choice and diversity, and they want the money to be used in the business. They are very critical of profits in welfare. This is the message from the citizens. We're the ones who haven't delivered. Now we have to deliver. If we want to ensure that the quality is high in Swedish schools, we must have rules that guarantee good use of resources. Mrs. Old President! I hear from Isabella Hökmark that there is a very ideological perspective on this issue in parts of the Moderate Assembly Party. The problem is that ideological blind spots have limited this House's ability to resolve these issues. We can solve this – we can have both diversity and choice at the same time as we have rules that ensure good quality. We can prevent JB failures. We could have done it. Those students who stood outside the school door and who did not enter their school due to the bankruptcy, which was preceded by large dividends, had to pay a rather high price for this House's unwillingness to resolve the issue of profits in Swedish school and welfare. On the part of the government, I can guarantee that we will do everything we can to help find constructive, pragmatic solutions. The goal is for taxpayers' money to benefit the welfare and school users. They should be used there, in the business. It is only then that we can defend diversity and real freedom of choice for users.
i-c2b267abace0d136-532	Mrs. Old President! Edward Riedl has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the number of road deaths does not continue to rise, but, on the contrary, to reduce, and whether I can account for how much new money the government is investing in preventing traffic accidents. It is unfortunate that more have died in road traffic in 2016 compared to 2015. However, the correct number of deaths is 263 for 2016 and 259 for 2015. The government has high ambitions in the area of road safety and has initiated a new start for the zero vision. During the term of office, the Government has taken a number of measures in the area of road safety. So far, the government has decided on three missions to the authorities with a bearing on road safety. Trafikverket has been tasked with leading overall cooperation in road safety. The Government has also decided on two assignments for Traffic Analysis, one of which aims to propose new milestones for road safety after 2020 and the other to investigate reduced base speed in urban areas. The latter is part of road safety work, which means greater safety and safety, especially for pedestrians and cyclists in traffic. The impact of reduced urban base speed, and alternatives to this, shall be assessed in relation to the transport policy objectives as a whole. Increased digitalisation, connectivity and automation of the transport system will affect both travel patterns and transport. The Government is working on several fronts, both nationally and internationally, to promote innovation, including in facilitating trials and implementation of connected, collaborative and automated vehicles. The introduction of advanced driver support systems and connected and self-driving vehicles continues to have the potential to deliver significant road safety gains. The Government is also working with strengthened compliance and better social conditions in professional traffic with the aim of contributing to increased road safety on Swedish roads. Following the Riksdag's decision to establish a financial framework in accordance with the Government's infrastructure proposal, work on action plans is now continuing, which will lead to a new national traffic cross-border plan for the development of the transport system 2018 – 2029. The action plan identifies the items to be prioritised, including in order to improve road safety. In connection with the further work on the plan, the Government intends to return to the issue of road safety initiatives.
i-c2b267abace0d136-540	Mrs. Old President! I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. It is gratifying that the Government wants to prioritise road safety. It feels great. I can agree with the Minister that this is one of the issues where the parties' views have not differed. There have been high ambitions, regardless of who is in government. This is one of the issues that I am very proud of from the eight years of the alliance government. A lot of good things happened in the area. I will be frank and say that we took over an area where Sweden was already the best in the world. The former Social Democratic Government had thus done a very good job in this area. Sweden perhaps had the best road safety in the world when we started our work. But from being basically world best, during the year of the alliance government, we managed to almost halve the number of deaths in traffic in Sweden. I'm very proud of that. This means that fewer people lost their lives in traffic; more people had to live their lives clearly. I think we should be proud of this together. Much of the work that took place was about meeting separation, what is often called two-plus-one paths. With the help of the centre railings you make sure that there are no frontal collisions. It was also about forgiving roadsides, i.e. that there should be no stone, tree or anything else that is in the way if someone drives off the road. It is a question of building safe infrastructure as much as possible. When people make mistakes, it should not result in death. It has been a very successful work. It's saved a lot of lives. However, too many young and unprotected road users are still losing their lives. That is unacceptable. I am convinced that the Minister and I share the same view. Many types of measures are needed to address this. Mrs. Old President! I believe that not least reduced base speed inside cities, which the Minister himself lifts up, is something that all parties should look at. It is totally unacceptable that schoolchildren should lose their lives on the way to and from school because adult people in cars are in much too much hurry, drive too fast and take far too little account of those who have no protection at all when they are hit by these cars. Children aren't supposed to die. That's the basic condition we should be working from. As I said, I believe in broad political agreement on these issues. It's good if we try to agree. Let me highlight an area I'm a little worried about. This government has cut back on road maintenance. There has been less money for road maintenance compared to the level of the alliance government. Despite the fact that some of it is restored, there will be overall less money for the road area in terms of road maintenance – as I understand it from the draft budget. It's a little unfortunate. It is part of the road safety work. As I said, I agree with much of what the Minister raised in his first speech. But my question remains, Madam President. We agree on good intentions. That's what the minister delivered in a good way. And I agree with much of what the Minister said. But how much more money does this government want to spend on road safety? Then I mean get some money, what makes it possible for us to rebuild infrastructure.
i-c2b267abace0d136-551	Mrs. Old President! I agree with Edward Riedl that it is a great strength that there is broad political consensus on the importance of having effective road safety work. It is also a strength that there is broad political consensus about the high-ranking goal of zero people losing their lives or being seriously injured in traffic in Sweden. I believe that there is also a rather broad consensus on the principles underlying the zero vision. First of all, it is an almost moral basic view, that is, one does not just look at the individual driver's responsibilities. It is a broad responsibility where we, as infrastructure managers, traffic planners, city planners, vehicle manufacturers, regulators etc., have a common responsibility. This model has also proved successful. It can be added that, among other things, we have not allocated specific funds for road safety measures, but it has been part of the regular planning work. Road safety is one of the objectives on which the whole of transport policy is based. This means that road safety weighs heavily in the regular work when priority is given to different measures. I think it has been a success factor and I think it should continue to be that way. It is not very exciting to cave in statistics, but it may be good to see this diagram that I show to the Members of this House. Unfortunately, nothing dramatic happened between 2015 and 2016, as Edward Riedl says in the interpellation. What has happened is that from a very low note in 2010, we have had a small increase; then the reduction in road deaths has levelled out. There can certainly be many explanations for this. Therefore, the government decided last autumn to make a so-called new start for the zero vision. It is 20 years since Parliament adopted the zero vision. If you have worked so long with an area and have been as successful as Sweden has been, there is always a risk of leaning back a little. We have seen that the positive trend has levelled out over a number of years. That is why we think it is time for a move, to see what measures have an effect and what we might have missed. We have already identified vulnerable road users as a group that needs more attention, as I also mentioned in my reply. In Sweden, road users are good at wearing a seat belt, and there is a strong culture that means that you do not drink alcohol if you are driving. But from the statistics we can see that alcohol is still involved in a large proportion of the very serious accidents that occur. It is therefore another focus area. By giving Trafikverket a clearer overall responsibility, we believe that we can go further when it comes to identifying the right measures for the continued work.
i-c2b267abace0d136-559	Mrs. Old President! I can only agree with the Minister that it is a strength to have quite a lot of common views in this area. It also makes you able to hold on over time. Then I do not rule out that sometimes you need to grab yourself and look at what you can do better and so on. It's obvious. Statistics can be used to show how things change between individual years. It wasn't really my basic idea, Mrs. Old President. I think we should be careful about statistics in this area. Precisely because we have such low death rates, quite few individual events can affect the statistics to a large extent. It's not always fair. Therefore, it is much better to use current five-year statistics, which I know is used in research. I certainly did not want to use the statistics to point out that something very negative would have happened. Hopefully there are individual deviations. What we are seeing and what the Minister is highlighting is that this is leveling out. When statistics are broken down, it turns out that young unprotected road users are precisely a group where we are not satisfied that developments are progressing as they do. So there are parts in the whole that should be looked at. Mrs. Old President! Some cost no money at all or very little. It's a matter of reviewing base speeds and other things inside cities that I think can be a way forward. It's not very expensive. Again, many things need to be done to resolve these issues. What remains is the problem – that is also what I mentioned – that if you reduce road maintenance and do not continue to provide resources to that area, it provides less opportunities for safety work around the road. I think that's a bit of a pity. If I understand the Minister correctly, I will not receive an answer; it is more a general discussion. I would like to see additional money restored and spent on road maintenance. It's part of the big picture.
i-c2b267abace0d136-566	Mrs. Old President! I think that Edward Riedl is well aware that the reduction referred to here was a temporary measure in a year when the state finances were very strained by other things that happened in Sweden. In order to cope with a ceiling on expenditure, we had to review expenditure in a number of areas where it would do as little damage as possible. It involved 500 million of an annual budget of a total of 12 to 13 billion. The infrastructure bill decided by the Riksdag shortly before Christmas also includes an increase of 7 per cent in road maintenance appropriations. One should also be careful not to draw too hasty conclusions. If you are to draw the kind of conclusions that Edward Riedl is now making, you should have on your feet, that is to say be able to show that a number of the accidents that have occurred have to do with a lack of road maintenance. It is also part of zero vision work, not doing what is believed to be working but ensuring that we have proper data, follow up the accidents that occur, get a better picture of the situation in which this occurs and what is causing serious collision damage. On this basis, action should be taken to ensure that the money is spent in the most effective way. The Government has also recently commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to prepare for the introduction of alco-bommar in Swedish ports. Of the experiments that have been carried out, we have seen that alcoboms have a positive, and not least a preventive, effect. When you have had alcohol booms, more drivers have chosen not to take a chance and take a beer on the crossing if the alcohol boom is in use when you come across the other side. We intend to continue this work. As I said, the Finnish Transport Agency has been given the task of having the more comprehensive coordination function. When we have come as far as we have done in Sweden, there are not so many low-hanging fruits left, for them we have picked long ago. This means that for every step that we are going to take, it becomes a little more difficult to identify the right measures. It is therefore extremely important to carry out analyses of individual incidents and such things. One of the strategic collaboration programmes that the government has set up on tomorrow's travel and transport is about how to get better survey results and use big data. It will also be an important tool for identifying further measures to increase road safety, when one hopefully gets a better picture of how people move, during which times and with which modes of traffic and so on. Overall, I would like to say that there is a lot going on in this area, and the government has continued to have a strong focus. We have as our absolute goal that we reach zero, i.e. zero killed and seriously injured in Sweden.
i-c2b267abace0d136-573	Mrs. Old President! I am well aware that it was a temporary measure that saved the government 500 million dollars on road maintenance. What I mean is that during the period you could raise that money back or at least make sure that it is not less money than it was originally intended. In addition, I think that the area should be further strengthened, not least on the basis of what the Finnish Transport Administration itself points out, that is to say that the roads are badly deprived. Road maintenance is very neglected, and we need to strengthen that area considerably. Mrs. Old President! I would like to make it clear to those who listen to the debate and to the Minister that I have certainly not linked road deaths to the government's road maintenance savings. What I said was that given the good level we are at – the government is doing a lot of good on these issues – it is clear that we must not lag behind on what we have already achieved. If we save money on road maintenance, it will affect road safety in the long term. So I did not make any such connections. It would be very unfortunate if someone had interpreted it that way. Much of what is road safety-enhancing measures costs money – not everything, but much. I agree with the Minister that every step we take forward is becoming increasingly difficult. Thankfully, we have also reached the level where very few people lose their lives, but there are many things we need to look at. There are heart attacks in traffic, which are sometimes difficult to identify, and there are many other things going on. When we are at this level, each step is very difficult. It is therefore a good thing that we are discussing, debating and trying to find good ways forward.
i-c2b267abace0d136-578	Mrs. Old President! Finally, I would like to highlight a few issues on which we need to think more. In the work so far, there has been a very strong focus on car traffic and road traffic. To achieve the next step, we should focus – as I have already mentioned and as we have agreed – on vulnerable road users in other types of traffic environments. This will require increased attention. Today there is also an increasing problem in rail transport. To the numerary there are quite few people, but Trafikverket reports an increase in track running, i.e. that people stay on and at railway tracks without any reason for that. Of course, you take a huge risk when walking the dog on the embankment or playing in such areas. There is a need for a greater understanding and awareness that it is dangerous. Otherwise, we risk a further increase. There are also things in behaviour and risk situations over time that need to be taken into account in the continued road safety work. However, I am pleased that this is an issue that engages across party boundaries. I am convinced that we will continue to have a strong focus on road safety issues and a broad consensus on this in the Swedish Parliament.
i-c2b267abace0d136-582	Mrs. Old President! Edward Riedl has asked me in an interpellation whether the Western Link will be part of the national infrastructure plan and in another interpellation when I intend to begin the construction of the Western Link in Umeå. Since both intersections are about the Western link in Umeå, I choose to answer them in a context. First of all, I would like to highlight two errors in Edward Riedl's interpellations – both that the national infrastructure plan would be delayed and that the Government has given the Swedish Transport Administration a directive to reconsider 20 infrastructure projects already decided are allegations that are not true. Work on developing a new national traffic cross-border plan for the development of the transport system is progressing, and the Government expects to establish the plan in spring 2018, fully according to plan. At the interpellation debate on 13 October 2016 on the Swedish Transport Administration's mission to develop a specialization basis for infrastructure planning, I was also clear that the Government has not given the Swedish Transport Administration a directive to reconsider individual objects. The named object E4/ E12 Umeå consists of three parts: the Eastern Link, the Northern Link and the Western Link and is part of the national traffic law-crossing plan for the development of transport systems for the period 2014-2025. The Eastern Link and the Northern Link have already been completed and opened for traffic. The western link is the third and final stage. On 25 January 2017, the Finnish Transport Agency decided to establish the road plan for the Western Link stage. The Finnish Transport Agency's decision can be appealed to the Government. One of the prerequisites for building the road is that the road plan has gained legal force.
i-c2b267abace0d136-585	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. My hope is that we can make this the shortest debate today. The Finnish Transport Agency is currently preparing the national infrastructure plan. It shall then be determined by the Government. I really have only one question: can the Minister now guarantee – she has not been able to – that the Western Link should be built and not removed from the national plan? This will be today's shortest debate if the Minister only answers yes and that she can guarantee that the Western Link in Umeå will not be removed from the national plan but will be present when the government determines it.
i-c2b267abace0d136-588	Mr President, I would like to The Western Link is an ongoing project in the current national plan. But just as I have said, and will say so, I guess, several more occasions forward, I do not anticipate the decision to be made in spring 2018 on which objects should be included in the next national plan. Answers to that, Edward Riedl and everyone else will have to wait until spring 2018. For the Western Link there is now a road plan. It has been appealed, which the Finnish Transport Administration has anticipated. I expect the process to continue as planned.
i-c2b267abace0d136-590	Mr President, I would like to The reason I ask the question is that it has been discussed and debated not least locally in Umeå. It's no wonder because this is the last piece of the puzzle to get a functioning ring trail around a rapidly growing Umeå. I saw in the latest statistics on population growth that Umeå is even growing faster than Stockholm County. We have very rapid growth, and we need to get this in place in order to get operational traffic flows. I understand from the municipal councillor in Umeå, Hans Lindberg, who is a social democrat and a party colleague of the Minister, that this is now clear and that there are no threats, but the Western link will be included in the national plan. The local media have interviewed the Minister and when I have read what the newspapers write it is about the same thing I have been able to read: This is for sure. But every time I debate the subject in this House, Mr President, I do not get the last part of the answer. Here in the Swedish Parliament, the Minister can no longer guarantee that the Western Link will be included. There is some ambiguity in this. Why, then, am I constantly here debating the issue? Yes, because when this government took over 20 decided but did not start road projects in Sweden would be tested according to new criteria at Trafikverket. When I look at what things went through in the change of criteria, I guess this was a concession to the Green Party. I get a little worried when someone who belongs to a party who wants to complete the ring trail changes the criteria and reconsiders the projects. As I said, Mr President, this debate could be very brief if what has already been said in the local newspapers back in Västerbotten is correct. The Social Democratic Council guarantees that he has received promises from the government that this will be completed. As far as I can interpret what the Minister has said in the media, she has in principle promised journalists that this will be completed. But every time I try to get this answer in the Chamber – a simple yes would have sufficed for us to have the shortest debate today – the Minister does not want to anticipate the decisions. If it is 100% certain that the Western Link will be completed, it should be easy to say in this House too: Yes, the Western Link will be there when the government sets the national plan. However, the Minister does not want that. Then there are concerns in my mind as to whether this will be completed under this government. It is no secret that the present government, with social democrats and environmentalists, sometimes finds it difficult to get along. I understand that environmentalists do not like roads very much. It probably causes a lot of problems when your two parties are to be coordinated in the government. But it also makes us out in the country worried when it seems that previously decided but not started road projects could suddenly fall out of the plan. It would be very unfortunate, not least for Umeå, which is growing very fast and needs a functioning ring trail. There you need to get this in place. I understand that I will not receive such an answer, so there is no point in extending the debate further. I say as I have said before: I hope the Minister is working to ensure that the last part of the ring road, the Western Link, is included in the national plan.
i-c2b267abace0d136-599	Mr President, I would like to The fact that the issue has been debated in the local media may possibly have its explanation in the fact that Edward Riedl has been a bit uncalled for on a number of occasions has been agitated that this might not happen. It's a little for nothing. We have not met the concerns that Edward Riedl is talking about in anyone other than Edward Riedl. I shall, however, try to put an end to this concern once again. This is an ongoing project. It was a bit unclear when you gave the assignment but already then this was an object started in the current national plan. In this sense, it can be said that it is not even covered by the very general mandate given to the Swedish Transport Administration. Since what Edward Riedl constantly wants to know about are the identified objects that will be included in the next national cross-road plan, which runs from 2018 to 2029, the answer will continue to be the same, regardless of which object Edward Riedl asks: Such a message will come in spring 2018. Now I have answered the question about the Western Link very many times and have said that it is going on and that there is a decision on a road plan. Work continues. I hope that Edward Riedl's concern may also be satisfied with this message.
i-c2b267abace0d136-603	Mr President, I would like to Let me be clear: My concern is still when the asphalt is in place, the road is open and the traffic around Umeå can flow on. The minister says I don't have to worry. At the same time, she cannot give a clear answer. That doesn't make any sense to me. The fact that I'm the only one who's worried is not true. We in the opposition are looking at what the government is doing, because that's how we work. We look at what the government is developing and what documents form the basis for how the Swedish Transport Administration will work. In the investigation criteria received by the Finnish Transport Administration, some of the criteria had changed. It was clear that projects would be re-examined according to new criteria. It is not something that I have made up, but I took the help of the parliamentary investigation service, which consists of non-political officials who give us qualitative help and find out how it actually is. The Moderates asked them what impact the government has made and sent to Trafikverket could have on the national level. The answer that came back to us was very simple, Mr President. They line up all the projects, of which the Western Link was one, and said that these were the projects that the Swedish Transport Administration had to look at and reconsider according to the new criteria. This is not a cause for concern, it is for real. If you want to eliminate the uncertainty that you create when making such changes, you should say what you want and what you mean. You could say: No, Edward, you don't have to worry, because the Western link will be completed. But the Minister doesn't want to say that. So there remains concern until the asphalt is in place or we have a new government that actually wants to complete this project.
i-c2b267abace0d136-610	Mr President, I would like to I guess I'll try it one more time. The western link in Umeå is not part of the group of 20 objects that were not started when the assignment was given. It was part of the group started objects, because it all forms part of the same project. That is why this is a completely irrelevant question. But which items the government will prioritise in the next national plan, you will have to wait until spring 2018 to find out about. Now I hope it became clear and that Edward Riedl can also go home and celebrate the weekend with calmness in the body.
i-c2b267abace0d136-612	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me if I am prepared to work to ensure that a larger proportion of the road network in Västerbotten County will be approved for the new bearing strength class than is the result of the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal. Edward Riedl has also asked me what initiatives I am prepared to take to meet the need for forestry to transport its products on the roads of Västerbotten. The Government has decided on 16 February 2017 on a freight bill. It proposes a new class of bearings, BK4, which allows heavy-duty vehicles to travel more than is possible today. This means that parts of the road network where transport by rail or shipping is not possible will be open to trucks with a total weight of 74 tonnes. This can lead to more efficient transport, a better competitive situation for Swedish hauliers and benefits for the business community. The legislation is proposed to enter into force on 1 July this year. Traffic with 74 tonne trucks is expected to start within a year. It is the Finnish Transport Agency that decides on the classification of state roads in bearing classes. The Swedish Transport Agency has been tasked by the Government to investigate the conditions for the introduction of a new load class on roads where alternative modes of transport are not possible. The Swedish Transport Agency proposes that the opening of a road network for BK4 takes place in a step-by-step and responsible manner where the future values of the infrastructure are not at risk and where relevant vehicle requirements are applied that contribute to ensuring that accessibility and safety are not jeopardised. If an extension of the road network becomes current, Trafikverket proposes that it be planned and prioritised in close cooperation with the business community and forest counties. A well-functioning transport infrastructure is important, and the Government's ambitions are high. Therefore, the government has now implemented strong initiatives in the infrastructure bill that will lead to a new national traffic cross-border plan for the development of the transport system for the period 2018 – 2029. We do this because the right investments in transport infrastructure are building Sweden strong and sustainable for the future, which means that more people have access to more climate-smart and competitive transport. This promotes jobs and development throughout the country.
i-c2b267abace0d136-616	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. This government wants to introduce a mile tax. They want to increase diesel taxes. You want to increase your gas taxes. There is also a desire to introduce a flight tax. It is taxation of distance, and it is an anti-Norrland policy. I usually bring it up many times, because the policy this government wants to conduct and intends to conduct is very damaging to my part of Sweden. Only the kilometre tax risks making about 30% of Swedish productive forest unprofitable. In the end, we are talking about 35 billion in reduced export revenues to our country. That's a lot of money. The Alliance had a proposal to allow heavier trucks. It could counteract some of the negative effects of this anti-Norrland government's policy of taxing distances. But, Mr President, the government tried to oppose this as much as possible. I do not doubt the Social Democrats on this issue, but they cooperate in the cooperation government with the Green Party, which is against everything that is good for Norrland. Then my thought is: if you have heavier trucks, we know that the environment is getting better, because a truck can pull more goods. It also reduces the emissions resulting from the transport of goods. It strengthens Swedish competitiveness, as you can transport more with fewer people. We know that. And that is what has built Sweden strong. When fewer people can do more, it ultimately generates more jobs in this country, then we become more competitive. The alternative is to go the reverse way and make us less competitive and less productive. There will then be fewer jobs, and we will also be a poorer country. I was happy when the government finally agreed to this. It was well that the Social Democrats some late evening forced the Green Party to do this because they had announcements from the Riksdag. But I am now seriously concerned, Mr President, by the proposal that the government intends to put forward. It will open approximately 10 per cent of the state road network in Norrbotten and 14 per cent of the state road network in Västerbotten. Everything else is closed to this traffic. I understand if it is in the light of the fact that the roads do not keep as they do not open the road network at once. Then you need to spend more money over time to open it, and it is above all the bridges it is about. But for Norrbotten and Västerbotten, the two major losers in this government's policy of introducing taxes from a distance, one opens a very small part of the state road network. The explanation is that there is a railway track running parallel. This means that this reform will in practice be ineffective for our part of Sweden. All the government's harmful policies, with mileage taxes, increased diesel taxes, increased petrol taxes and air taxes, all that we are going to endure in the deterioration of this government, could, with the Alliance's proposal, at least to some extent be countered. However, proposals are being put in place that will not make this possible. We will not open the road network in our part of the country. Mr President, I would like to Why does the government do this? What do you have against Norrland? What do you have against us? What is opposed to the jobs that exist in our part of the country? I cannot possibly understand why we do not want to open the state road network in the part of the country where this would strengthen competitiveness most.
i-c2b267abace0d136-624	Mr President, I would like to The government has nothing at all against Norrland or those who live there. This also applies to other sparsely populated parts of Sweden. In fact, it is not the case that rural areas only exist in northern Sweden, although Edward Riedl often tries to do so. In addition, the population structure is very different in different parts of Norrland, as Edward Riedl, who lives there, reasonably knows. I believe that the Moderates are also behind the environmental objective preparation which submitted its final report last autumn. The government is now working on developing a climate law. It would be interesting to hear at some point whether the Moderates also support the government's increased ambition, which is that Sweden will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. If you are behind the Environmental Objectives Committee and have ambitions to change Sweden to secure a life for future generations on our planet, you also need to look at what measures are needed. It is inevitable that the transport sector accounts for a very high proportion of the climate emissions that are taking place in Sweden today. Then we need to take measures to reduce those climate emissions. I don't really think it's that hard. We need to use a variety of tools to achieve this. Price for different things that we think are less good is one way to work. But that's not the only thing that's done, and Edward Riedl knows it too. There is now quite a big investment in both urban environment agreements, where the government co-finances public transport investments, and the Climate Centre, where it helps with different types of climate investments, for example in charging infrastructure. We will need transport in the future. It will be just as necessary to get goods and people moving in our country in the future as it is today. But fossil fuels cannot be part of the transport system of the future. I hope we agree on this, although I understand the will to make this a different issue on this particular issue. As far as the substance of the matter itself is concerned, it can first be noted that Edward Riedl and others from the Moderates in particular, but also other bourgeois parties, tend to point out that Finland decided on heavier trucks already in 2013. Then a friend of order may ask himself what prevented the then bourgeois government from doing the same thing in Sweden. The then bourgeois government did not take such initiatives and did not make such decisions. The current government has decided on a higher load class, BK4, so that we can allow heavier trucks on our roads. We have also done so in two stages. First, we increased the total weight of what is called bearing class 1 roads to 64 tonnes to enable more efficient transport. We have now moved on to allow 74 tonnes of traffic in designated parts of the road network that can withstand it and where we are not in danger of being transferred from other modes of transport, such as shipping and rail. When it comes to exactly which roads will eventually be considered for the heavier load class, it is the Swedish Transport Administration that makes an assessment of it and how we will do it in a responsible way and without getting a transfer from the railway. I hope that we agree on this somewhere too.
i-c2b267abace0d136-632	Mr President, I would like to Let me first say that it was the Alliance that put forward the proposal on heavy goods vehicles. We have made announcements from a majority in Parliament, and the Social Democrats have been against. So we have dragged the government behind us in Parliament to get the government to present the proposals. I do not doubt the Social Democrats, as I said. But I think it was quite difficult to get the Green Party on this, and that took time. I'm very happy that it's now in place. What worries me is that the reform is being made very bad. A good proposal goes with the wrong wording to do really bad in the end. What happens is that environmental objectives can be achieved more easily if we allow heavier trucks. Why? Because less fuel is used to transport the same quantity of goods. With heavier trucks, we save the environment. With heavier trucks we increase Swedish competitiveness. It's basically very good. How does making Swedish forests unprofitable improve the environment while Finnish becomes much stronger in terms of competition? This government will continue to increase diesel taxes. This has already been started, and it will continue. It is also intended to introduce a kilometre tax. All of this reduces Swedish competitiveness and makes Swedish forests less profitable. The forest industry itself has calculated that with your policy about 30 percent of Swedish forests will be unprofitable. This with heavier trucks could counteract some of the deterioration. But then the minister and her government choose to do the opposite so that they do not introduce this in the northern part of Sweden where it is most needed because we there have the longest distance to handle. I find it very hard to understand. I'm listening to the minister. Between the lines, the Minister tries to say that the Finnish Transport Administration will decide this. Let us be clear: it is the government that has commissioned the Finnish Transport Administration to open the road network on the basis of the criteria that have been set up. With the criteria that the Environmental Party has probably managed to get into the government's wording, this will result in approximately 14 per cent of the road network in Västerbotten being opened by the state and 10 per cent in Norrbotten. It is the government that lays the hook for the Swedish Transport Administration to implement the reform that the Riksdag has told the Government to implement. Well, let's get back to how to handle it in a practical way. But it was not the order of a parliamentary majority. It is one way of trying to destroy a fundamentally good reform. Mr President, I would like to Then I agree with the Minister when she said that it is not only northern Sweden that is adversely affected by the government's policy. Perhaps I should have been clearer about this. This kind of policy strikes a distance. Of course, an elongated sparsely populated country in Europe's periphery does not benefit from taxes from a distance. Not anywhere in Sweden is this a good policy. I was just trying to point out that Norrland is hit even harder than the rest of the country. But of course the government's policy is negative also for the rest of Sweden, so that it is also clear.
i-c2b267abace0d136-639	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, reality is the worst enemy of Moderates in these contexts. Sweden is doing very well, and it is doing well for very large parts of Sweden. We have falling unemployment and a very high employment rate. Almost all companies in all industries say that their greatest threat to growth and development is that they lack the right skills. In any case, the government has clearly done the right thing, and that is a good thing. I believe that we should wait for the proposals that the government intends to put forward before evaluating them. We need to ensure that we get better monitoring of heavy traffic on Swedish roads. We know that there is far too much unserious competition in the industry. We need to ensure that heavy traffic, both Swedish and foreign trucks, pays for the damage to the roads that it causes. We need more instruments that simply make it more attractive to choose more environmentally friendly transport. I hope that Edward Riedl will agree with this, even though, as I said earlier, Edward Riedel, in this debate too, completely refrains from touching on the small challenge we have in common, which is the climate threat to our planet. We have made this decision because we are convinced that 74 tonne trucks have exactly the positive effects that Edward Riedl also highlights. You can drive with fewer cars and thus get more efficient goods handling that benefits both those who buy the transport and those who do the transport and not least our common environment. When implementing such a decision, it needs to be ensured that the entire route indicated is capable of having that type of heavy-duty vehicle. It is, as Edward Riedl rightly points out, above all, bridges that may have bearing problems. I hope again that we agree that we do not want to see more goods going by road and less by rail. We see that there is value in and is important that we ensure good competitive conditions for the most energy efficient and least climate-affected transport solutions. That is why the government has said that we want to see this change. But we also want to do so in a way that ensures that we do not have an unwanted transfer so that it will be relatively cheaper to transport by truck and relatively more expensive by rail and shipping. I hope that we can agree on this in essence. I'm sorry Edward Riedl sounds so angry when he's happy. I am quite happy about the reform and quite proud that we have arrived with it. I think it's going to be very good. I have noticed that there are quite a few others who are also happy that the reform is coming. I feel very confident that the Swedish Transport Administration has both the expertise and the contacts required to carry out the task in a wise and balanced way.
i-c2b267abace0d136-645	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is doing well. We are in complete agreement on this. Nine years of alliance budgets have, of course, laid a pretty good foundation for that, and on that we have a global boom. It is difficult to destroy this in a very short time. Anyway, let's talk about what's the main issue. We fully agree on the unfair and illegal foreign competition on our roads. On the other hand, we do not fully agree on how to deal with these things. I do not understand why those who today come from other countries and do not comply with Swedish laws and regulations, do not pay Swedish taxes and charges, would suddenly follow another new law. I believe, contrary to the fact that the government's mileage tax will cause one of Europe's most taxed industries to have another tax to deal with in a country with long distances. This will not lead to more Swedish jobs. This will not lead to better competitiveness. On the contrary, it will knock out those who behave. We Moderates have come up with suggestions for how to do it instead. I myself have been involved in this and am a little proud of those very proposals. Instead, we propose that we have GPS surveillance of all foreign traffic crossing Swedish borders. But a gps-puck we can make sure that you comply with Swedish laws and regulations and make sure you pay the taxes and fees you should make. It's a modern way of dealing with the problem. Let me be clear about the climate threat. Of course we're going to do this. This with heavier trucks is a reform that basically makes us better aware of the environment. It's drawing less energy. It is difficult to move forests and forest transport to rail. That goes without saying. I asked the Minister of Finance earlier today. She did not want to exclude, as far as I can understand, either the forest or Norrland from the mileage tax. The Minister for Infrastructure does not want us in Norrland to take advantage of the benefits of the reform. Instead, a good reform has been made very bad. I'm a little angry about that. I am, of course, pleased with the reform but a little angry that the Minister wants to destroy it.
i-c2b267abace0d136-651	Mr President, I would like to It's good that we're happy. I am also very pleased that the forest industry is pleased that the decision has been made and also other large parts of the business community. They appreciate that it will come and that they can now start preparing for the investments in new trucks that will be required. This will have a further positive effect, namely that the trucks that will be able to carry the larger weights will be, for the most part, new trucks with higher efficiency and better engines and thus also lower fuel consumption and emissions. You could say that there will be win-win-win in this regard. This is a great reform. The reform is to be implemented in a way so that we have exactly the positive effects of it that we want and that we minimise as much as possible the risks that exist because we could have a transfer. I repeat that I am convinced that the Finnish Transport Administration will be able to deal with this in a good way. There are other things we do at the same time. We have announced that we will develop a good strategy. I believe that it is necessary to see the needs of the whole of freight transport in Sweden in a comprehensive, intermodal way and with the different logics and needs that exist in different sectors, which of course are extremely different from each other. We need to jointly make the necessary decisions to ensure both good accessibility throughout Sweden and to respond to the climate threat that otherwise risks eliminating all human threats in the future.
i-c2b267abace0d136-657	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me if there is a promise of SEK 6 billion to the route between Umeå and Skellefteå in the next national plan. The Government has stated in the 2017 budget bill that Norrbotniabanan is a strategically important initiative. Rail investments such as this contribute to the Government's goal of both higher employment and new industrialisation as well as reduced climate and environmental impacts. The Government therefore intends to implement the construction start of Norrbotniabanan 2018 with the stage Umeå – Dåva. On 6 October 2016, the Government decided on the proposal Infrastructure for the future – innovative solutions for strengthening competitiveness and sustainable development, with proposals for financial frameworks and orientations for the period 2018-2029 to the Riksdag. The Riksdag decided on 13 December 2016 to establish the framework proposed by the Government. Following the decision of the Riksdag, work is now continuing on action plans, which will lead to a new national traffic cross-border plan for the development of the transport system 2018 – 2029. The action plan identifies the items to be prioritised. The Government intends to establish the plan in spring 2018. I cannot anticipate this planning work.
i-c2b267abace0d136-659	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I follow local media, just as I think all other MPs do. I also follow the local and regional debate at home in Västerbotten very closely. I was pleased on 2 February this year when the municipal councillor in Skellefteå, social democrat and also the Chairman of the Norrbotniabane Group, Lorents Burman, declared that he had received a promise from Prime Minister Stefan Löfven that a certain amount of money – quite exactly 6 billion – would be given to the Norrbotnia Line. Mr President, I would like to I then looked for whether there was somewhere in some public document or some government memo where this money was set aside. I haven't been able to find anything like that. I assume, of course, that SVT, with the resources at its disposal, will do a thorough job, and, of course, if you go out with this type of data, I assume that they are correct. Nor would I doubt a Social Democratic councillor and believe that he is going with untruth. But here we are, at least, with the question that there was a promise of EUR 6 billion. Mr President, I would like to Then I'd like to know a few things. Is that right? Has Lorents Burman received a promise of 6 billion from the government? And if so, what period of time are these EUR 6 billion? That is what some say about the pace of construction that is envisaged by the government. I am very curious, Mr President. I think this is an exciting debate, and I would very much like to hear what the Minister has to say. Has there been a promise of 6 billion to Lorents's Burman? And if so, when will the money come, and during what period of time can it be used?
i-c2b267abace0d136-663	Mr President, I would like to The Government has promised to start Norrbotniabanan with the first stage Umeå – Dåva during the current term of office. We intend to honour this promise. Otherwise, there are no promises of what the future will look like. On the other hand, it is in the direction of danger that funds are not put in place to complete only an industrial track, but the government's declared ambition is to complete the entire Norrbotnia railway. We have also written this in the budget proposal before. However, there is still no timetable for this. As with the Western Link and all other individual objects, I will not anticipate the work ahead of us in prioritising different objects and putting them against each other in the cross-road national plan. These messages will be received in spring 2018. This means that the answer to the question is: No, there are no promises of any 6 billion or any other concrete promises in that way. There is a clear ambition for Norrbotniabanan to be built. Even if you interpret the interview hard, this is not what is said: that there is a promise of 6 billion. What is expressed in the interview referred to during the debate is that it assumes that there will be money to build and that it could be about 6 billion. I can agree that it is unfortunate when it is presented in this way, but quite as large shifts as Edward Riedl chooses to draw on this in the debate, there is perhaps no reason, after all, to draw.
i-c2b267abace0d136-667	Mr President, I would like to I don't mean to overwhelm you. I am, of course, very pleased if money is set aside for infrastructure in my home country. I do what I think most Members of Parliament are doing: I basically ignore which government is building infrastructure in my home country. I'm happy for everything that's being built. That is why I was pleased with the feature which showed that 6 billion had been said, and I was thinking about when the money would come and what period of time. Mr President, I would like to However, I understand the Minister so that no promise of EUR 6 billion has been made to Lorents Burman, and that is really what my question was about. So he has simply not received this promise of 6 billion. The debate is ready for me. Thank you.
i-c2b267abace0d136-669	Mr President, I would like to Then I can only finish wishing Edward Riedl a nice weekend, because now it is Friday afternoon and we get to go out in the sun and home. I can also give the little tip to vote socially next time. If you want infrastructure investments also in the northern counties, it is a much safer card to vote S than M; this has been demonstrated with all the clarity that is desirable in the previous eight years. Norrbotniabanan could have started already if we had not unfortunately changed government in 2006. I would also like to thank you for the debate and wish you a pleasant weekend.
i-c2b267abace0d136-672	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your kind greeting. I don't think I'm going to vote Social Democratically. However, I will consider this if the Minister wishes. It's better to promise what you know you can keep. I know that the previous alliance government did. I can say so far that not a single metre of track is laid by Norrbotniabanan. That's a lot of beautiful words. There is no promise of 6 billion to Lorents Burman, there is no rail line and you have not got started with the Western link. I think I'll bet my vote on the Moderates even in the next election. Then I know there'll be delivery on what's promised. I would like to wish Mr President-in-Office of the Council a very good weekend and, of course, the Minister too. Thank you for the debate. We've agreed on a lot, not everything, but a lot.
i-c2b267abace0d136-677	Mr President, I would like to I would like to wish the Presidium a pleasant weekend. I wish the same to Edward Riedl. I think Edward Riedl knows you don't start by laying tracks without starting investigations. The rails will eventually come.
