i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-4	Mr President, I would like to Then it is time for us in the Committee on Justice to deal with the motions that have been raised in the police field. In this area, many forms of exercise have been raised on many different issues. This shows that we, as members of the Swedish Parliament, have a great interest in the good functioning of Swedish police and law enforcement. Of course, we do not agree on everything, but we very much agree that there is a need for a well-functioning police authority and that citizens should be able to have a great deal of confidence in the police. This gives us a good starting point in our discussions. In terms of trust, the police, along with a lot of other professionals in the terrorist attack, soon two weeks ago, showed that they are well prepared to deal with that kind of event. Despite all the fear, anxiety, and grief for those affected, we could see that everyone was doing a very fine job. Because we're so proud of that. It showed that the police were ready and that when they were needed in the toughest of situations they were there. Every rose that has been handed over to the police by citizens who felt grateful has much faith. The same feeling of confidence in the police, while the grief for the deed was great, also appeared a year and a half ago when a person chose to carry out an attack at a school in Trollhättan where three people lost their lives. It was another extraordinary event in which the police also made a very good effort that they had trained for – just as we expect. This shows that those who say that the police in Sweden can't do anything, can't do anything and are not there are wrong out there. But we also know that there are times when there is a disappointment when the police do not solve cases in the way that the victim would expect the police to do. This may, for example, involve traders who are exposed to repeated thefts or other causes the desire to pursue a business to be reduced. It may be a case of young people who repeatedly report that they have been exposed to things, such as various online abuse. Or it may be a question of the enormous irritation you can feel when the bike has been stolen again and you do not even have the energy to report because the chance is so small that the registration would lead to something. This is more about a need for additional resources than anything else. It is also something that the police themselves testify to. Talking about police results is not simply. I would like to say something about such policemen often talk to us politicians about. It may be a little politically sensitive, but I think it has to be said. It is true that the vision is that 100% of all crimes should be solved, but I think we all understand that there are many reasons why it is difficult. Sometimes we all – no one mentioned and no one forgotten – fall into a simple political rhetoric in which we demand that the police solve more crimes than they do. Don't get me wrong; we think that more crimes should be solved, and we want good results. But what is it? Is it always the highest figure we should look at, or could it be something else too? We know that there are ways to improve statistics for solved crimes by focusing, for example, on traffic offences, which can give fine figures quickly. But we really want the police to spend a lot of their resources on certain crimes, such as child abuse. It is work that is insanely resource-intensive, carried out for a long time and gives low figures in relation to the resources invested – as opposed to, for example, traffic offences. But we still think it's the right priority for the police to work that way. What I mean is, we have to be able to look behind the numbers. I do not want us to try to trump each other about the police's results in figures to make wrong priorities with the police's resources. It is true that figures do not lie, but you can interpret them in a slightly different way. We must also be able to do so. Yesterday, a press release from the Swedish Police Authority announced that from now on some results will be presented openly on the website each month, so-called more open results report. Everyone can go into the police.se. I have looked at the results of the first three months of the year, and there is a comparison with last year. We can see that the number of cases reported to prosecutors has increased by nearly 6%. Of the processed cases, the proportion reported to prosecutors has decreased slightly. The number of open cases has increased by nearly 4 per cent. The response time on the phone to the Police Contact Centre was on average 4 minutes and 25 seconds, compared to last year, when they were 12 minutes – speaking of things getting better. This debate is taking place in the middle of work on our spring amending budgets. As you know, the government has announced an increase of 700 million for this year and nearly 4 billion for four years for the POlis and the Security Service. There is a need for an increase, which is simple, among other things, in order for the olisen last year to employ more staff than was anticipated. Then we'll have to make money. In addition, the government wants to increase the number of employees in the public sector, both police and civil servants, over the next few years. This is also something on which we agree in this Chamber, and we are well aware of the discussion that prevails about the attractiveness of the police profession. The proposed addition of money, and an always active police association, means that there should now be good opportunities to find good solutions to the pay issue for the parties. The discussions on working conditions and the working environment for police officers are, of course, a priority. Let me say something about the exercise and the exercise treatment. We Social Democrats are in favour of our reservations, but I will not be in favour of them for the time to come. A reservation concerns the right of police officers to compensation for violations. The reason we have chosen to reserve ourselves is simply that there is an investigation looking at the issue right now, the Bluelight investigation. The long name is A modern criminal law protection for bluelight personnel and other societal functions. The investigation is working right now. So it is not that we do not take this issue seriously; it is exactly the opposite. That's why the investigation exists. There are a lot of motion proposals on weapons. I was gonna say a few things about guns. The government has commissioned the Police Authority to create the conditions for combating illegal weapons and explosives. That assignment shall be reported in one year's time. The government intends to issue a new arms amnesty next year. As the EU weapons directive is under way, an investigator will be tasked with analysing how the directive is to be implemented in Swedish law. The investigator will then also be asked to look at other arms-related issues with the aim of maintaining the level of protection but shortening the processing times, for example that arms dealers can be given additional tasks in uncomplicated arms-exchange cases. It's something that I think can help. Last month, there were also results showing that the Police Authority has reduced waiting times for the handling of weapons permits. For hunting weapons, the waiting time is three weeks, which is good. Yesterday some of my colleagues in the Committee on Justice visited Noa, the National Operations Department, in the p olisen. Those policemen highlighted three measures that they say would make a big difference in police work. It was about greater possibilities for camera surveillance – there is an investigation under way right now – and better opportunities to keep people in custody in the event of gun crimes, which is also under way with changes in legislation, as well as the issues that the so-called blue light investigation is looking at. It felt good that we delivered on the points that the police mentioned yesterday. I would like to finish where I started – with terrorism. In February, the government appointed a special investigator to review the criminal law of terrorism. It is important that we have effective and effective criminal law. The current regulations have been introduced on a number of occasions, and this has led us to have legislation that is not sufficiently coherent or transparent. A systematic review will be able to give us new and better regulation in the future. Finally, I would like to highlight what Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson said about the government now taking the initiative to investigate criminalising participation in support of a terrorist organisation.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-25	Mr President, I would like to For time winning, I limit myself to requesting the approval of reservation no. 3 despite the fact that we on the Moderate side have far more reservations, both ourselves and with others. Mr President, I would like to I would like to add my voice to Elin Lundgren's words of praise about how the Swedish police have acted the last week after the terrible deed that we saw. When it came down to it, you were there. They intervened quickly, they intervened resolutely and they intervened in a way that aroused respect among the Swedish people. It was good for the Swedish police to get the recognition they now got, a recognition not primarily from our side but from those they are set to serve: the Swedish people. You're well worth the praise you've been given. At the same time, like Elin Lundgren, I must point out that somewhere there is also a daily life, where citizens assume that things actually happen when they are victims of crime – that criminal reports are taken up, that crime scene investigations are actually carried out and that feedback is being sought on those who have been victims. Unfortunately, we can see here that over a long period of years we have seen a reduction and that today we are on very low figures in terms of crime resolution. Then we can discuss statistics and how statistics should be designed, but according to the statistics we have available, the clearance has never been as low as it is now. That is why, of course, we expect an improvement. The police have gone through and are still undergoing a reorganisation. It has been said that it is ready now, but a lot points to a little more than half of it being ready. Much of the work remains to be done. It is important that the police have peace of mind, that there are clear and clear procedures and that there is clear leadership so that the police can continue to work in such a positive way that they continue to get the Swedish people's positive response. There is a great deal that we as politicians can do to facilitate this. We have the inflamed issue of wages, which has been raised. As politicians, of course, we should not get involved in wage movements, but it is absolutely clear that the more people who note and observe that the wage situation is bad and that the attractiveness of the profession is therefore low, the more we politicians need to take up the height in order to adjust this. On the part of the Moderates we did this as the first party already in the budget bill last autumn. Several have fallen behind. That is a good thing; it is a good thing. As politicians, we must take budgetary responsibility for this to be resolved. The government has not done so – so far – despite the so-called increase in the budget that came the other day, which I shall return to. We need to take heights to invest more in the crime of the new era, the Internet-related crime. This is where the police lag behind in terms of knowledge. Of course, there are people who are good at it, but they are far too few. It is also far too often that specialized knowledge is used for too basic purposes because the basic knowledge of the entire organization is too low. A stronger effort must be made here. We already pointed out in our budget motion to the budget proposal the need for this and allocated more funds. I think we need to take even greater heights, because this kind of crime is exploding. It is becoming increasingly refined, and more and more people are being exposed to it. It's hard to figure out. We can only meet this by increasing the competence and knowledge of the organisation. When we support the Swedish police, this means that we should also have the courage to make demands. That is why I would like to come back to the fact that, of course, we should have views on the effectiveness of the police in relation to certain parts. We're going to have some comments on the resolution of crime. It is not primarily a way of criticising the police, it is a way of supporting the police in the development of the police. The Police Authority is one of the pillars of our democracy. It is the authority that should provide security. It's supposed to intervene when things like those that happened last week happen. This means that we as politicians have to deal with the police with a great deal of seriosity. There I am a little concerned about the hopes of the government parties, the commitments they make and what they actually achieve. I'm worried about that. The previous government adopted a target of a minimum of 20,000 police officers. The reason for this was that you should not be able to use the police as a budget regulator. That is, when money is needed elsewhere, you can quickly reduce the number of employees. That's why that goal was important. For this government, one of the first steps was to remove that target. Although the government is talking about more police officers, we see in practice that today we have not even reached the target of 20 000 police officers. We have less than 20,000 police officers this day. That is why the objective remains important. Parliament has announced this, which the government obviously ignores. That is regrettable. Some oseriosity can be seen when the same government that does not want a minimum target of 20 000 police officers says that it should now have 10 000 more police officers. Yeah, I think it's a good thing you want more cops. That's what we want, too. We want to maintain the police density that we wanted to achieve with 20 000 police officers, but we have noted from our side that the population is growing so strongly that we have to start taking the height of 11 million inhabitants. That would mean that we should have about 25 000 police officers when the time comes. We recognise that this is a major strain, not least on the education system. There are a large number of police officers who need to get out. In this, the government proposes 10 000 police officers – while the same government is going to redo police training, make it longer and more academic. It will be an education system that will be adopted to the education primarily on academic merit rather than on its ability to carry out practical police work. I don't think that equation makes any sense. A number of new police training courses can be announced and promised, but it takes time to build them up. It is therefore an unrealistic objective, which in itself means that we are having a somewhat unserious discussion about such an important body as the Swedish police. I'm just as concerned when you play with the police's finances the way you do it. The other day it was established that we are now investing in the police in our budget – 700 million. But the truth is that this is not a venture. This is a compensation for the deliberately underfunded budget it has had this year. We already had that debate at that time. We noted that the money will not be enough, that the budget savings will not be enough, that the police will have to go on credit. Everyone knew it – the government knew it too. So what do you do now? Well, you make up for the black hole. But it's not a bet. It is a compensation for a deliberately underfunded budget. At the same time, the government says billions are being invested. Yes, but that promise does not apply to this term of office. That, Mr President, seems to me to be unseriously dealing with such an important authority as the Swedish police. Briefly on this report: there will be a couple of announcements. One relates to the violation compensation of police officers. That's a good thing. It's not okay to spit a cop in the face. The existing case law says that this is acceptable, and there is no compensation for it. Today's announcement gives us the opportunity to change this. It is not least a reference to the very committee that is going to work on blue light issues so that it actually gets to grips with this. We're getting an announcement that we're going to have to tighten up the penalties for gun smuggling. In a time and a discussion where it is said that it is harder to get a glass of water than a weapon in Malmö, we must be able to be tough on illegal weapons. That's where the gun smuggling is central. At the same time, we must be able to keep two thoughts in our heads. It is not by screwing up the lives of legal gun owners that we solve this problem. I regret that we do not have any announcements today which, at the same time, could make life easier by debureaucratising rules that are not needed. We do not have that majority today, and I miss it. I hope we will have it for next year. Finally, Mr President, I would also like to express a degree of disappointment. We have a number of announcements, but they could have been many more. For example, we could also have had an announcement to put an end to the recruitment of criminal networks. There the Swedish Democrats did not want to support the Alliance but go along the line of the Green Party. We could have received an announcement of acceptable processing times, not least when it comes to passport management and other things. There, the Swedish Democrats had also been able to support the Alliance but followed the Left Party's line. And you could have supported the part about the Customs Authority's powers. Theft goods taken out of the country is a major problem, and the Customs Administration has difficulty in taking action in these situations. You have to wait for the police. The Swedish Democrats could have acted there too, because that is a major problem. But the line of the Social Democrats was chosen. Finally, Mr President, there is a reservation concerning passports. We share all of this. That is a criticism of the government. We already have an announcement that the question of foreign passports, travel documents and UT cards should be reviewed. A united parliament has announced this. The government has not taken any preparatory measures whatsoever. We have chosen not to rekindle this alliance motion, because the announcement already exists. It's pretty pointless when the government doesn't do anything anyway. However, we returned with the latter in letter 75 and hope that the Constitutional Committee will express a strong criticism of the government's lack of action.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-56	Mr President, I would like to I would like to make it clear to Krister Hammarbergh that the government's move of 10,000 more employees at the Police Authority included both police and civilian employees. It is not defined that there should be exactly 10,000 police officers. I was also told by Hammarbergh that it was an unseriously budgeting and an unserious move. I would like to clarify what is unserious about this and why it is serious when the Moderates want to increase the number of police officers, unlike when we want to do so. For example, we have increased the capacity of police training. We have stated that we need to make sure that more people feel that it is precisely those who should apply for police training, such as foreign born and women, who are today a little under-represented. We need to work more with the possibility of studying to be a police officer remotely for people in, for example, the part of the country that I come from, Gävleborg, and perhaps also the part that Krister Hammarbergh comes from, northern Sweden. Anyone who is not able to move to become a police officer but would very much like to be a police officer and would do an excellent job should still be able to get into the training and complete it. We need to work on such things, and that is, of course, part of our plan. In what way is the Moderate plan so vastly different from ours?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-61	Mr President, I would like to We share the view of distance learning. I do not think that any politician has opposed this, but unfortunately the police authorities themselves shut it down. I think it's necessary. We have a big problem: we have ten applicants for each place of study, but we do not complete the education. It's severe chafing. Then it is appropriate to take some form of responsibility as a government for this. There are obviously chafing wounds between the Recruiting Authority and the Police Authority, and we can actually see that the same problem applies to the Armed Forces. There, I hope, in fact, it takes a lot of effort. Back to the difference: we are actually proposing sufficient budgetary resources not to have to go in and save the situation again and again. We do not go in with a conscious under-financing of the business and call for new jobs while not funding them. It's unserious. To then present a compensation for a deficit as if it were an effort is also dishonest. As for the number of employees, it was good that you came up with that clarification. So it's not 10,000 cops. Then I have to ask, how many more cops have you been thinking? What other categories of staff should these 10 000 be? And how will you manage to dimension police education while making it an academic education?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-65	Mr President, I would like to As far as the police budget is concerned, we should also remember that last year the Police Authority went with 350 million in surplus at the end of the year. But we agree that the police will need more money in the future, and that is also why we are firing. Changing things in spring or autumn change budgets or using grant credits is hardly unique to us; even previous governments have worked in this way. I could not hear an answer from Krister Hammarbergh to my question about what plan the Moderates have to get more policemen, unlike the one we have presented. I still wonder about that, Mr President.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-67	Mr President, I would like to I can tell you that the police went in deficit last year. In most businesses it is called deficit when spending more money than you get. In fact, there was a deficit last year, and Elin Lundgren can read it directly in the police's annual report. On the other hand, they say that they have a surplus, and by that they mean that they have saved money since before. However, this still means that deficits were made this year and surpluses were made in previous years. It is a little sloppy with those words, and probably it has been with political experts in the department who may not have studied finance. Then what's the difference between us? Well, we say we want 5 000 police officers; we have defined how many. I have not heard anything from the Social Democrats yet. Now, apparently, it's only 10,000 of something. We differ because we make a large enough budget. We do not need to compensate for a deliberately underfunded budget afterwards. And we are clear about police training: we are going to train police officers, not academics.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-69	Mr President, I would like to What was not allowed to happen to us has now happened: Drottninggatan, 7 April 2017. When we debate the motion report on police matters, there are many motions from the Swedish Democrats and some from the opposition parties that are linked to terrorism and prevention. As an individual party, the Swedish democrats have been asking for us to keep an eye on which foreigners are in our country throughout their term of office, and even before that. We have also requested that those who do not have the right to reside in our country should not be allowed to reside freely anyway, for example when there is an impediment to enforcement in the event of an expulsion decision. Unfortunately, there are several examples where people have been sentenced for terrorist crimes to prison and expulsion, but the expulsion has not been carried out. Then these people have been granted temporary residence permits and a duty to report to the police maybe once a week. Otherwise, they stay freely in our country, and that is the reality today. Convicted terrorists who are to be deported go around freely in our country with a duty to report to the police. When we have asked the Social Democrats over the years whether it really should be this way, we have been given the answer that the legislation is sufficient, because nothing has happened yet. Exactly so was the response of the representative of the Social Democrats in the Committee on Justice, Elin Lundgren, a couple of years ago in a debate on the law on special foreign control, when the Swedish Democrats called for tightening up that particular law. Our reservation on tightening up the Special Alien Control Act remains for this year. No other party has shown interest in supporting it. Mr President, I would like to This law deals with the possibility of expelling foreigners who pose a threat to national security or are feared to contribute to or carry out terrorist crimes in Sweden. We want expulsions under this law to be valid for life, always. Why wouldn't they apply for life, you might ask. Perhaps some of the government parties can answer that. Why should Sweden have a need to have the door a little open for people who have been expelled because they have been deemed to have the will and ability to commit terrorist crimes in our country? For the Swedish Democrats, we want that door to be permanently closed. Our country has no obligation to welcome anyone at all, at least people who have once been expelled from our country on very good grounds. There are simply people in this country who deserve to be kicked out and never ever welcomed back, and we are calling for that very attitude in the law on special foreign control. We also want the Swedish Security Service to have the right to decide when an expulsion by means of this law will take place. Today, it is the Migration Agency that has the decision-making power. We believe that the Security Service is the right place to decide such expulsion cases. And if there are reasons why we cannot expel people who pose a risk to our country's security, we want them to be held in custody. Today, as I have said, those in our society are free to report to the police. Sweden will of course try to draw up agreements with countries where these people can be expelled, but the main point is that potential or convicted terrorists with expulsion decisions should never be allowed to go freely in our country – not anywhere, not at any time, not ever. Mr President, I would like to We have a lot of other requirements in the reservation that, among other things, reduces the risk of such people being able to return under false identity and so on, but there is still no other party here that has shown interest in tightening up the law on special foreign control. When the Special Alien Control Act was debated in the Riksdag in 2015, the Social Democrats felt that the law worked well because nothing had yet happened. And so far we have not had any terrorist act where an offender was under restrictions through the law on special foreigner control in Sweden; that is true. The case at Drottninggatan on 7 April is not such an example, but the point is that, as elected representatives, we should identify inadequate legislation and remedy the shortcomings before anything happens. We have now been told, following the terrorist attack on 7 April, that the government is considering criminalising relations with terrorism. Morgan Johansson has called it a hole in the legislation that is now to be clogged. The Swedish Democrats proposed in a follow-up motion to the Government's terror laws in the autumn of 2015 to criminalise precisely relations with terrorist organisations, but it obviously required an act of terror before the government began to think about filling gaps in the law. We do not like the order that you constantly do something as a reaction to something that has happened. We prefer to anticipate problems and propose measures to avoid anything happening. It is therefore remarkable in my world that no other party sees obvious risks of allowing people who pose a threat of terror, for example, to live freely in society under very mild restrictions. The search warrant and notification may involve certain limitations, but, as you know, a terrorist attack can be carried out at short notice without any visible preparations, for example by hijacking a truck on a sunny afternoon in April. Mr President, I would like to We also have other reservations aimed at giving the Swedish Security Service greater opportunities to investigate whether asylum seekers pose a threat to Sweden and that the Swedish Security Service should be given the right to register, for example, people who sympathise with the Islamic State. We have also chosen to support the Moderate reservation on internal immigration controls. It is about the police actively finding people to be expelled – a work that the red-green parties criticized in opposition and meant that the police should not do. Internal immigration controls have fallen sharply since the Red-Green Government took power, and it has unfortunately facilitated the expulsion of illegal immigrants in our country, including the accused of the terrorist attack on 7 April. The government has now announced that it wants to inject 700 million into the budget of the police, and that is a good thing. The Swedish Democrats committed almost 1.5 billion more than the government to the police for 2017. Our budget effort also included a mission to the police to greatly increase internal foreigner controls. Although the Moderate reservation aims to give an expanded mandate to the police within the government's more limited funds, we believe that the work is important, and therefore we support that reservation, which unfortunately seems to be rejected by the other alliance parties. Mr President, I would like to In this report, too, we have a reservation on giving security officers more tools and powers. Orderkeepers have come to be an important complement in the work of maintaining order and order throughout our country. As you know, the government has underfunded the Police Authority during its term of office, when we would have had to expand as society's demands on the police have increased. Now we have a situation in which the necessary police presence in many parts of the country has been replaced by security guards, but the security guards, for obvious reasons, do not have the same powers as the police. In the current circumstances, we need to review the tools and powers of our security officers. One example is blue lights on security guards' vehicles. There are many situations where security guards need to come to the rescue quickly – escalating threatening situations against other security guards or other emergencies where security officers can make a difference between life and death. Another proposal in the reservation concerns the ability of security officers to use so-called OC spray. Under certain restrictions in certain situations it may be beneficial for security officers to use OC spray or pepper spray. This can prevent many violent situations from having serious consequences, both for those who cause trouble and, of course, for the security guards themselves, who may end up in many dangerous and vulnerable situations. We think it is time to really review the powers of our security guards, not least when we expect security guards to take greater responsibility to deal with threatening situations. Unfortunately, we seem to be entirely alone in this Parliament. However, you have a chance to vote for our reservation in the vote later today. Last but not least, I would like to highlight the arms issues dealt with in this report. We chose this year to present our arms movements – for example on extended arms wardrobe, the issue of five-year licenses, arms exchange licences, loan certificates, the storage of weapons and ammunition and a few more questions. It's about things that make things easier for hunters and sportsmen. We have experienced that perhaps the Moderates in particular have given positive signals on these issues. The report contains a number of similar motions from, among others, Sten Bergheden and several Moderates, but their party colleagues in the Committee on Justice chose not to support them. I find that a bit boring. These are relatively straightforward issues that we should be able to gather broader support for here in Parliament, but this year it was again only the Swedish Democrats who chose to support this series of motions. Of course, we welcome a new hold on these issues and would like to see coordination taking place within the Alliance so that, for once, we can make these proposals a reality. The opinion of the Swedish democrats has been clear throughout the term of office: legal ownership of arms does not constitute a risk or a problem. Terrorists or organised crime do not use hunting weapons at all, but these problems require other measures, as we have pointed out for a long time. It must be time for the parties that agree to this also to show support for it in practical action here in Parliament, by facilitating legal ownership of arms. Mr President, I would like to There are many reservations in this report. We support all our reservations. In an attempt to limit my claims, however, I choose to apply for acquiescence to something more than usual. Are you ready? I support reservations 18, 23, 26, 37, 38, 39, 41, 42, 43, 46, 48, 50, 51, 53, 54 and 55.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-93	Mr President, I would like to If you're not a professional boxer, you shouldn't have to accept a fist punch on your face at work-- I think most people agree. However, this is not the case under Swedish law today. Policemen are a professional group that should be able to withstand a great deal. It's them we send out when the rest of us can't, want or dare. It is the power of society that bears the state's monopoly of violence. They must expect tough situations, and they must be able to receive abuse and provocation without losing their temper. These are heavy demands, but these are demands that must be made to the police. In return, the rest of us must back them up with the means necessary for them to do their job well and safely. One piece is, of course, the resource issue – we in the Center Party have proposed significant additions this year. Another is the regulatory framework that they have to work within. Mr President, I would like to It seems that being a cop has become both harder and tougher. Many police officers I have talked to testify that more and better pre-work is needed to enable the prosecutors to take the process forward. A worrying development of crime in the area of gang crime, for example, makes the work more difficult and dangerous. Threats and violence against windlight personnel also appear, in a short time, to have become more common and grosser. Wage developments do not follow, although it is difficult to recruit police officers. I'm sure it's true, as many say, that you don't become a cop to get rich. But it is certainly one or other valuable talent that we are missing out on in the police force, given that, with current wages, it is difficult to compete in the housing market in, for example, our metropolitan areas. Only everything that has already been mentioned signals a serious state of law for the police and, by extension, the rule of law. Now the measure should be heaped, after Svea Court of Appeal has judged that a police officer must be prepared to accept a fist punch in the face. I do not want to review the judgment as such in any way. It is our courts that decide what is applicable law. But if this law is in force, I want to change it. In our statement of damages, this can be addressed. The reason I mention fist punches in the face is because it's a true story. The background is an incident in which two police officers intervene when a party degenerates in a big fight involving about thirty people. Both policemen are attacked themselves and receive blows and skulls. In the district court, damages are both awarded. In the Court of Appeal, however, one police officer, who had only one fist in the face, loses the compensation of SEK 5,000, as determined by the District Court. This, Mr President, is absolutely indecent. Today, we are making a decision to announce it to the government. This is a report on police matters, and there are many subjects. The issues of arms are largely raised here, and some of the proposals on the table are worth mentioning. Among all the ideas that I have raised to this point, I would particularly like to mention arms exchange licences. It is reasonable, Mr President, that someone who has a licence for a Class 1 weapon and wants to trade it for another Class 1 weapon can do so in a simplified process with the arms dealer and that it can be prepared in a way that does not have to burden the police unnecessarily. I would therefore like to support my reservation 49 under the paragraph on arms transfer licences. For some, it seems unnecessarily difficult to distinguish between legal and illegal weapons. It is quite rare for weapons owned by hunters and sportsmen to end up on the run and used for crime. Nevertheless, most of the political energy is being spent on tightening the regulatory framework around them. It is good and very welcome that we are tightening up the penalties for arms smuggling. This type of crime is, by its very nature, cross-border and must be combated cross-border. Europol has an extremely important role to play here. Bilateral cooperation between the Swedish police and Bosnian police, for example, has also been very successful in combating gangs involved in this type of social crime. We need to get better at getting illegal weapons off the streets. The development of our metropolitan areas in particular is very worrying, with a large number of criminal shootings, many with fatal outcome. It has to be turned around. There's no alternative. While we see how deadly gang violence has taken hold, we should bear in mind that the long-term development of crime is still, in fact, relatively good. In most areas it has improved. Gang violence is a worrying exception, and indeed it is also fraud, which seems to be increasing and increasing. We have proposed a number of measures to combat fraud. Among other things, we want to make the ID-handles safer from the entire Alliance. The Swedish Crime Prevention Council's investigation of fraud crime mentions the large number of approved ID documents in Sweden as a problem, as it makes it more difficult to control identities and facilitates abuse. The Brå survey shows, among other things, that there are two measures that are requested from several relevant authorities and parts of the business community. You want a national ID card, and you want a central actor, preferably an authority, to issue it. We in the Alliance believe that the number of approved ID documents in Sweden should be reviewed as soon as possible. I find it difficult, given the developments in the field of fraud, to understand how one can be against it. Mr President, I would like to Although this report deals with motions and the ideas that we have to improve the ability of the police to do a good job, the issue of resources cannot be ignored. It has also been lifted here by several. Already in late autumn 2015, we began to see a need for substantial resource reinforcements to a police organization that then worked far from satisfactory. It is a need that unfortunately does not seem to diminish. We started, I want to remember, with 2 billion. Then it screwed up to 2.4 billion. Last fall, I think we were talking about 3.1 billion. Now we see that there are additional needs. In our proposal for our budget, which is now coming, we announce an investment of 8 billion to be allocated to new police officers, more civilian workers and increased salaries. We need to increase attractiveness. The issue of wages is an important one. We did this for the teachers, and I think it is important that we do it for the police too. Of the 8 billion, approximately 1.7 billion goes to a salary investment that enables the agency to meet increased salary demands from the police. This means about SEK 2 000 more a month. Police training is being expanded so that by 2021 we have 2 000 new police officers on duty. Over a four - year period, this means a cost of about SEK 3 billion. The police are being given more resources to continue their efforts on more civilian workers. In total, the police will have increased the number of civilian employees by 1 300. This means an annual cost of approximately SEK 850 million, and it is based on the police's own budget base. The police are being given more resources to raise wages over a four-year period. When all the police officers are on duty, that means an increase of 2,000 kroner a month, as I said. The cost of that is 1.7 billion. In addition, we are proposing some further reinforcements to the justice chain, because when we have more police officers in the streets and squares who can investigate crimes, other parts must also be strengthened to keep up. We therefore propose that the National Forensic Centre, which is currently being drawn with long waiting times when it comes to delivering results to technical evidence, should be added SEK 500 million to employ more staff. The DA gets 250 million to hire more prosecutors. The police are given SEK 200 million to the extremely important work of strengthening witness protection. There are many things, Mr President, on which I would like to insist. But it feels like we're going to get a very long vote already as it is, so I'm sticking to the claim I made.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-120	Mr President, I would like to There is probably no debate with the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights that does not end in any form of police bingo. The party that calls for the most police officers is the party that sees crime most seriously. It's something tiring and unserious. But it may be so when many feel that the political game is more important than actually making a difference. Then it's good to be a left-winger. It is a tip to several who are a little tired of the political climate right now. What few talk about, however, is the working conditions of the police. The debate is approaching this issue in various parts. Perhaps the police should be able to receive compensation for violations, and it is totally unacceptable that stoning is done while the police are working. But these are small steps in the debate. It is not the big deal about the working environment, the conditions of employment and the state official's conditions in the exercise of authority. Of course, I welcome all these contributions, especially from the bourgeoisie, which have the ability to tackle the working environment like the cat around hot porridge. Today, the police authorities are facing major challenges with the major reorganisation that has taken place, which has not yet quite sat down and which has led to both organisational problems and dissatisfaction within the corps. In parallel, the police have had a very large workload over the past year with more tasks. These include efforts on border controls, which have been decided by the Riksdag in connection with the increase in the number of asylum seekers who have arrived or wish to come to Sweden. The Left Party strongly opposed the introduction of border controls. We voted against in Parliament. We have consistently criticised the government for the recurrent extensions of border controls. The Left Party defends the right of asylum and everyone's right to a sanctuary. The introduction of border controls runs counter to this right. From the point of view of labour law, controls are a disaster. The South Police Region believes that because of border controls, crime prevention has been ironed on the foot. The Chamber of Commerce in the Öresund region believes that border controls have cost 1.5 billion in lost income per year and that companies and entrepreneurs have been hit so hard. One argument used for the introduction of border controls was that they would force other states within the EU to take greater responsibility for asylum seekers. We in the Left Party were very concerned about this and that the introduction of border controls would instead lead to a domino effect with closed borders throughout Europe as a result. Unfortunately, that is exactly what has happened. The introduction did not make the Member States of the European Union take greater responsibility, but had a direct opposite effect. The borders between the states of Europe are now closed almost everywhere to people on the run. New repressive proposals are being put forward at a high pace. Agreements are signed with Turkey, Afghanistan and several African countries, and aid efforts to stop people fleeing are being carried out. It is a dangerous development that jeopardises the right of asylum and human rights. In this context, I should also like to remind you that the Police Authority not only abstained from requesting the introduction of border controls but also opposed the introduction of border controls. Whatever the perspective, border controls are a disaster. They are from a law enforcement perspective, from a health and safety perspective to the police, and from a business and economic perspective. It is a shame that border controls are being extended and that the government is not standing up for the right of asylum. Mr President, I would like to The working conditions of the police have become a more topical issue. The police work in a diverse and complex working environment with both physical and mental stress. It is therefore so important that both technical and other physical aids and work tools function and are adapted to the police's tasks. That is not what it looks like today. Many components of police technical equipment such as computer systems are slow, outdated and non-compatible. They just don't talk to each other. For example, reporting an event report often takes an unnecessary amount of time. The technical equipment shall facilitate work and not the reverse. Police are an important part of maintaining the rule of law. It is of great importance that the agency is an attractive workplace that takes good care of its employees. That is why we in the Left Party believe that the government should ensure that there is a broad examination of the police's working environment, including a quality review of the police's technical aids and computer systems. Other issues that would facilitate the working conditions of the police are whether the police could, for example, better testify in court than they do today, and that this could be done during working hours and not as it is today, that they could be summoned to a court in their free time or during parental leave. The conditions for testifying must be improved for the police. It needs to be investigated and improved. That question drives the Left Party. Nor is it that the police pay level is always so impressive. Nor is it the case that politicians in parliament have knowledge of how wage formation in the Swedish labour market is done. It is not politicians in this House who decide on the salaries of the police. It is a negotiation between the social partners. Many parties, especially the bourgeois, who do not always like the work of the trade union often have an opinion on the wages of the police. I've got a tip for you. Then make sure police training becomes a higher education degree. A higher level of education drives up the salary picture and also gives the police a broader competence. This is something the Liberals are against. At the same time, it is often the Liberals who talk about police training and salary levels. This is a good point to the Liberals from a former government official: Education, salary levels and career development often go hand in hand. I request the approval of reservation 21.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-135	Mr President, I would like to This debate is not just about the police. There are a number of motions that we are discussing in the Committee on Legal Affairs' report. I would particularly like to touch on the area of criminal gangs but also on the issue of terrorism, which we have raised here for many years. This is a recurring debate focusing on the situation of the police in vulnerable and particularly vulnerable areas. The Social Democrats say that they want to tackle the problems and think that one thing and the other is unacceptable. Yet they reject our proposals in this House. It is no news that, even today, they reject a motion for action against recruitment to criminal gangs. Mr President, I would like to A few weeks ago we had a debate in this House on defection. Even there, the S, V and MP voted down our concrete proposals. The Social Democrats say in the report that they are satisfied with the efforts being made towards re-cruiting to criminal gangs. I would like to hear from the Social Democrats and government representatives: what measures do you mean? If so, tell us what effects it has had. Are you satisfied with the development of Swedish society? Are you satisfied with the development of the vulnerable and particularly vulnerable areas where the police no longer consider themselves to be in control of the development of society and the development of crime in our Swedish society? It is incomprehensible and strange that the Social Democrats are just using the expression It is almost provocative, Mr President. Liberals do not share that view. The stakes are not enough. We see the situation in vulnerable areas. We even see that the police and police leadership are unable to deliver – despite political comments, courtings by the head of the police and dialogue with the Minister for Home Affairs – and get more police out of the service and especially in particularly vulnerable areas. It is even stated in the Political Authority's own annual report that they only got started in autumn 2016 to get district police and additional resources in vulnerable and particularly vulnerable areas. That is not a problem that arose in October 2016, Mr President. The first report on so-called vulnerable areas came in October 2014. So the government had two years to make political and economic assessments and really help to get the criminals and, in this case, the new recruitment to criminal gangs. Elin Lundgren did not want to point to any parties and talked about looking beyond the rhetoric of police and resources. The Left Party comes up in the debate and talks about police bingo. The Social Democrats will have to stand up for their budgetary option. I note that less than a year ago, you considered it sufficient for 100 million extra to the Swedish police in this year's 2017 budget. It was SEK 100 million, of which SEK 25 million was earmarked for cabotage. You strengthened the Swedish police by 75 million in 2017 without even requiring them to go to more police officers and more police officers in external service. But perhaps you are now in the police bin or the auction, because now there is a proposal for 700 million. And, Linda Snecker, is the Left Party behind the $700 million investment, or are you now an actor in the police bingo? I'm not going to go into the spring change budget much more. However, I would like to hear how many more police officers the 700 million will contribute to, because it is irresponsible if a Member of Parliament or a Minister goes out and promises such a big budget effort without telling them what the money is going to do. Or is it, as the Liberals and comrades in the Alliance have said, mainly to cover costs incurred by the chief police officer last autumn? Then say it! It's more honest and open. Mr President, I would like to With regard to terrorism, during this government, which has been in office for two and a half years, we have received a single political decision in the Swedish Parliament, and this concerns the criminalisation of terrorist travel. It was also one of the issues raised in the terrorist talks in the winter of 2015. We hope that the government realises that, despite all the rejections we have received both 2015 and 2016, more measures are needed. Let me point out a matter that I raised myself in the negotiations in November 2015, namely on more measures on social media against the recruitment and radicalisation of Swedish young people who, for thousands of people, participate in social media every day, where they are fed with extreme and radical views and are swept with and into terrorist movements. Some of them have unfortunately gone to conflict areas and been killed, but many have returned. I am in favour of our reservation 15, because the Liberals' motion for a resolution is dealt with in an alliance reservation. But here too, the S, V and MP reject our concrete proposal to do more within, for example, European police cooperation Europol. Sweden needs to participate more operationally to get to grips with recruitment and radicalisation and to stop the sedition and encouragement of young people to be lured and literally tricked into committing barbaric crimes abroad but also at home in Sweden. It is regrettable that the Social Democrats and the government base reject the proposal. We have now received an invitation to the forthcoming talks of terror, in which the Liberals will participate. We look forward to this for greater security, because freedom must be defended, as we say in the Liberals.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-151	Mr President, I would like to No policeman who goes to work, puts on the uniform and prepares for his working day or night knows what to expect during that particular session. When we talk about the police being a central function of society, one of our most important authorities, we must always remember that this function has been built up by the people who have chosen to work precisely as police officers. Today, Mr President, it is the first debate with the members of the Committee on Justice since the terrorist attack in Stockholm on 7 April. We remember and honor all those who fell victim to the evil of terror and think of their relatives. We are also thinking of those police officers and all rescue and medical personnel who sacrifice, and several times in danger of their own lives, protected and helped those in need. I'm thinking of Emma and Alex, the police officers who arrested the suspect for probable cause. Emma said this in a daily newspaper: and I thought this person must get control of the lightning fast, he's just going down the hill. ..................................................... We note that public confidence in the work of the police and the Security Service in connection with the terrorist attack is high – rightly so. Mr President, I would like to We also know that, even before the attack, the situation was strained for the Swedish police. We Christian Democrats have proposed 10 000 more police officers. There are no shortcuts. More police officers are needed in external service, in investigative activities, in the core business in order for the police to meet the challenges they have to ensure security and freedom for the citizens of Sweden. We also need an investment in higher wages and better working conditions in order for more people to stay in the profession. Record numbers under 40 have chosen to quit. Yesterday, I met a cop. I asked her what concrete measure she thinks is the most important to improve working conditions. She quickly replied: More police officers, more colleagues with whom I can work and do a better job. It is the most important measure to improve working conditions. Therefore, Mr President, I do not think Linda Snecker's argument that the number of police officers is not related to the working conditions of the police is correct. We also have in our budget option a series of proposals to strengthen our anti-terrorism capacity. For example, it is a question of doubling the national task force to strengthen our ability to cope with attacks in several places at the same time. It is a question of attacking the roots of terror by giving the Living History Forum the task of combating violent Islamism, just as they are today tasked with informing about the Holocaust and the crimes of communist regimes against humanity. In reservation 25 of the report, which was written prior to the attack in Stockholm, I mention that, following the terrorist attacks in Oslo and at Ut ø ya, amendments have been made to the Norwegian Police Act on the right of the police to assistance from the defence and on local police. Changes have also been made to the Fire and Explosion Protection Act, the Customs Act and the Criminal Code in relation to materials that can be used for explosives and in preparation for terrorist offences. I wrote in the reservation that it is of great importance that we have the right preparedness to deal with and eliminate possible future attacks on our society, and one important aspect of this is to ensure that police and military in extreme situations can have good cooperation. The police's national commander, Jonas Hysing, said at the beginning of April, before the attack in Stockholm, that it's all wrong to have too few police officers to protect and guard public places in the event of major terrorist attacks. That is why we need more police officers, and that is why the police's ability to use the defence also needs to be increased. Exceptional occurrences require exceptional measures. In the statement, Hysing said that in the event of large-scale attacks, the police need to cooperate more with the Armed Forces in terms of guarding and protection, and this is what we are proposing in reservation 25, to which I call for approval. It is also something that we will bring forward in the talks with the government that have been announced on measures to combat terrorism and increase our capacity to combat terrorism. I would also like to talk a little about our reservation No 1, which deals with alternative weapons for the police. We believe that the police should be given access to alternative weapons. We are pleased that what we have proposed, that the police should have access to a Taser, is now under way within the Police Authority, but more is needed. An electric gun is good for individual arrests. But we see an increasing number of riot situations around the country, so the police need to have access to alternative, less lethal weapons, such as rubber bullets and water cannons, to curb criminal offensives and to take control of certain areas. As I said, weapons are less harmful than the guns that the police have today, and they could help the police to deal better with difficult situations. Finally, I would like to comment on what the government has presented as an investment of SEK 700 million in the spring change budget. However, not dismissing 1 000 members of the Police Authority, as the Chief of Police has warned, would be the consequence if resources were not added, can hardly be seen as an initiative, Mr President. We have also heard of 10,000 more police officers announced at the S-Congress. We have seen nothing about this in the spring bill and do not know when it will come. We'll have to get back to that. But I would have liked not only to have made efforts to cover holes in the fabric, but also to have made concrete proposals in the spring bill to give the police long-term opportunities to secure our security. The last time we debated in this House in the Committee on Justice, Justice and Home Affairs, we talked for quite a long time about the need to ensure that we are involved in the criminalisation of terrorist organisations. Then I said that the government protected the freedom of association before criminalising it. It took a terrorist attack in Stockholm for them to turn. We Christian Democrats have been pushing this issue since the 1990s. That is why we welcome the turn of the government on this issue.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-166	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Justice on young offenders. During an Easter dinner with friends, I met a person who works in prison. His experience with the work of young people who commit crimes confirmed my view of the situation and what I have heard from several others in the past. Young people who end up in crime are usually the ones who have a tough time at school and at home. It often starts with bad associations and drugs. Then the crimes become more and more serious. It is young people who themselves say that they have lost hope. They don't think they can have a better life. According to Brå, young people's crime has decreased for a long time in Sweden. But some young people still end up in crime, and we have to work with them. In order to combat crime, we must be tough on crime and work against the causes of crime. Society must react quickly when young people are entering a criminal path, and society must also catch these people very early. The work against the causes of the crime is primarily about building a strong welfare and reducing the gaps between people. It is about ensuring that all children and young people get a good education, access to meaningful leisure activities, mental health care and support when family relationships are difficult. It is a question of countering segregation and continuing to increase the employment rate since the change of government. We Social Democrats want a secure and equal society that creates hope and faith in the future for people. In parallel, we also need to combat crime. The government has taken many measures to combat juvenile delinquency. More measures are under way, and even more will be done. Mr President, I would like to Let me give you a few examples. It is important that young people have great confidence in the police and in society. A few days ago, the government announced its desire to increase the number of police officers by 10,000 by 2024. That's twice as many as the police asked for. This means an addition of resources. It provides more opportunities to strengthen local presence and increase young people's confidence in the police. A few weeks ago, the Prime Minister announced that the government wants to review penalties for young people who commit serious crimes. The reason for this is that it is now possible for those who commit crimes and have reached the age of 18 but not 21 years to receive a reduction in punishment. One of the problems with this is that criminal gangs use young people to commit serious crimes because young people receive lower penalties. An investigation will now be set up to review these penalties. As the government will review this, we believe that the investigation should not be pre-empted. We have social intervention teams that work through a form of inter-agency collaboration to prevent young people from getting caught up in crime. In September 2014, the National Board of Health and Welfare was commissioned by the Government to evaluate the work of social intervention groups. An interim report was made in February 2016 and the evaluation shall be finalized by September 2017. We believe that the work carried out in the social action groups is very important, and we would like to see more use of social action groups to help young people break criminal lines. However, since the National Board of Health and Welfare has an ongoing task to evaluate the work of a social task force, we believe that this should not be anticipated. Another important measure under way concerns specific penalties for young people who commit crimes. The specific sanctions currently in place are youth care, youth services and closed youth care. In the New Sanctions report, the Sanctions Investigation proposed new youth sanctions such as contact obligations for young adults and youth monitoring. In December 2016, the Government commissioned an investigator to investigate and take a position on these proposals. This, too, is a work that is already under way. Mr President, I would like to There are many more examples from the ongoing work to lift up. The work against drug crime and the introduction of the new crime are extremely serious drug offences – because the government considered that some crimes should be judged more harshly than before – is one example. Furthermore, we have developed a crime prevention programme in order to be able to carry out a structured and long-term crime prevention work. Measures are being taken and an investigation is underway to speed up the prosecution of young people who commit crimes and the introduction of on-call courts, as it is important that the processing time for juvenile offences is as short as possible. These are just some of the things the government does, and more needs to be done. Many of the proposals in the motions in which the opposition proposes announcements are about measures that we also think are important and are aware of. However, these proposals for action are already under investigation. In the form of government, demands are made for a matter to be well prepared. Therefore, it would not only be a pity to anticipate. It is also quite natural to wait for an investigation that is in place on the basis of the preparation requirement. It is our job to give young people hope for a good future. There are young people who end up on a criminal path, but there are also many examples of young people who, through good prevention, have been able to keep away from crime. It should not be profitable to commit crimes. A person who has committed a crime shall have consequences for his or her actions. There should also be a way back for those who have atoned for their crimes and who want to get out of crime and back into society. Mr President, I would like to It is our task to create a secure society, a society that stays together. I support our reservations, but I do not support them.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-189	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Committee on Legal Affairs' motion for a resolution on young offenders. The Alliance has initiated a joint motion with many good suggestions. I agree with all the reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to No. 15. Many professions began committing crimes at an early age, many long before they were 15 years old. It is therefore important that society reacts early and clearly so that these young people do not get caught up in crime. Many criminals with whom I have spoken have wished that society had reacted earlier so that they did not get caught in crime. Then they would have had a better chance of breaking with their criminal life. Many innocent victims could also be avoided. Mr President, I would like to I myself remember a young man from the time when I worked as a youth investigator in Gothenburg. He had committed crimes after crimes. I asked him what had happened after every crime, and he said a little smile: basically nothing. He'd been at Social Services, talking a little bit, and that's it, he said. The time I talked to him he had completely cold and unprovoked kicked down a person from behind. He was arrested and had to spend a couple of nights in jail. I remember he was in shock. He wondered why society had not reacted before and why no one had said anything. This proves that society must react sooner and more clearly. You shouldn't be able to commit a crime after a crime. The report makes three announcements to the government. That's good. However, I will only talk about one of these, and it is about the announcement of the so-called youth discount for young people between the ages of 18 and 21. The youth discount means that a person between 18 and 21 receives less punishment than a person over 21 and has done the same crime. In principle, an 18-year-old receives a 50% discount. This persists since the age of 21, even though it was lowered to 18 years over 40 years ago. We Moderates think the youth discount is completely wrong. We think that a person who is of age should take full responsibility for his or her actions even in the case of crime. We Moderates have been working for years to get rid of this youth discount. Many 18- to 21-year-olds are already criminaries and have had time to commit many serious crimes before they become 21. Unfortunately, we have experienced this many times, not least in view of all the recent gang shootings. Mr President, I would like to It is 15-, 16- and 17-year-olds who commit very serious crimes: murder, manslaughter, aggravated rape, etc. This cannot go on, but society must highlight more clearly, sooner and with determination. Giving youth discounts to adult people is completely wrong and sends out completely the wrong signals. On several occasions, we Moderates have raised this issue with the government in various ways. Last January, I asked Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson a written question about this, and he thought it reasonable to have this youth discount. Last autumn we wrote a joint alliance motion that we want a review of the youth discount. We want legal persons to take full responsibility for their actions. The Swedish Democrats supported our reservation, which is why we received an announcement. That's very good. S, MP and V reserved themselves against this proposal. With this announcement, we pressured the government, and the day before the Justice Committee would adjust the report, Prime Minister Löfven made a move. He announced that the government will set up an investigation to review the youth discount. It is good that the government has come to light, but it has taken a long time. At present, we do not know what the scope or direction of the investigation will be, but we have to wait until we see directives. It could take years before there's a bill on the table. It is therefore a good thing that we are getting this announcement. It is a pity that the Green Party's Annika Hirvonen is ill today and cannot take part in the debate. She has stood in this speaker's chair many times claiming that all research shows that increased penalties have no impact on crime. It would have been very interesting to hear if there has been new research showing that she has been wrong all along. But we must take this into account in another debate. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say a few words about the closed juvenile care system. In the Alliance's motion, we have a proposal that a thorough reform is needed to strengthen the quality of youth care. It has emerged from various sources that closed youth services do not work and need to be reviewed and improved. The aim is, of course, to reduce relapses. Unfortunately, we did not get an announcement on this, but we will come back this autumn. To conclude, Mr President, crime has become very serious. Young people shoot and stab others for the slightest thing. One example is Nordstan in Gothenburg, where youth gangs fight and stab each other every two weeks. It is simply terrible, and it must be stopped. The situation in Nordstan is completely derailed, and it is the government that is responsible.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-208	Mr President, I would like to There is one party that has been exercising, debating and voting for the removal of the penalty rebate for criminals between 18 and 21 years of age, and it is the Swedish Democrats. I am therefore pleased that the alliance parties have finally managed to rally around a joint motion which at least proposes that the penalty rebate, which today can provide a halved penalty for a criminal 18-year-old, should be reviewed. I promised last spring that the Swedish Democrats would support an alliance-based motion on the punishment of adults between 18 and 21 years of age if it went in our direction, i.e. to remove it completely. A promise is a promise, and now we have an announcement on the matter. However, I am rather disappointed by the very cautious wording that some or some parties within the Alliance are behind: that the penalty rebates should be reviewed. The attitude of the Swedish democrats has always been that the penalty rebates should be removed. The Moderates were the party that during this term of office was only out after the Swedish Democrats with their own motion, which had the wording to abolish or review the penalty rebate. The liberals went on this autumn with their own exercise with the wording to review or wind up the penalty rebates. However, the final product of the joint alliance motion contains a much milder wording, which primarily mentions that repeat offenders between the ages of 18 and 21 may receive penalty rebates, not that penalty rebates for all offenders in themselves are a problem. Finally, there is the lukewarm conclusion that the penalty rebates should therefore be reviewed. There is not a single wording on the removal, abolition or abolition of penalty rebates. I would simply like the alliance parties or parties that have negotiated the wording to be so gentle that one cannot expect the penalty rebates to be removed to come forward here. I suspect that the Center Party may be involved, and I think that the voters will be able to find out. This shows a little what happens in criminal policy when the Swedish Democrats are not allowed to negotiate. First, the barrels roar loudly within the Alliance, and then there will be only one small thumbnote left. If you want to have a great deal of influence for stricter penalties, increased police powers and more resources for the judiciary, you may not want to negotiate with the Center Party in the first place. The other day I heard the Centre Party's economic-political spokesperson Emil Källström in SVT saying that he thought that the government spent far too little money on the police and that the Center Party has long wanted to see more resources for the police and the judiciary, then in connection with the spring change budget. But if you look at the Center Party's funding for the judicial system for 2016, you can see that they invested SEK 0 more on the police than the government did. And in total, the Center Party even invested less money in the judiciary than the government did. But the Center Party has long wanted to see more money for the police and the judiciary – it's a little humor anyway. Johan Hedin may be able to talk a little with his economic-political spokesperson about how the economy works and that minus is not plus. But you can sort that out at a later date. That is the case in criminal policy. There are alliance parties that rattle a lot in the media but deliver little when required. However, to the extent that it has been a tough sacrifice for some or some of the alliance parties to join the penalty for adult criminals between 18 and 21 years of age, I would nevertheless like to thank you for doing so. Otherwise, our policy in this area is solid. We are still advocating a reduction in the age of the criminal authorities from 15 to 13 years, because we see that the development of society requires more far-reaching opportunities for society to intervene against ever younger people involved in criminal settings. As a small compensation for the previous debate, where I exceeded both the speaking time and the number of requests, I choose not to seek the approval of any of the reservations of the Swedish Democrats, but of course we support them. We thank the Alliance for the announcements we have managed to make together.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-223	Mr President, I would like to I was addressed in the previous speaker's speech. I don't know how much I'm going to respond to it, but I'm thinking that crime, crime and legal issues are infinitely more complicated than what can be expressed with 140 characters on Twitter or written in various web forums, such as Avpixlat and others. These are complicated things. There is no quick fix against the growing gang problem. If you believe it, you are not ready to link leadership to politics. It is a little worrying that the Swedish Democrats think that the Center Party's draft budget is so very good that we have to criticise those we tabled two years ago. Nevertheless, I think it is a good idea that we should initially allocate EUR 8 billion to substantial reinforcements for security and police. For me and the Center Party, the police contributions are about securing security and making it better for people – young people and old people all over the country – so that they can live in safety and walk on our streets, whether it's in the middle of town, in a suburb a bit from here or somewhere in the countryside where it's far to the nearest police. Sometimes when you hear the debate, it's like when the clock stands still – it still goes right twice a day. It can be trusted that some people always want more resources for the police, more police, whether needed or not, more and sharper instruments of repression and harder action against criminals. As far as the report on young criminals is concerned, it is particularly sensitive and interesting. You have to see both sides at the same time. You have to think of young people as someone who might end up wrong, but who can be pushed in the right direction by the right means. I think a lot about an email I received yesterday, and it gives me no peace. There was this young girl who wrote me. She had ended up in a very difficult situation. Her boyfriend was in jail. They had both been arrested for drug offences. She had been sentenced to probation and he was in prison. There were so many questions I wanted to ask. What happened on the way? What prompted these young people, who had been happy and positive young people who wanted to realize their dreams and seek education, travel the world and do other things, to take this step? What did the fork look like? These are, of course, questions that are extremely difficult to answer even for those who are in this situation. But there are things that interest me. I believe that it is by understanding how this works that we can really solve these problems. Then you should not think that this is something that you can hug to death, but it requires a great deal of clarity against young people who commit crimes. It is precisely part of being able to recover and take a new place in society that it is a very clear consequence of the crimes that you commit. There should be an opportunity to atone for your crime, and it should be clear: I have done wrong, and I can do certain things to get back. I remember an event in a hunting team that I was in. A young guy was there for the first time. He accidentally shot at the wrong animal. He was supposed to shoot an elk calf, but he shot a cow. You can't do that, and everyone knows it. There was no clear consequence of this, which was stupid. This was a few years ago. He's been bored by the farmmen all these years for this, and he never really gets out of it. What if you'd just said you were wrong? Now you're gonna have to pass next year. But the following year you are welcome again. That would have been clear, and it would have been very clear. I believe in clarity. That is why I do not think we should simplify this discussion about tough or soft hands on young people, but we must have some both for it to work and for it to work. That is why sanctions are also very important, and we have highlighted a number of points in this report. These include the penalty for offenders aged 18 to 21. I don't think it's that simple to have any clear answers to that. But it is clear that you should stand for your actions. When it comes to crimes committed by those under 15 years of age, when they are not of criminal age and should not be punished, it is very important to investigate what has happened. It is important not least for the victim but actually also for the person who has committed the crime, so that you understand that what you have done is wrong and should be able to get out of it. There are things that I think are important. Sultan Kayhan of the Social Democrats highlighted something that I have also heard from other quarters, namely that these criminal gangs send out the youngest to commit the most serious crimes because they receive lower penalties. Everyone needs to think about what it does to a young person when committing a serious violent crime. Even if you are heading in the wrong direction and have it in you, it does not get better if you are sent out. It is also an aspect that we need to include when discussing young criminals. There is also a lot here that I would like to insist on. But something that has been on the agenda and is about to be investigated, but which we still have to continue to pursue, so to speak, is part of this juvenile criminality that takes very sad forms. It's about the violence and threats to bluelight personnel. That is why I am in favour of the Moderates and the Center Party's reservation 14 on sanctions in the event of violations of so-called blue light personnel.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-240	Mr President, I would like to I thought I'd start by clarifying something. Minus can't be plus, so to speak. The 2016 budget was in force last year. Although you contributed more money to this year's autumn budget, you still contributed the least of all opposition parties. If you add the 700 million contributed by the government, you are still the party in parliament that adds the least money to the judiciary. Then they'll be a little comical that your economic-political spokesperson says that you've long wanted to see more resources for both the judiciary and the police. Johan Hedin must be able to agree with that. As far as clarity is concerned, I sympathise very much with what Johan Hedin has said in the speaker's chair. I think it is very important that we have consistent penalties for young people and that they do not get a soft start into crime, so to speak, just because they are young. As Johan Hedin says, I think it is very damaging for young people to be exploited by older criminals because there are lower penalties for young people. Then my question is: where is the clarity of precisely the wording that the penalty rate for adults between 18 and 21 years of age should be reviewed? Is it Johan Hedin who has negotiated it into such a lack of clarity that you do not really know what this means in practice? Of course, I would have preferred to see these penalty rebates removed for adult people, so that there would be clear consequences. I want to know if Johan Hedin sympathizes with that. Johan Hedin and all alliance parties promised in the 2014 election campaign that this would be removed. Then it has turned into a desire to review this and that this should be changed. I would also like to ask a question about sanctions for persons under the age of 15. We know that many very young people under the age of 15 carry weapons and drugs to criminals who are older. Can it not be a point, then, with clarity and support for our reservation on the reduction of the age of the criminal authorities?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-245	Mr President, I would like to As far as the last question is concerned, I shall be very clear. No, I don't want to lower the age of punishment. I do not think that one is mature and competent enough to bear responsibility even for disgusting acts that one can commit at that age. On the other hand, we must, of course, be subject to all the resources of society. Something else that we have proposed, and which is included in this report, is about social action groups. There are also the Swedish Democrats on the train, if I do not remember wrong. That's something we're gonna work hard on. Reviewing something is quite a common formulation. As I tried to point out in my speech, it is never as simple as it seems in the simple descriptions. Things are so much more complicated than that. We will see what is achieved, because we hope that this will lead to an investigation that looks at this and weighs all aspects. There is a theoretical possibility that both Adam Marttinen and I may have missed some important aspect that needs to be highlighted in this context. It is important to have a balanced view of these different things. When it comes to our economic-political spokesperson Emil Källström, I will not review him. Nevertheless, I hope that Adam Marttinen thinks it is a good thing that we are spending quite a lot of money on the police. Even before the debate on the Spring Bill, we had seen the needs and allocated more than four times as much as the government. Then all serious budgetary options must be in a good balance. You have to have coverage for the things you do. There are things that we prioritise. There are things that need to be prioritised more and things that need to be prioritised less. I believe that security and this whole perspective – everything – are connected. Something else that we invest a lot in is breaking the division. These young people should have an alternative to face. They should not have to resort to crime, they should be able to have a job and an education.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-250	Mr President, I would like to I think that more money is being invested now on the spring side of the police and the justice system from the Center Party is great. We would have liked to have seen this money a long time ago. The money was not long ago when the Centre Party's economic-political spokesperson claims that it had wanted to see more money from the government. That is the comical aspect. We welcome the development of the Center Party and many other alliance parties that have allocated more funds to the judiciary over the past six months or year. When it comes to the penalty rebate for young adults, you still need to have a starting point for what you want it to look like. Of course, both you and I may have missed an individual detail where you may have to consider some form of penalty discount. But the Swedish Democrats' starting point as a party is that we want to remove the penalty rebate, because we think it is an illogical consequence that adult people who are designated as adults should get a discount because they are at a certain age. It doesn't make sense in our world. Therefore, our starting point is to remove the penalty rebates. Then, of course, I wonder whether it is also the Centre Party's starting point for the change in penalty rebates, or whether the Center Party actually wants to retain some of the penalty rebates. In that case, it does not rhyme with what was said in the 2014 election campaign to the voters, when they actually agreed with the principle of reviewing the legislation with a view to removing the penalty rebates. My question therefore remains: what is the starting point of the Center Party? Do you, in principle, want to remove the penalty rebates, or do you want to retain some of the penalty rebates for adults between 18 and 21 years of age?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-253	Mr President, I would like to I think we need to review the penalty rebates in order to reduce the automatic depreciation that is taking place. Then, though, there may be the possibility for the courts to give a milder penalty to the younger person if justified. I don't want to rule out that possibility, but I won't cut it in stone either. We'll see when the investigation comes and decide on this. We in the Alliance will process it in our internal collaborations, and then we will process it in the normal order of the committee. Then we will all tell you what we think about this. I would like to have the opportunity to go back a little bit to the big picture of young people and young people's crime, Mr President, as well as to the important answers to the questions of how young people can get into the labour market and dream about other things. There I often lack answers from the Swedish Democrats, who only stare blindly at the consequences of exclusion and division and do not address the division itself. The other day we had a debate on our budget, where the government raises taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. These are proposals that can have a very negative impact on Swedish development and make it possible for fewer people to get out and get their first job. There is talk of entry-level work and, unfortunately, in the case of young criminals, there is also entry-level crime. It is often a young person who finds himself at a crossroads where one may feel that one has no alternative but to fall into a criminal life - style. We have to lift them up. It is not a high quality of life and not a good life for a young person to end up in. It is good that we are taking all these measures, and I wish we had obtained a majority for more proposals. The Swedish democrats could have stood up and made sure that we got through more things, but they choose not to. We have to take one thing at a time, simply, and roll on to the next time.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-258	Mr President, I would like to The issue of young offenders is partly linked to the problem raised by the Liberals in the previous debate on recruitment to criminal gangs. The Social Democrats rejected our claims there. This is about drop-outs, social intervention groups and the importance of getting district police in vulnerable areas to get young people out of the criminal environment. I fully share the problem of young people being actively and systematically used as drug couriers and weapons stashes when they have backpacks and everything. The criminal leaders are aware of the system we now want to tackle and remedy. When I listen to Sultan Kayhan and the Social Democrats, it sounds like there are no problems in this policy area and that we are in agreement. I can start with the blue light attacks and many young people committing crimes against ambulances and police. We had that debate a few weeks ago. The government spent the whole of last year telling us how serious this is and that it wants to tackle the problem of young people throwing stones and attacking our socially important functions. However, this only resulted in the establishment in December of an investigation that will work with the goal that we will have legislation in place on 1 January 2019 at the earliest. We from the Liberals believe that it takes far too long. This also applies to the issue of on-call courts. We have tabled proposals on on-call courts before; there is nothing we are putting forward in a motion now, in April 2017. After all, we left these movements this summer – last year. It may be that Morgan Johansson will go out in January 2017 and set up an investigation, but don't say that we agree on these issues! That is why the Liberals and the Alliance insist on calling for more measures for clearer and faster consequences for young offenders. Mr President, I would like to Even with regard to early reactions, this report rejects the Liberals' motion that more crimes should be investigated even if the person is not of criminal age, i.e. under 15 years of age. We tightened the law in 2014, and it is true that more cases are being investigated. At the same time, however, the 2014 evaluation of the Crime Prevention Council showed that a quarter of the most serious crimes are never investigated, although the 2010 legislation states that it is important to do so. My question to the Social Democrats is why we continue to say no to our proposals, which could lead to more young people having just the early consequence and not getting caught up in dilemmas and the problem that my colleague Johan Hedin is addressing. How do you deal with young criminals? Are we really going to put them in closed juvenile care? Are they going to be in youth service? Should we put them in jail? We all know that whoever is under 21 years of age and commits crimes is basically not sentenced to prison. Instead, there will be youth services, closed youth services or youth services. This is provocative. It provokes the police and us politicians, but not least it provokes the public and victims of serious and serious crimes by 17-year-olds, 18-year-olds, 19-year-olds and 20-year-olds. If it is aggravated assault, for example, you may be in prison for one or two years, but if you happen to be 17 years old, you will not be in prison. You will receive youth service for 35 or 70 hours. That person is, if you are going to do some kind of simplification, out in the street or the square again and continue to commit crimes. That is why the Liberals were already exercising this autumn to review the penalty rates for persons between 18 and 21 years of age, and that is what we have been contributing to today – hopefully, at 4 p.m., to obtain approval for that motion. Then we have our own work in our party, where the Legal Policy Working Party in the Liberals proposes to our country meeting to abolish and scale down the automatic penalty rebate – the so-called youth discount – for those who commit multiple crimes, that is, even in the event of repeated crimes. To conclude, Mr President, I would nevertheless like to comment on the slowness and remarkable handling of this report by the government. In fact, it calls for the majority in committee to review the penalty rebates for persons aged 18 to 21 to be rejected. They say no to our motion requests. Reference is made to the Sanctions Committee. The sanction investigation has been in place since 2009, and there was a report in 2012. It has had more than two years at the Government Office to make such a proposal. What is remarkable, however, is the reference of the Social Democrats and the Green Party to a statement by the Prime Minister in the media. I do not understand this, Mr President– the report says that there is an investigation going on, but the next paragraph says that the Prime Minister has announced an investigation into this problem. In fact, we need to be explained so that we understand: Is there an investigation into penalties for young offenders, or is there not? There I think the answer is guilty.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-269	Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats are behind the three announcements contained in the report and presented by alliance representatives. Social intervention groups need to be used more than they currently are, and several forms of sanctions for young people should be introduced. We also welcome the fact that we now have an announcement to review penalty rebates for young people between 18 and 21 years of age, and I welcome the fact that the Minister of State has announced the appointment of an investigation. Like Roger Haddad, however, I think it will be a little strange when the report announces that an investigation is being carried out by the government, while the media announces that an investigation is to be set up. What does the government really want? And why do we have reservations about the proposal if we are in favour of it? Why is the government voting against a proposal that is said to be in favour in the media? It is a bit awkward and complicated for those who listen to the debate, Mr President, and I would actually like the government to clarify this. I would like to focus on reservation 1 on young people's confidence in the police, which I support. A number of measures are needed to increase confidence in the police in many youth groups, and a key part of this work is that young people understand the legal system. Information in schools about police work is and should be an important part of police tasks. Young people already need to get in touch with the police in primary school, while emphasising knowledge of law and education. I recently met a district police officer in my county of Jönköping. He had that same day met students at a high school. He told the students what consequences crime can have – that those nasty comments you can write to each other on social media are actually a crime that you can be convicted of when you pass the age of 15 and become a criminal. The district police told us that the students had got into it when they realized that the stuff you write to each other on Facebook could actually end up in the register and mess it up later. Not only is it the obvious thing to hurt another person, but it can also have consequences for one's own part later in life. It is important to get information and knowledge about this at an early stage, and it is therefore important that there is time, energy and resources for the district police to work on this continuously. But the cop I met was worried. He was worried that he no longer has time to meet students in the same way. He had worked in external police service for about 30 years, and he was concerned that today he is being commanded on other assignments to cover holes in police duties. That's why we need to invest so much in Swedish police. To increase young people's confidence, a locally based police force is needed that cooperates with other actors in society – with the school, with civil society and with social services. This may involve a special police officer who is attached to a specific school, so that you can name your own police, and that district police are appointed to prevent social unrest and problems such as gang crime through relationship-building work. It is also important that young people – and not only young people, for that matter, but all citizens of Sweden – report crimes, that they know that reporting a crime has consequences and that they notice these consequences. That is why the reservations supported by the Christian Democrats, together with the Alliance, in this report are a step in the right direction. The same applies to our three announcements. However, as I said, I only support reservation 1, which deals with the confidence of young people in the police.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-279	Mr President, I would like to I couldn't help asking for a few minutes up here in the speaker's chair. It sounds, particularly on Roger Haddad, that we do not agree on any point. The government has done nothing in these two years. I have to go back and remind you that the sanction investigation that came in 2012 and that dealt with young offenders in many different ways suggested a great deal of action. In the previous debate, Krister Hammarbergh spoke in an exemplary way of saying that it is sometimes difficult to rule and sometimes disagree. In this context, I think that Johan Hedin spoke wisely about the fact that there are both back pages and front pages of various proposals. There were none of the proposals in that investigation at the time, but since we took office we have gradually been grappling with proposals. The investigation is five years old now, and it can happen quite a lot in five years. Therefore, the government believes that we need to supplement certain elements. The reality has changed, and the measures and proposals may need to look different. I think that's wise. You are reacting to our reservations, but we have done so because we feel that further announcements are unnecessary when things are so far advanced. I think we will be fairly in agreement on these proposals when the investigation is completed and we can sit down and discuss. We are all aware that we have a different situation today. Crime is creeping further and further down in the ages. We need sensible measures, but we also need them prepared very wisely. I believe, as I said, that we will get along quite well when we have proposals for Parliament in these areas.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-288	It's time for Question Time. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. I would therefore like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister Per Bolund, Minister Anna Johansson, Minister Ann Linde and Minister Anna Ekström. The Government Per Bolund answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-289	Mr President, I would like to There are many of us who are grateful for the police's efforts in connection with the abominable act of terror against Sweden. That's right, because the police are making important contributions every day for our safety. We Moderates want the police to increase, that the police pay should be increased and that the police should be able to do their job. I recently took part in a debate on this in this House. At that time, the Green Party's Legal Policy spokesperson referred to the police as superficial. But no, Mr President, it is not superficial. That is absolutely necessary. I would therefore like to ask the Government and Minister Per Bolund: What is it that makes the government in the spring budget want in practice only to cover the deficits of the police and consistently say no to increased police salaries?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-292	Mr President, I would like to Of course, it is important for the government to ensure that the Police Authority has the resources it needs to provide us with the security we deserve as citizens, to ensure that the crimes committed are followed up and prosecuted and that those who commit criminal acts are dealt with by the judicial system and receive the punishment they deserve. This is also the reason why the government is now making a substantial contribution in the spring change budget to the Police Authority – one should be able to recruit more. For example, you can have more civilian employees who relieve the police and allow them to concentrate on what they do best, that is, be out in the streets and squares, and follow up on crime and ensure that those who commit criminal acts are detained. I think it's a well-targeted venture. Of course, we will follow developments and see if further efforts are needed to strengthen the police's capacity to deal with crime.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-294	Mr President, I would like to I must thank the Government for its answer, but I am not sure that the Swedish police are grateful for the efforts that are being made. The efforts now being put forward by the government are about effectively covering the deficit of the police. What we are now seeing is that many police officers are leaving the profession. I think it is important to realise that we must stop the development and be prepared to make strong efforts on the Swedish police. I ask again: why does the government consistently say no to increased police salaries?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-297	Mr President, I would like to The government is, of course, very keen that it should be attractive to go to the police profession. As we increase the number of places in police training, we also see that there is great interest. There are many applicants for those places, which is welcome. But of course we also follow the development and are prepared to do more to make it even more attractive to work as a police officer – with a good working environment and good working conditions. Then pay is a matter decided by the social partners. There we have respect for the Swedish model.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-299	Mr President, I would like to Under the red-green government, we have seen the strongest migratory storm to our country ever. The government left the borders completely open to the ultimate breaking point. As a result, we have never had as many illegal immigrants in Sweden as we have right now. At the same time, we have seen a dramatic reduction in police internal checks on aliens aimed at finding all these foreigners to be expelled. If, after all, the police had found, for example, the sentenced man who is now in custody for the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan before the terrible thing happened, they might have had to release him again because there is a lack of detention places for those who are at risk of deportation. Mr President, I would like to Does Per Bolund think that the Swedish people should be content with the efforts of the Red Green Government to deal with threats to national security and with the work of executing expulsions of illegal immigrants?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-302	Mr President, I would like to I believe that the Swedish people note that the government has taken quite strong action both in terms of migration developments and in terms of ensuring that those who do not get the right to stay in our country also return. There has also been an increase in the number of cases. Many more are returning now than during the previous government's time in power. It has several reasons, including the fact that the police have tightened up their work. Then we also have a temporary migration law that means that there are considerably fewer people who come to Sweden today than before. I believe the police are doing an important and valuable job. Of course, we will continue to have a dialogue with the Police Authority so that you have the tools that you need.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-304	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party has helped to ensure that illegal immigrants have received subsidised health care and access to schools in our country. As I have mentioned before, you have criticised and reduced the number of internal checks on foreigners. The Green Party cried when Sweden began to control to some extent which foreigners enter our country. In their efforts to gain control of illegal and effectively expel them and in their efforts to ensure and manage threats to national security, the Swedish Democrats differ from the Green Party on one point, Mr President, and that is credibility.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-306	Mr President, I would like to I think most people see that action is now being taken with great credibility, that is, we take this situation very seriously. The government as a whole – the Social Democrats and the Green Party and also the Left Party in the budget – have taken steps to ensure that we have order and order in migration policy. We think it is important that we show that the government has taken a great deal of responsibility and will continue to take a great responsibility for having a functioning migration policy that is in order and where we also protect human rights.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-308	Mr President, I would like to I turn to Minister Per Bolund. Recently, a proposal on bank tax was withdrawn. It was welcome, as the proposal as it was designed would hit disproportionately hard on banks that maintain a local presence. At the same time, the government announced that it will continue to prepare the matter. This communication continues to create uncertainty for many banks and other players. It risks affecting investment and localisation decisions. It is therefore important that the government clarify the direction of further preparation. My question to Minister Per Bolund is therefore: What measures does the government intend to take to ensure that future proposals do not have the same distortive effect?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-310	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by stating that there seems to be a fairly broad consensus here in the Swedish Parliament that the financial system and the banks can bear a greater part of the financing of our common welfare and of the construction of society. I have noted that there are also proposals in the opposition's budgets for different types of bank taxes precisely because it feels that the financial system, as the previous government stated, has a very favourable tax system. We noted that the investigation set up by the government came up with a proposal that was not accurate enough. It was a rather broad proposal for a bank and financial tax that was put forward there and with which we were not satisfied. That is why we will now continue to work on designing a bank tax that is aimed at the very banks that we can note are doing very good business and have very high income in Sweden today. In order for us to come forward with such a proposal, our assessment is that it must also be notified to the European Commission, and it is a work that will now continue.
i-9KKD2cEJD12VZb2h8xbad2	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer, Per Bolund! It is important that the rules governing the banking sector be clarified. As I said, uncertainty has now been created that risks turning on both investment and localisation decisions. I also note that the Riksbank rejects part of the motion for a resolution fee that has been drawn up.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-315	Mr President, I would like to Now it is important to keep the issues separate. The first question was about bank tax. This is not the same as the resolution fee. The latter is a fee with which we want to strengthen financial stability and ensure that we have security if we have financial unrest or, at worst, a financial crisis in the future. The government's position is that in good times and when we have good income and profits in the banking system, it is good to build reserves in order to cope better with disruption in the future. The motion for a resolution fee has been out for consultation. We have recently received the referral points and will proceed with it.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-318	Mr President, I would like to It is about means of transport, public health, entertainment, exercise and tourism. I have today met a number of students who, with Emma at the head, have a greeting to Minister for Infrastructure Anna Johansson about the importance of being able to both walk and ride to school. The Swedish Parliament already decided two years ago on the announcement of a national cycle strategy. Denmark has one, and many countries are investing in enabling cycling, not least for public health reasons. It requires better accessibility, better surface area, more resources and much more. The Committee on Transport's questions are now being re-examined again. The answers shine with their absence. When will the national cycle strategy that has been announced since 2015 come?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-321	Mr President, I would like to Cycling is an important issue. It is an important public health issue, but it is also an important climate issue. More and more people realise the potential of cycling to create more space and nicer cities to stay in. There are plenty of good examples, in other countries but also here in Sweden, of municipalities and local bodies that have worked intensively and successfully to create good conditions for cycling. Precisely safe school roads are mainly a municipal responsibility, because it is a municipal planning issue. It is about how to place schools in relation to residential buildings and how to create safe and safe roads to school. The government has worked and is continuing to develop a bicycle strategy. It will be presented in the near future. Perhaps not all questions, but several questions will then be answered.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-325	Mr President, I would like to We have been waiting for the national cycle strategy for two years now. It's really important. It will have to deal with issues that will end up on Parliament's table. These are legislative changes and conditions which neither the municipalities nor the regions can afford. We have heard many times that there will soon be a cycle strategy. That is why I would like to ask the Minister once again: can the Government specify when it will come and, if so, with what content? Preparation of exercise is ongoing.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-327	Mr President, I would like to The question will be answered in the near future, particularly as regards content. It is important to emphasise that it is a national cycle strategy, that is, not just a government cycle strategy. If we are to achieve success in increasing cycling and in creating safe cycling and good conditions for increased cycling, it is important that many different actors interact. The municipalities will continue to play a key role in the future. But the Finnish Transport Agency and other government agencies obviously also have important roles to play.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-330	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address Minister Anna Ekström in her capacity as Social Democrat and High School Minister. First I have to make a confession. At lunch today, I snapped my hands and thanked Gud for the food. That's how I was taught once in school when I was a kid. But now we hear that the Social Democrats want to ban all religious elements in preschool, primary school and upper secondary school. Everything's going away. There should be no grace. You shouldn't thank Gud for the food, it should just be straight on and eat like wild animals. Christmas tree, cross, Advent candlestick-- can there even be a Bible or a hymn book in a classroom? What do the Social Democrats really want?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-333	Mr President, I would like to Question Time is about the responsibility of the ministers and the performance of their duties. As far as I know, the aim is not to investigate party political positions. Nevertheless, I am happy to answer the questions asked by the honourable Member. Today, we have a regulatory framework that ensures that secular elements are not included in teaching. But we also have a regulatory framework that says that in an independent school there may be secular elements outside teaching, what we call education. I know that there are no proposals to ban Christmas trees, hymn books or grace. As I see it, it goes without saying that every student who wants to pray should have the right to do so. But as a Social Democratic politician, I want to fight that schools have the right to ensure that children and students pray in schooltime.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-336	Mr President, I would like to It is true that there is no proposal now. But when the Social Democrats make a decision at a congress to delete all religious elements in school, it eventually affects the whole of Sweden. We know that from experience; when you have the power of government, it will become a reality, Anna Ekström. True, you may not intend to come and pick up the children who snap their hands with the police. But you want to close every school with religious elements. Admit it's your plan!
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-338	Mr President, I would like to There's a certain confusion here. We are talking about religious elements and confessional elements. The decision taken at the Congress of the Social Democrats was about the opportunities for schools to have secular elements in their education and teaching. I can assure Mr Skånberg that there will be no proposals, at least not by me, to ban children from praying.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-342	Mr President, I would like to I address my question to Minister of High School Anna Ekström. As we know, many young people find it difficult to achieve their upper secondary skills within four years. Many of those students belong to the group of new arrivals. We also know that the upper secondary school degree is the gateway to work for the vast majority of young people. Therefore, it is incredibly important that the school gives all students the opportunity to complete their education instead of being released into unemployment.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-346	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for an urgent question, Elisabet Knutsson! In Sweden today we have a labour market where completed upper secondary education is almost mandatory for you to be able to get a job. It is also important for you to be able to read on. At the same time, we have an upper secondary school where a proportion as high as about a third goes out without a complete upper secondary school degree. We also know that many newly arrived students will find it difficult to complete their upper secondary education in due time. This is an area that the government is working very hard on. It is about ensuring that upper secondary school has the resources to really help and support students to meet the goals, not least newly arrived students. However, it is also a matter of ensuring that there are good opportunities to obtain upper secondary school qualifications on other roads than through the Youth Upper Secondary School. I am thinking, above all, of adult education, but also of folk high schools.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-350	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for that answer. I'm thinking about vocational school. How do we think about it and new arrivals and high school?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-352	Mr President, I would like to You should always be careful about what is the goal and what is the means. It is enough to be quite untraditional when it comes to the funds, because we have a very big task, especially when it comes to ensuring that the newly arrived students get a really good chance of a start that leads to jobs in Swedish society. I see great opportunities for the government to come back with proposals on opportunities for young people to pass their upper secondary school degrees in ways other than through traditional vocational upper secondary schools, such as the vocational schools that Elisabet Knutsson is talking about.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-354	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Bolund. Almost two weeks ago, Sweden was once again shaken by a terrible act of terror. Last time it was in Trollhättan, this time it was in Stockholm. The police's handling was good, and they'll have our biggest thanks. Stockholm was wallpapered with love messages. Everyone called for calm, but the government and all other parties are now doing the opposite. The bidding has started on measures that punish people seeking asylum. You point out Muslims and everyone else who's not as blond as me and the government. The aim of terrorists is for politicians and society to exclude and suspect Muslims, reduce diversity and close borders. That is what all parties are now doing through proposals on footcuffs and on the detention of asylum seekers. The Left Party refuses to take part in the bidding that discredits all of Sweden's Muslims. Why does the government want to go that way?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-359	Mr President, I would like to This is a question that may be too early because there are now discussions. We will start talks on how to deal with the risk of terrorism. We will try to find as broad a consensus in the Swedish Parliament as possible to take action. All of Sweden's citizens expect us to take further steps to ensure that this type of terrorist act can be avoided in the future. Of course, this must be done with the greatest respect for people's integrity and for human rights. That is something that the government parties at least bring with them in the talks, and I am convinced that the other parties, which are included in the agreement on how to prevent terrorism, also have it with them. Just to ensure that there is no misunderstanding: the proposal on the anklet was a small part of the Green Party's proposal, and it was not aimed at asylum seekers in general, but at a very small number of people who are judged by our authorities to be a real security threat. So we should not mislead the debate and come up with misleading information.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-362	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. There are different ways to deal with terror. Either you change the whole of the country's legislation and confirm that it is the terrorists who decide, as has been done in France. Or, as in the United Kingdom, it has succeeded, through intelligence, police work, negotiations and social reforms, in breaking off the terrorist attacks that have taken place over 20 years. We have much to learn from Britain. But the government's actions focus only on violent Islamic extremism when we need to take a holistic approach to all forms of extremism.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-364	Mr President, I would like to I don't share Linda Snecker's description. On the contrary, the government is working on measures against those who commit acts of terrorism, who plan such acts or where there are risks of terrorist acts. Of course, we also need to work preventively, and this government does so with a very large emphase. Recently we made proposals in our amending budget to strengthen social services and to bring money to schools in order to support the schools with the greatest social challenges, and we will continue to do so. Prevention is a basis for avoiding terrorism.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-368	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister Anna Ekström. There are schools which are currently experiencing difficulties where the results are not the very best. There is also segregation among and between schools. It should be equivalent to school, education and quality in our country. The Government has today received the School Commission's final report. On the DN's debate page, the President of the School Commission summarises the Commission's seven conclusions in seven points. One of the important conclusions is that the allocation of resources to schools is not sufficiently needs-driven. In the spring budget presented by the government on Tuesday, the government chooses to spend extra resources on the most vulnerable schools. A total of 500 million are allocated to the strengthening of primary school and 150 million to upper secondary school. Can the Government tell us more about how the Government intends to work with lifting schools with difficult conditions?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-373	Mr President, I would like to This issue, too, is very urgent and topical. The government has a number of major programmes that are currently under way. The National Agency for Education works very hard to ensure that all schools can be good schools. It is about the large programme Collaboration for the best school, the major national school development programmes and the major effort made for new arrivals within the framework of the Swedish National Agency for Education. It is committed and knowledgeable principals, teachers and principals in the country who do the great work. These jobs are very important, but they are now funded by special funds. Among other things, the School Commission proposes that this type of action should receive a little more permanent funding. Without prejudging the future management of the proposals, I would like to say that I am very much in favour of the Swedish National Agency for Education and Schools having a slightly longer-term planning horizon in terms of the important work to strengthen students' performance.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-376	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister Anna Ekström! It is reassuring that it is a work in progress because this is an extremely important part. However, I wonder whether the Government can make further comments on the seven points. They were very educational in the article that we could read today. Can the Government further comment on some of the parts that the Government intends to continue working on?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-378	Mr President, I would like to This proposal will now be submitted for consultation. We from the government are very keen to hear the views of the consultation bodies. It's usually a good idea. At the same time, the Commission's proposals are formulated in a broad composition. The School Commission consists of representatives of the professions at school and researchers. For me, it is important that we continue with the urgent discussion on how school should be governed in a spirit of coherence. We are doing our best to support the schools in this work.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-380	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Anna Ekström. Today, the School Commission has submitted its final report. In this, there are several good proposals. However, I am concerned that the Commission is opening the way to introducing lottery tickets as part of the school elections. We Moderates do not believe that the free choice of school should be replaced by a school lottery. Swedish parents and students want and should be allowed to choose school without being subjected to lottery. Swedish school faces major challenges. There are too many schools that don't measure up. Every fourth student graduates school without sufficient knowledge. You miss thousands of teachers in the classrooms. These are problems that need and need to be addressed.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-385	Mr President, I would like to Camilla Waltersson Grönvall has a high opinion of the School Commission. The school commission has made a proposal. That proposal is for referral. Of course, this consultation will be very important in order to give the government some meat on its feet when it comes to these proposals. By that I do not want to say that the proposals should be ignored, on the contrary. They are developed in a broad consensus by a school commission where there are representatives of both the profession and the scientific community. The proposal put forward by Camilla Waltersson Grönvall is one of many in the rather thick lunta with proposals. This proposal has its background in a rather problematic reality, which is that those students who want to go to really popular independent schools but whose parents did not put them in line when they were born have worse chances of life. Does Camilla Waltersson Grönvall think it's a good reality?
i-9Y2ps1hpxZnXFcBtX8NBef	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The focus of the Moderates is that the choice of school should mean a choice between many good schools. It is also there that the focus should be on the School Commission and on the work of the government. The fact that there are far too many schools that have for too long delivered far too weak knowledge should surely be the focus. Therefore, I am in favour of an active school election, but is the lottery the Government's answer to how to solve this problem?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-391	Mr President, I would like to I repeat what I said, that the government has not taken a position on the individual proposals in the School Commission report. I also note that I do not receive a reply from Camilla Grönvall. Does Camilla Waltersson Grönvall find it satisfying that students are completely dependent on the choices parents make when the students are in infancy of which schools the students should be given the chance to attend? I think it is obscene, unfair and against the freedom of choice that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall herself tends to be in favour of.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-394	Mr President, I would like to I, too, ask Minister Anna Ekström my question. Sweden needs to take a national approach to study and career guidance in order to secure the future development of skills. This is the University Council's conclusion in a new report that came before Easter. In the report, the UHR shows that today's study and career guidance in schools is inadequate and reaches pupils from unskilled homes to a lesser extent. E lives with parents who have tertiary education may receive this information from home. In order to broaden recruitment, the UHR has three recommendations. You have to start early in elementary school and go to high school. The guidance should be compulsory and not be out of place. It needs to be strengthened in places where few or unusually few young people go to higher education. How does the government view these proposals?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-397	Mr President, I would like to Study and vocational guidance throughout schooling is very important for pupils' choice of education and their free choice of future occupation. But this is also important for the supply of skills in the labour market. Through good knowledge of which courses lead to good labour market prospects, the opportunities for both students to make informed choices and the labour market to acquire the skills it so badly needs. Today we see shortcomings in study and career guidance. The government has taken several measures to secure access. Among other things, the National Board of Education is currently carrying out further training measures for study and career counselors in order to improve the quality of the guidance. Both the Vocational Programme Investigation and the Upper Secondary Investigation have highlighted these issues. In the Government Office, we are currently preparing both the reports of the Occupational Programme Investigation and the Upper Secondary Investigation. These issues are high on the agenda.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-400	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I would just like to say in this way that we in committee – and I can speak on behalf of almost the whole committee – are pleased that it is high on the government's agenda. We are simply looking forward to new proposals.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-401	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that there is broad agreement in the Riksdag on the importance of study and career guidance. In view of the question that was asked earlier about the newly arrived students, I also see that there is a great need for study and career guidance that can inform about the increasingly important adult education. I would like to thank Caroline Helmersson Olsson for her question, but also for the support that the honourable Member has given on behalf of the whole committee. It feels warming and strengthening in the continued work. Sweden's EU work in the light of the UK's withdrawal
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-404	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for EU Affairs Ann Linde and is about Sweden's level of ambition in terms of work in the EU. The UK's withdrawal is top of the agenda in Europe, now that it has decided to leave the Union. This is an important issue for Sweden, not least in the light of the fact that we are losing one of our most important partners. And I'm a little worried about Sweden's ambition level. Today, for example, we can read that Denmark is going around to find new allies in Europe. I do not understand that the Swedish Government is doing the same. I wonder how the Minister for European Affairs sees his responsibility and that of the government to find new like-minded people in Europe.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-407	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the important question. It is so important that the government commissioned a special inquiry on this only from the Swedish Institute for European Policy Studies. It examines how Sweden can now ensure that we best have new allies in various areas within the Commission, Parliament and the Council. As far as the UK is concerned, we have had the same views on almost all issues, apart from social and labour market issues. As far as other countries are concerned, we have cooperation on various issues. How can you do this in the best way? Sieps has submitted his report, and it is very interesting. It suggests how we can improve our influence. We are now trying to do this in different ways, both because all the ministers have this mission and because we have the support of the investigation that we started right after Brexit.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-410	Mr President, I would like to So there's an investigation. But I would urge the government to travel around a little more and meet new allies and create new networks. Some of our old allies are Denmark and the Netherlands. Tomorrow they will have a meeting with the Netherlands, Denmark and Ireland. Why is Sweden not at this meeting? Has Sweden reached out in any way? What is the government's strategy? What is the aim and meaning of the Union's work? Who are our most important partners?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-412	Mr President, I would like to We are doing exactly the same thing as many of the other countries are doing. As an example, I have started cooperation on the digital issues with the nine most digitised countries. There we feel that we now need much stronger cooperation. We also have collaborations with both Nordic and Baltic countries as well as with other countries, such as France and Germany. In fact, we are doing exactly what Ulrika Karlsson is asking. I think we are in complete agreement on this.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-415	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Linde. With all the concern about the future of the European Union and what happens to the European project and to European collaboration, we sometimes hear a question about what the European Union is really good for. The idea of the fraternisation and peace of the peoples of Europe is, of course, important, as is the joint struggle for the core values of democracy and human rights. But in addition to this: What value do we have in Sweden of membership, and what has happened since we joined?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-417	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I think the issue is extremely important, because often it is only about the membership fee we pay. In fact, the internal market with the free movement of goods, services, capital and people leads to a great many jobs and stronger global competitiveness in Sweden. This is something we often take for granted. For example, we forget that 70% of our exports go to the internal market, and 1.4 million have their jobs thanks to our exports. Moreover, intra-EU trade has increased from EUR 1 800 billion to EUR 3 000 billion from 2000 to today. So we have an opportunity to be in this market.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-419	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. It is important that we talk about the importance of the European internal market for our jobs and for the Swedish economy. I hope that the Government and the Government will continue to highlight the great importance that the EU actually has for Sweden and everything we benefit from being involved.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-420	Mr President, I would like to This is exactly what we do a lot of work on. Unfortunately, there are still many obstacles, despite the fact that we have an internal market. At the moment, we are seeing many obstacles to the possibility of exporting services. Service exports are going up, and that's why we're working on a service package. Most recently today, I was in Parliament discussing these issues. Sweden wants the barriers to be reduced so that we also have greater opportunities for large exports of services, not just exports of goods.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-422	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Anna Johansson. One of the first things that was done when the government Löfven took office was to set up an investigation to introduce a kilometre tax. There was no support in the Swedish parliament. A majority is against the mileage tax. But it's worse than that. For a small export-dependent country on the edge of Europe, this is a very bad policy. The investigation was then presented. Perhaps the government saw what everyone else had seen before. A majority in parliament, the business community, all the hauliers and those who drive the trucks understood that this was not good. The proposal was withdrawn. There are a little different answers from left-wing parties, environmentalists and social democrats depending on where you are. My question to Minister Johansson is: will you present this proposal before the end of the term of office or not?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-426	Mr President, I would like to I thank Edward Riedl for the question. I'd like to start by correcting a little bit. It is not that everyone else thinks this is a bad idea. On the contrary, this idea also has quite a lot of support in the industry referred to by Edward Riedl. On the other hand, the government was not entirely satisfied with the formulation of the proposal that was made. However, there are a number of issues that we need to deal with in the transport sector, particularly in heavy traffic. One is that foreign vehicles pay nothing for the wear they cause. Another is that we need to switch the transport sector to fossil independence. Another is that we need better order and control of heavy traffic in terms of social conditions. On all three points, the road wear tax could have helped. That is why the Government's ambition is to proceed with this proposal, but in some modified form.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-428	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. We do not have time to find out whether the haulage industry thinks it is good or not if it gets additional taxes to deal with. I think most people who listen still understand that the industry does not want more burdens to bear. You already live with very small margins. But have I interpreted the Government correctly, Mr President, if I interpret her reply as wanting to make a proposal before the end of this term of office? Then we can stop discussing whether or not there is a proposal. Is it the government's intention to make a proposal?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-430	Mr President, I would like to This is, above all, an issue that is being prepared at the Ministry of Finance, because it is a matter of taxes. Whether there will be a ready-made proposal to present this term of office is still somewhat unclear, but the ambition to proceed with this proposal is definitely with the government. The industry is also calling for fair conditions and competition neutrality, to which this proposal would contribute in the right way. We have the ambition to move forward, both for the sake of the climate and for healthy competitive conditions in the industry.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-433	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister Per Bolund. We all know that only a few days ago the spring bill and the spring budget were released. When I read this, there were a couple of things that stuck out for me in the area of migration and establishment and the costs related to the immigration policy and migration policy that have been carried out in our country. Often in the debate you can hear from the government – that was the case earlier today – that you are taking a strong stance and that you have actually got your finances in order and reduced unnecessary expenditure. However, the Spring Bill does not mention in a word that the already large relative migration will need to increase as a result of the large reception in 2015. Furthermore, there is talk of a reduction in expenditure on establishment under Category 13, while at the same time moving that expenditure to another category of expenditure. We have heard for a long time that gender budgeting has been carried out by, for example, the Green Party and the government. The Swedish Democrats wonder if they are prepared to account for the costs of immigration.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-437	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the government accounts for the various expenditure areas, just as all previous governments have done, and as I hope future governments will also. It is clear in the budget what resources we allocate to Category 8 Migration and to other areas of expenditure. It is clear that it has meant a cost for the Migration Agency to take care of the many people who came to Sweden during the autumn of 2015 in particular. I think, on the other hand, that it is too easy for you to think that this is just a cost. We see that it will also provide opportunities. I only met a few days ago a person who recently came to Sweden and is now researching artificial intelligence at the Royal Institute of Technology. There are many similar examples of people coming here with an amazing skill that Sweden really needs. I think you should see this a lot as an investment, too. That is why we are now putting resources into establishment to create the best possible conditions for the people who have come to our country to gain a stronghold in Sweden, enter the labour market and help to strengthen the funding of Swedish welfare for the future.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-440	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. The problem I would like to highlight is that we often do not take a holistic approach. With such a holistic approach, income and expenditure are of course included. But we hear very often from the government, not least, that responsibility has been taken and that the economy is heading in the right direction, while hiding expenditure by moving it to other areas of expenditure. A policy that encourages people to stay in the country is pursued. The possibility of appeal is increased, so that further legal assistance is needed. What do you intend to do in this regard?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-441	Mr President, I would like to In terms of order and order of public finances, anyone can go into the government's budget and look at the forecasts that apply. We turned deficits that were very strong during the previous government into surpluses as early as the first year. In 2016, we had a surplus of SEK 40 billion. Clearly, then, we have taken responsibility for Sweden's economy. Swedish finances are doing very well. Sweden stands out in terms of growth, labour market development, employment and many other areas. We should be happy and proud of this, but, of course, we will also take measures for an orderly migration policy and an orderly education policy.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-443	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Per Bolund. I think I see a trend from the government that it wants to control both consumption patterns and behaviour of the Swedish people via political influence from government agencies, something that I raised in the recent consumer debate. I am thinking, among other things, of the commission given to the Swedish Consumer Agency to work for a more environmentally friendly consumption. A fashion word used by the Minister for Consumer Affairs is a nudge. This is a word that most Swedes outside Södermalm have probably never heard. I think that we, as consumers, should be allowed to control our lives without getting touch sticks over one thing, than the other. Information is one thing, Mr President. Trying to influence is another.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-447	Mr President, I would like to It sounds like this question is based a little on a misconception – that we would use pointers and decide what people should consume. Of course it's very far from the truth. That is not at all what this question is about. On the contrary, it is about enabling the Swedish people, who have shown a great deal of commitment to sustainable consumption, to simply make it easier to do the right thing. Sales of organic products are increasing strongly in Sweden, as is sales of Fairtrade products. Swedish consumers respond in surveys that they want to make a greater difference to the environment when acting as consumers. But it is also said that it is difficult to find out. They want better tools and better opportunities to act as consumers. That is exactly what it is all about – simply finding tools to make it easy for us consumers to act in a way that enables us to take the environmental responsibility that we obviously want to take, judging from what we answer when asked. We feel that this is something that the Swedish Consumer Agency needs resources for and where there is a very strong demand from consumers for answers from, for example, the Swedish Consumer Agency. This is something that I feel most consumers appreciate.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-449	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Per Bolund. I think that the government should really consider whether it is appropriate for government authorities, through political decisions, to be given the task of influencing citizens. At least that kind of policy brings my mind to other governments in other parts of the world. I think you should be gentle, even though I understand that the purpose is good. In another time, it can be completely wrong.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-450	Mr President, I would like to It is also worth going back and looking at developments around the world. It turns out that Sweden is not the first to do this at all. Many countries have used this type of behavioral science method in the past. The United States is one such example. Under a conservative government, the UK set up a working group to work with nudges. It is an effective way of using resources in a smart way that provides good development for each tax chandelier. It is one way of making the use of our common funds more effective and ensuring that we achieve objectives in the best possible way and retain the consumer's freedom of choice.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-452	Mr President, I would like to I want to ask Per Bolund a question. Financial stability in Sweden is good. We really have two problems: the high indebtedness of households and our large and interconnected banking system. As far as household indebtedness is concerned, we have done a great deal, and there will be even more. But what I want to ask is the financial stability of the European Union, particularly in the area of EMU, where we know that there is concern in the financial market. There are smaller credit institutions that are in default or are about to fail. My question to the Government is: Does the Government understand that there is enough protection in the EU and in the EMU area, especially in the countries affected by this?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-455	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Börje Vestlund, for a very important question! One of the most important lessons from the previous financial crisis is precisely that no country's financial system is isolated, but we are very much affected by what is happening in the world around us. At that time, it was mainly the US financial institutions that were in trouble, which then caused surges to roll over the entire financial system in the world. It affected Europe to a great extent and Sweden to a lesser extent because we had just built up shelters. We shall continue to do so. We are building up protection that enables us to resist when problems arise. We also know that work has been going on within the European Union. A new resolution mechanism has been established. Resolution reserves are now being built up in the euro zone but also in other Member States. It is an important work to preserve financial stability in the EU. However, we believe that more can be done and would encourage other EU countries to perhaps take on a little more when it comes to building reserves in order to manage risks in the financial systems. Sweden stands out here and has taken heights to have greater security in our financial system than many other countries.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-459	Mr President, I would like to It is true that the resolution mechanism exists. After all, it is relatively new and has not been around for long. In our country it was introduced last year. There are sometimes criticisms of the lack of sufficient resources in the resolution mechanism. My question is this: is it in Europe that the ramparts are present in each country or by all means in the whole area of EMU?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-461	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we are better equipped now than we were when the financial crisis hit Europe. It has now been agreed within the EU to build up 1% of guaranteed deposits within the resolution mechanism, which provides better protection. On the other hand, we know that the consequences of the previous financial crisis were much greater than that. That won't be enough. We must also take other measures to ensure that banks are well equipped and have the mechanisms they need to maintain stability.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-463	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Infrastructure. Sweden, which is an export-dependent country, needs a well-functioning infrastructure not only here at home but also in our surrounding world. It is particularly important when it comes to two of our largest trading partners, namely Norway and Germany. There we have an infrastructure that goes through two Nordic countries, Norway and Denmark, on which we are heavily dependent. This infrastructure is important not only for border commuting, although it is also a major issue, but above all for industry and its ability to get its goods out in Europe. Now I see that the Nordic perspective is reflected in the infrastructure proposal adopted in December and in the directive to the Finnish Transport Administration on the action plans, and I am pleased about that. I would like to ask the Minister if she can develop how the Nordic perspective and the Nordic co-planning are taken into account.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-467	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Rikard Larsson, for the question! This is an important issue, as Rikard Larsson says, both in order for our export industry to be able to get its goods out but also in order for us to get goods in. We are each other's most important trading partners but also very important labour markets. I would like to add a further perspective. It is Finland, where we have a large exchange in the northern parts of Sweden. I initiated a meeting with the Nordic Transport Ministers last year. At any rate, there was a rather broad consensus on the need to see the Nordic dimension in infrastructure planning. We have given Trafikverket the task of considering it when drawing up the next proposal for an action plan. But I think there are other things to do. I'll be back in my next half-minute and try to account for a few of those things.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-469	Mr President, I would like to Since Question Time is an opportunity to think a little more freely, I would like to take a brief example. SSAB drives sheet metal to Italy. The average speed across Europe is nine kilometres per hour," SSAB says. This is because the railways are being slowed down by border crossings and various systems. I have a question from the Single European Sky, where we have a joint cooperation between Sweden and Denmark. Could there be something similar in the railway?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-472	Mr President, I would like to The railway package aims to create a single European rail market. If it was fully successful in what was now the result, it would be doubtful. But it is an important issue to continue to work on. It is also important that we continue our work with the Finnish Transport Agency and the equivalent in the other Nordic countries and do common needs analyses. That is the basis for how one then prioritises and plans. There are several such examples. I think we need more common ways of calculating needs.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-476	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson. I just came from Folkets Hus at Norra Bantorget. It's about a mile from Drottninggatan straight ahead. It is the same street and the same road as a hijacked truck ran amok on the afternoon of April 7. Until then, people stressed out as usual. Today, Drottninggatan leaves no unmoved. For my part, the heart starts to clap. It kind of pushes over your chest, not out of fear, but out of grief and anger. It is grief for those who lost their lives and were injured and angered at how this could happen. In the media we have read that the Minister for Infrastructure met the industry, truck manufacturers and trade unions. I therefore wonder how the Minister for Infrastructure sees how vehicle hijacking can be made more difficult to use for terrorist purposes, as we have seen in Stockholm but also around Europe in recent years.
i-NVdFzXCzyJWevYxn8ND97U	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Teres Lindberg. I think that everyone in this room and very many others, really the entire Swedish people, share that feeling of almost unreality but also the warmth that has characterized the work after the deed. I would like to start by pointing out that the transport sector does not have a particular responsibility to prevent acts of terrorism, but it has the law enforcement authorities in particular. But it is also important to try to identify things that may make it difficult to use peaceful things, such as trucks, in these types of attacks. At the meeting I had with the industry in a broad sense, there were a number of different proposals about influencing the design of the urban environment to create safer environments, technical equipment in trucks, procedures for unloading and loading in populated environments, etc. I hope that we will have further proposals in the next few days.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-482	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I would also like to emphasise that the fight against hate and terror must always be shared. It must be everyone's responsibility. I would also like to highlight the human responsibility that I think the Stockholms have shown not least with the love manifestation that was arranged in Stockholm but also the dignity and respect that the Stockholms have shown each other on this issue. It is precisely this, with love and preventive security work, that hate can be combated.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-485	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with what Mr Lindberg says. There is also reason to look at things that need to be changed in regulations at EU level, for example in the case of technical equipment in heavy-duty vehicles. It is, of course, important to have common rules. I have therefore taken the initiative to raise this issue at the Council of Ministers meeting that takes place at the beginning of June, and I have also had contact with the Commissioner on these issues. There are certainly more areas where action is needed.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-488	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Anna Ekström. Today, the School Commission has presented its final report. Among other things, it wants to strengthen government funding, not least for schools that have a little tougher conditions. It proposes to strengthen funding for vulnerable schools by SEK 6 billion. The Commission states that the money can come from both redeployment of existing state subsidies and from the addition of new funds.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-491	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for the question. Today we have received a smoking fresh final report from the School Commission, and it will now be sent out for a referral. To answer detailed questions about how different proposals are to be financed today is a little early. We have a functioning budgetary process in which various forms of proposals are drawn up that require funding. I cannot anticipate that budgetary process by giving any information of the kind requested by Maria Stockhaus. On the other hand, I can say that it is very welcome to receive a proposal from the School Commission that is underpinned by a fairly thorough analysis and expresses a collective desire from the professions and researchers that are part of the School Commission. We shall, of course, take the Commission's proposal very seriously.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-493	Mr President, I would like to Swedish school also needs resources in the form of more and good teachers. It is a major flaw in Swedish school today that many qualified teachers are missing. We in the Moderates want the teaching time of the teacher education to increase quality and increase opportunities for more people to get through. I wonder if the government intends to come up with any proposals for higher quality teacher training before this term of office is over.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-495	Mr President, I would like to In this area too, the Commission is putting forward proposals which are very interesting. These are proposals on how to strengthen recruitment for teacher training and how to broaden so that more people can apply for different forms of supplementary educational education. But they are also proposals for professional development for the teachers we already have, as well as proposals to expand excellent teaching environments in the teaching colleges. We will prepare these proposals, and I am very much looking forward to the consultation opinions.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-498	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Anna Johansson concerning infrastructure. As a Stockholmer since childhood, it is clear to me that my hometown is in many ways a shared city and that the Stockholm region is a shared region. It is clear to me that the southern side has become a bit of a shadow side, which has been downgraded both in terms of public transport and in terms of roads and the labour market. Here I think there is a great opportunity in the so-called Stockholmsbåken, i.e. that from Tyresö to Täby you should be able to move with a BRT solution, i.e. fast, smart buses that allow you to quickly get between different regional centr um.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-502	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mathias Tegnér, for the question! This is one of the key issues both in the infrastructure bill and in the action plan directives, that is to say to create functioning labour market regions and efficient commuting opportunities, along with a number of other factors such as freight availability, cross-border, climate and housing construction, to name but a few. How the Finnish Transport Administration then chooses to prioritise different objects is a later question. Political management will be another later issue. But improving commuting opportunities is definitely an important part of the directives to the Finnish Transport Administration.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-503	Mr President, I would like to I would just like to emphasise the importance of public transport precisely when it comes to connecting the Stockholm region and creating functioning labour markets. Then, in the specific case, I think that the Stockholm Arc from Tyresö to Täby is very important. But what I really want to highlight is precisely the need for public transport in the Stockholm region to create a functioning labour market across Stockholm.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-504	Mr President, I would like to Public transport is not the responsibility of the state, but it is in this case Stockholm County Council that has responsibility for operating public transport throughout the county and to connect the various parts of the county. It is also important to stress that the more one can concentrate on common priorities regionally, the easier it is to come up with good priorities in the next step. This is perhaps a contribution: the local and regional level has an extremely important role to play here.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-506	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Anna Ekström. The freedom of choice in school and the right to choose school are here to stay. We can make that clear after reading the School Commission's statement today, and that is, of course, something that the Moderates welcome. In order to ensure that we still increase the possibility of breaking segregation and getting out of destructive housing segregation, the School Commission also proposes the introduction of an active school election, which is also welcomed by the Moderates and which we have proposed in this House in the past. For far too long, Swedish school debate has been paralysed by a discussion about good schools' goods or non-goods. It would now be gratifying if we could put it behind us. Therefore, my question to Minister Anna Ekström is: Does the government intend to throw the welfare inquiry into the trash and instead join the School Commission's proposal and thereby guarantee that good free schools can continue to operate in Sweden?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-509	Mr President, I would like to I have, as apparently Erik Bengtzboe has done, carefully studied the report by the School Commission. In fact, I have found no passage in that report that rejects the welfare inquiry that Erik Bengtzboe has both today and in the past rejected. The welfare inquiry is one thing; the School Commission is another. We are currently preparing the proposals of the Welfare Investigation in the Government Office. I cannot tell you here how we will proceed with this. Nor is it my responsibility. What I can tell you, however, is that for the government it is very important that the Swedish school is a school where the focus is on students' knowledge and education. The main purpose of the Swedish school should be to ensure that students learn a lot, and knowledge and education should be at the centre. Then we see problems with a school based on the fact that the purpose is to create profit. This is something that the government has discussed and will continue to discuss regardless of the School Commission's proposal.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-512	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, and I also have to say that it was something of a non-reply. On the one hand, the government says that it should devote the future discussion to focusing on quality and how we strengthen quality in Swedish schools. On the other hand, a hot hunt is conducted on schools in Sweden that may work best through the Welfare Investigation. It would be welcome, at least in the light of the School Commission's statement today, that the information could be given that the hundreds of thousands of parents who have children in free schools do not need to look for new schools.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-513	Mr President, I would like to What the School Commission says clearly states that we have freedom of choice in Swedish schools, and we will retain it. We have a diversity in Swedish school, and we will retain it. However, to conclude from this that we must have exactly the system we have today with the precise rules of establishment and the precise rules of free choice that apply today is to go a little too far. We are happy to study the School Commission's rather comprehensive proposal and instead focus on knowledge and education, not profit hunting.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-515	That concludes today's Question Time. I should like to thank the ministers and the Members who have participated in it.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-516	Mr President, I would like to Social Democrat Helene Petersson in Stockaryd claimed that the Liberals had said that you are not doing anything against young offenders. That's not correct. I commented on a number of measures, such as on-call courts to prosecute young people more quickly and more effectively, and we also pointed out the old penalty investigation, which quite correctly raised the issue of contact obligations and youth monitoring, which the government is now looking at again. But our criticism, which I maintain, is that today, when the House takes a decision in about an hour's time, you will reserve your reservations against the majority of committees in reviewing the so-called youth rebate for young offenders between the ages of 18 and 21. In my speech, I also asked how it might be that the Social Democrats say, on the one hand, that they want to reject this because there is work in the Government Office while, on the other hand, referring to a statement by the Prime Minister that it is to be reviewed, but I never got any answers in lines with the Social Democrats. Here we need clarifications from Helene Petersson in Stockaryd and the Social Democrats.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-519	Mr President, I would like to If Roger Haddad had read our reservations properly, he would have seen that it says that we have reservations because there is work going on. We do not take a position on the substance of the matter. I might be extra formalistic after 12 years in the Constitutional Committee. An announcement means you want the government to do something. It is a request, an order, from the Riksdag to the Government. We think that an announcement is totally unnecessary when the work is already under way.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-521	Mr President, I would like to I don't share that picture of reality. Obviously, no work is under way on reviewing the scale of penalties for young offenders aged 18 to 21. That's probably why Prime Minister Stefan Löfven at a visit to Nordstan in Gothenburg said in the media that the government wants to change the penalty discount for young people. I think our motion is valid. It states that a review should be carried out. We do not write that the penalty scales should be completely phased out or scaled down. We may think of this as individual parties, but the very proposal you are calling for today is a review of the so-called penalty rebate for young offenders. You have to make up your mind. Either there is work going on in the Government Office, or it is not. I have read your reservation very carefully in the report. You refer to a statement made by the Prime Minister in the media, not to an ongoing mission in the Government Office. There is a big difference between a formal, official government decision and an oral statement. I hope Helene Petersson agrees with that. Is Helene Petersson saying that what the Prime Minister is after is already going on in the Government Office?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-525	Mr President, I would like to There's work going on. When we came to power in 2014, there was the Sanctions Investigation. The government began to look at the proposals point by point. Already in November – December 2014 came a bill. The government picked up some of the proposals prepared by the previous government, which included Roger Haddad's party, and they could be put into effect quickly. Then the government has also looked at other issues. As far as the penalty rebate is concerned, there has been some doubt. Is it good to implement the proposals? At the same time, the Sanctions Committee was clear that the proposals should be introduced. As with the other proposals on youth sanctions, we see that it has been five years. It is not possible to accept the Sanctions Committee's proposal directly. They must be supplemented. That is what the Prime Minister has expressed. One directive has already arrived. This is something you have to go on with. Nor do I know how far the second directive has been drafted, but I am absolutely convinced that the Prime Minister is not going out without work going on.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-531	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate a number of proposals from the general period of exercise that deal with society's emergency preparedness. After the Cold War ended and the Warsaw Pact was dissolved in 1991, we in Sweden slowly but surely began to dismantle civil defence, and what was called total defence planning ceased. Now, Mr President, we are at a time when even the possibility of a war in Sweden cannot be ruled out, even in the short term. It is against this background that, for some years now, plans to rebuild civil defence have become increasingly concrete. We have also seen the beginning of a total defence plan. During the '90s and early '00s, when the war was considered impossible, only the crisis remained. That explains the title of the report: the emergency preparedness of society. It is important to remember that in modern times a war between technologically superior parties is the worst crisis that any country can face. That is why I am convinced, Mr President, that the concepts of civil defence and total defence will once again be used in the headings for reports of this kind and for proposals of the kind that will now be dealt with. There is an announcement from a united defence committee that the government must review our medical resources in response to extraordinary events. The background to this announcement is that now, under deepest peace, and even when there have been no crisis situations, several hospitals have had such pressure that they have had to go up to their staff position. This is a worrying signal which causes the committee to ask itself what happens to our healthcare system in the event of an extraordinary event. Unfortunately, Mr President, this has only recently been brought up to date in connection with the terrible terrorist attack that occurred almost two weeks ago in Stockholm city. It underlines the importance of the government now reviewing the health system. The Alliance has three reservations. The first concerns the emergency preparedness of our county boards, that is, our regional government representatives. It is a question of the fact that, in many places and for a long time, crisis situations have not been practised. A few years ago, when the forests of Västmanland burned, it was the first time in a very long time that a county administrative board had to step in and take over a rescue leadership in a difficult situation. This shows a need for practice among our county boards. The second reservation concerns the protection of socially important infrastructure. There, the background to the exercise is the problem that has existed with the infrastructure in Sweden in recent years. It is about possible sabotage of a large telemast in Västra Götaland. It is a question of the fact that, on several occasions, domestic air traffic has been halted as a result of various communication and IT problems. It is important that Sweden is robust and that our society and the critical part of our infrastructure also withstand stress. That is why we in the Alliance believe that the government should now review the situation and see how protection can be strengthened. The third reservation concerns food security. Sweden currently imports more food than we produce ourselves. It poses risks with regard to what is called security of supply, namely the possibility of putting food on the table throughout our country in the event of a crisis or war. It is not only the case that Swedish food production is decreasing. In addition, individual households' preparedness when it comes to food is rather limited. That is why it is important, Mr President, that the government now looks at how security of supply can be improved. In this context, it is perhaps a bit pitiful that the Vice-Chairman of the Defence Committee, Åsa Lindestam herself, has raised a motion in about the same direction, but unfortunately the Social Democrats have not supported the motion when the committee has dealt with the proposals. It's boring. Otherwise, we would also have been able to give the government an important task. Mr President, I would like to For time winning, I only agree to reservation number 2.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-542	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the reservation on paragraph 18, reservation 11. We have to debate society's emergency preparedness, a subject that has never been as topical as it is now. When extraordinary events occur, we see that society's ability to prepare for the right crisis is crucial for the consequences of these events. Our society is never more robust than our emergency preparedness. I would therefore like to begin by thanking all those who responded to the tragic attack on Drottninggatan here in Stockholm just over a week ago. You professional people who so naturally take on your duties in a crisis situation, many times at risk of your own safety, are all admirable. Your efforts are crucial to the consequences of such an extraordinary event. The report contains a total of 60 motions and a total of 21 reservations. I suppose that shows the great commitment to the subject. In addition, it contains an announcement to the government. The government should review the consequences of the lack of resources that led to staffing positions in several hospitals. Despite the lack of a well-functioning reporting system, the lack of resources has meant that staffing positions have been introduced on many occasions without extraordinary occurrences. If we can already see the staff position in our hospitals during a normal week, what are the resources in case of a major accident or other extraordinary occurrence? What does it mean for all those who work in our hospitals that the workload is so tough that the operations are put in the staff position ordinary weeks? Working in operations with a staff position means working with less resources and being forced to prioritise tough. Each decision can have consequences in a completely different way from a normal working day. This must be reviewed by the government. I find it frightening that the government has not chosen to tackle this challenge instead of concentrating on the debate on welfare gains. It is functional primary care that relieves the emergency health care when needed. No private health centre receives more in compensation than public health care; yet this is where political commitment is put instead of social dangerous queues. Each care centre with queues means an increased burden for emergency care and a risk of staffing. It is a dangerous political priority in the debate by our government and its left-wing support party. We need to strengthen our emergency preparedness in almost all areas. Only by having a good preparedness in peacetime and without society being subjected to extraordinary events will we also have in crisis and war an ability to shift efforts and resources. We need clearer objectives and plans for different types of threats and crises that a modern society can face. We need to make better use of the experience from the evaluation of the major crises and extraordinary events that have occurred in Sweden. The experience of the Great Westmanland Fire showed that the robustness of preparedness is not just about resources. It is about leadership – that there is strong leadership but also that leadership has a mandate to make decisions and that decisions are implemented quickly and efficiently. Last week I had the opportunity to visit the Italian equivalent of MSB. It is an organization that is used to both earthquakes and volcanic eruptions even if they do not occur every year. The clear message from this organisation was that the person responsible for emergency preparedness should also have a full mandate to decide on action. No decisions should be made between the chairs, and all the important functions of society should be at the decision table. Here, even the correctional services were represented. In addition, there was a strong civil commitment, and people were often very aware that the disaster could be just around the corner. After the Salabrand, MSB has also clearly set up action as an important quality in a way that was not previously done. There must not be a culture where you can escape responsibility if you are passive. Even if some decisions in a crisis or a war become less good, there must always be action so that actions are put in time. Cooperation must work, and hidden power struggles must not affect the outcome of a crisis. Furthermore, we want to see more of organizational development and less of short projects in our organizations. There must be a continuous development of the business, and it must not stop at the end of the project money. Training crisis preparedness is an important and valuable part of learning where weaknesses and development needs are. That's something we need to do more of. The exercises also reveal the need for all of us to take responsibility for and think about being prepared in the event of a crisis or war. There is a danger of being a well-functioning country with a low level of threat to natural disasters and also of being a country that has had the happiness of not being at war for 200 years. We have a population that is quite unusual in extraordinary events. However, this does not mean that people are not involved. On the contrary, we can see that there is a great deal of commitment from many quarters, as tragedy still strikes us. But we need to better organize and harness the power of personal commitment. More people need to know clearly where and what can be helped if needed. Here the county administrative boards need to make better and more efficient use of resources. There is work to be done to ensure that the population has both the necessary knowledge and awareness. A country's emergency preparedness is never stronger than the capacity and commitment of the civilian population. This also applies, of course, to other threats that may arise in a modern, open society. The ability of people to critically review and absorb the information that is being disseminated is crucial. However robust our information systems are and no matter how well our free media works, we can never fully protect ourselves against impact attacks. If, then, a large part of our population actually has the ability not to believe in everything that is conveyed, it is really the best protection against impact attacks. This is something we have to start with already in school. Swedish school is pretty good at this, but we can of course do more. Perhaps emergency preparedness training should be on schedule in the same way as other important subjects. Our infrastructure, like our other communications, is important to protect and guard. That much of our food and other vital supplies are produced far from us has its risks. We live a lot in a just-in-time society, where goods are only available for a short time in shops near us and where large central warehouses and containers on the oceans are largely crucial for next week's access to food. This, of course, involves a risk, a risk that we must best reduce. We need to look at how we can make our transport and infrastructure less vulnerable. We are pleased with the emergency preparedness week planned for 8-14 May and hope that in as many municipalities as possible it will be a wake-up call for both municipalities and citizens on the important subject of crisis preparedness.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-564	Mr President, I would like to I'm going to put a little of a new angle on this subject today. Mikael Jansson will then talk about other parts of the emergency preparedness that we think are necessary – food supply, fuel supply, storage and so on. We are debating emergency preparedness, but I have some concerns. Last time we debated the defense. Several of you have said that now, given the situation in Russia, we must raise the defence and build a new and stronger defence. Not what it looked like before, however-- it takes hundreds of billions, possibly, before we're there again. That is what worries me: we have always argued that we must have a strong defence over time. We can discuss the level of that. This applies both to civil and military defence. Surely it is not the case that if they were to become calmer in Russia we would destroy everything again. We are not going to break down what is being built up on Gotland, I hope, but, as we have said, maintain a strong defence over time. The level we can discuss. That said, I'm going to go over to emergency preparedness. In my view, this is a crisis within the country. We saw that on Drottninggatan. It's in our alienation areas, as they're called. Those who suffer most from this are those who live in these areas. They're all heartbroken about car fires, and the police can't get in. Possibly they can come in if they're strong enough. Bluelight personnel are exposed to stoning and so on. Who takes responsibility? Yes, you have not taken much responsibility in the past, in our opinion. The biggest threat to Sweden's security today is within the country. Every day there are crises everywhere. Why, Mr President, must there be an act of terrorism in order to review the possibility of criminalising participation in terrorist organisations? Why must a terrorist act be required for this? Answer it! How far will it have to go before politicians assume their responsibilities? This is the fault of politicians, not of immigrants. On 3 April, Per Ossmer, the Swedish Democrats, raised the issue of potential terrorist attacks with vehicles and what the Stockholm City Board has done to prevent such a thing in Stockholm – a few days before. Environmentally-partisan Transport Commissioner Daniel Helldén says – and this is on video recording – that it is the police and Säpo who are responsible for preventive measures. This refers to the environmental party stone and says that the trafik office does not have the competence to deal with these issues. I guess he doesn't have the skills. Today we hear on the news that the City of Stockholm will put up more and heavier obstacles to prevent such things from happening again. So the reaction comes afterwards, and no preventive measures are taken. Why are we doing this? How many more acts of terror will the environmentalists manage before you begin to understand that you must act before, proactively? The Green Party has consistently opposed the work of the Security Service against terrorism. I have many examples of this that I am prepared to read out here a little later. If the expulsions had taken place as we have suggested, the last time it had not happened, it is to be assumed that this could happen anyway. But many of these crimes – the murders of Ikea, the latest act of terror – have been committed by people who do not have the right to be in the country. Now the Green Party is calling for a anklet and is being strongly criticised for it in the newspapers today. Now the dark forces come forth again! Then you cried over border controls, and now you want a anklet. It could change fast! The numbers vary, but it is between 4,000 and 12 500 that have deviated – where are they? We don't know that. Why don't we know? You send a letter and tell them not to be in the spirit. And what have you done? 50 crowns for a dental visit and free schooling; the children are going to school. But there is no obligation to say that he is not allowed to be in the country. He's illegal. He's going out. Now it sounds different, doesn't it? Now these things have happened. How many more will happen before you follow the line that we advocate? Those who are a threat to Sweden's security must be stored and expelled. How hard can it be? This is our responsibility – to protect the Swedish population in the first place. Now is the time to take that responsibility and not cowardly out, as you do, because you are afraid of what will be in Aftonbladet and Expressen tomorrow. Now it's time to put your foot down properly! Let us also take a centre party so that it is a bit fair, Mr President. 16 December 2012: A natural consequence for those who believe in everyone's equal value is to open the borders. All restrictive rules on immigration are abolished, said 2012. Is this taking responsibility? Today sounds different, doesn't it? There is not a center party that would come up here and say the same thing. For now there have been acts of terrorism, and then we are more and more adhering to the policies that we are pursuing, have put forward and have put forward proposals for. But we think it is good that you should change your mind in this paragraph. Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister says after the latest act of terror: We must stick together in Sweden; cohesion is important. Isn't that right? We're all gonna stick together and unite. Then he says, or thinks: Yes, perhaps 1 1⁄2 voters voted wrong. We don't cooperate with them. In this House, it would never occur to us to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats. That's what many of you say. What do you think of democracy? What kind of signals do you send out to society when it comes to cohesion? You are showing contempt for perhaps 11⁄2 voters by not wanting to cooperate with me, who represent them in defence matters and other matters. What are you thinking? What is your view of democracy? How much is it worth? Mr President, I would like to I believe that a politician must have the courage to take preventive action. I think that cohesion should be stronger between us so we can at least discuss what we do not agree on and do not exclude large parts of the democratically elected assembly. Here, I think you should get your act together! In our opinion, the Prime Minister, the former and the present, should represent the whole people, a bit statelike, and not shut out a large part. We shall have cohesion in Sweden, but not with them. That's exactly what he says and does. I think it has to do with the characteristics, Mr President. I really believe that the politicians who have been here now are too cowardly to stand up and take the necessary measures for security in Sweden. I think that's because you're terrified of what's going to be in the papers tomorrow. How will you be hanged? I believe that this is directly harmful, and if you continue in this way, in view of what has happened in this area too, you should come up here and apologise to the Swedish people for your failure to act. And those of you who have taken part in these decisions should resign.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-583	Mr President, I would like to It is something of an achievement not to touch in any way on the area covered by this report, namely the emergency preparedness of society, for almost eight minutes. On the other hand, Roger Richtoff has done a large exposé on a long line of parliamentary committees – the Social Security Committee, the Justice Committee and much more – and their questions. Then Roger Richtoff says that he thinks that cohesion is too bad, and he marvels that the Swedish Democrats are not more embraced by the other parties. But second later, Mr President, he falls into a language that I react very strongly to when it is used in this House. He says that his colleagues are cowards and that they should be ashamed. On a previous occasion, he has said that we individual Members should go up to the pulpit and apologise to the Swedish people. I would just like to make the simple point to Roger Richtoff that it is not possible to attack, criticise and detract from his political colleagues one second and believe in the next second that the Swedish democrats will be embraced. Mr President, I would like to I am happy to acknowledge that from time to time the Swedish Democrats have put forward proposals that are balanced and objective and hopefully also in part effective. But at the same time there is a fundamental tone in the party, not least through Roger Richtoff, which at least for my personal part excludes all forms of cooperation.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-587	Mr President, I would like to I had expected nothing but such a response from the Liberals. This response, Mr President, already gave the honourable Member before the speech. Even before I spoke on defence, we heard the same thing. We have heard the leader of the party say: We will never talk to the Swedish Democrats. We can back off another year before I had said a word in this House. Eventually, this will earn you a lot of money. I understand that Allan Widman feels no responsibility whatsoever for the development that has taken place in Sweden. Ullenhag you sent to Jordan because it was impossible to keep him in Sweden. He was Sweden's answer to Baghdad Bob, roughly. It's true! He came up with lies and myths and said that there was really no problem. You were responsible for that. You were in government. But it's gone. Those of us who criticise it are now referred to as racists and xenophobics. And now you expect a tone of humility, I suppose. Forget it, Allan Widman, forget it! It's over now. Now you're gonna take responsibility. You've been cowards, and you're handing over the problem. You do not see that there is a crisis in Sweden. Emergency alert's on the rise. Hospitals take care of injured and wounded because of your policy. It has to do with emergency preparedness. As I said, we have divided things up, and Mikael Jansson will take the usual questions. The fact that it doesn't fit Allan Widman doesn't make me sleepless.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-591	Mr President, I would like to No, I don't expect any humility, Roger Richtoff. I expect objectivity. The problem with your policy is that you systematically – not openly and explicitly but systematically – suspect a large proportion of the people who are in Sweden and who have come to Sweden in recent decades. You're not saying this in the speaker's chair. You say the opposite – that it is not the immigrants' fault and not the migrants' fault. But basically, your whole policy is on the systematic suspicion. However, Mr President, Roger Richtoff never dare to make a full statement in this speaker's chair. This relationship and a number of other things that I have to add about the view of Russia and the political developments there, which is about the unwillingness of the Swedish democrats to contribute to sanctions when this country annexed country in Ukraine and Crimea – all of which, Mr President, in no way inspires confidence. I believe that this cannot be the basis for any responsible government of this country. Mr President, I would like to That is why I will not embrace the Swedish Democrats.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-595	Mr President, I would like to Systematic statement, says Allan Widman. It doesn't get any better, Allan Widman. It's not gonna get any better because you're making this up and lying that we wouldn't have supported the sanctions against Putin. It doesn't get any better because you're lying. I have submitted a list of how we voted in the European Union to the Center Party. Have you read it? Do it! None of what you're saying is true. I can't do that anymore. It went well before we came in here, but today you must have more facts when you claim things. You've been involved in destroying the Swedish defense. You have destroyed the civil defense. You broke the systems. Where is your responsibility for that? When I tell you that you should apologize to the Swedish people, you think I'm rude. That's no way to say to you. Björklund has called us racists and xenophobics. Do you think we are? That's what your party leader says – an old officer colleague to me. That is not what he said when we met at the time, nor today when we met outside the Chamber. But in this Chamber he does not hang out, because we are racists. This is not good enough, Liberals. It is not good enough to have the argument that you have and then believe that you should be treated with friendship and that we should view you respectfully and with courtesy when you stand and throw back words like racists. It's over now, Allan Widman. Take your responsibility and apologize to the Swedish people for what you have done!
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-599	Mr President, I would like to The National Board of Health and Welfare makes many judgments. A risk and vulnerability analysis shows that almost half of all county councils have not even analysed the resources needed to manage an extraordinary event. An example of such an event is a terrorist attack. More than half of Sweden's county councils lack procedures for how to ask for or receive reinforcement resources from other county councils or nationally. About 30 per cent of county councils do not have an agreement with other actors on strengthening resources. This can lead to delays and uncertainty and to inefficiency in case of sudden and urgent needs. This is serious. These are important issues for the basic crisis preparedness management in our society. Good emergency preparedness requires both planning and practice and collaboration. That as many as over a third of county councils believe that their planning for education and training is inadequate leaves the question mark as to where we stand. Not only are the training and training plans inadequate; the exercises that are still being carried out reveal major health care challenges in the event of major injury events caused, for example, by terrorism. What the catastrophic medical capacity had looked like in Stockholm in the event of a major damage and even more deaths we cannot know. On the other hand, a scenario analysis carried out by MSB of a terrorist attack in central Stockholm with a high risk of injury shows that the health care system would be very heavily burdened during the handling of the incident. It is about the ability of healthcare professionals to prioritise and take care of injured persons, including the release of care places, the need for short- and long-term specialist skills, to secure access to blood, helicopter transport and more. All of this is critical. The National Board of Health and Welfare has informed about more scenario analyses and exercises, not least one where seven county councils at regional level are involved. This is a serious train accident with many injured and burned patients. The conclusions of this are very important to take with us in the continued work on how to dimension our total crisis preparedness in Sweden. It is also about how we work with documentation and situational descriptions, communication and terminology, mobilization and routing of resources, distribution strategy and boundary capacity. This shows the need to develop national coordination and how we will work further in practice to become even more rigorous and skilled. Crisis preparedness is based on a principle of responsibility: The person responsible for the regular operations must also have it during more extraordinary events and crises. It is a matter of responsibility to take the necessary measures to prevent, resist, manage, restore and learn from accidents and crises. Within their respective areas of responsibility, all actors in society must ensure that emergency preparedness work is developed. MSB highlights five development areas to strengthen crisis preparedness. Among other things, crisis preparedness and civil defence need to be given higher priority and knowledge of each other's roles and responsibilities in crisis preparedness needs to be increased. Work on risk and vulnerability analyses needs to be developed significantly. It is also mentioned that it should be possible to have dimensional scenarios that can complement and develop emergency preparedness. And there are clear demands on our socially important activities. One example of one of the many vulnerabilities that we see, which is also documented in the work that is done in a very good way, is this: By 2015, half of the population had not made any practical preparations to be able to face a long-term power outage. The question is how many people have done it today. How many have reflected on the consequences of a long-term power outage for the individual, but also for the inhabitants of a village or a municipality, for employees and managers of a company or for community services? This is linked to the start of total defence planning, which is an important pillar of the long-term work to strengthen crisis preparedness in Sweden. How we deal with the daily challenges is crucial for how we can handle the long-term challenges. It is also about how we together can create a target image to increase our overall ability. However, the challenges are considerable. These are slim and non-redundant organizations. There are few key functions and positions in the work on these issues, making it even more vulnerable. At present, it can be difficult to scale up operations to face a crisis and also to dimension from different levels. There has been government money for several years to encourage and inspire local and regional emergency preparedness efforts. SKL and the state have made agreements that point the way forward for how this is to be. Now we are about to face a new agreement between the state and SKL. You can see what it looks like in county councils and municipalities. We know that there is much more to be done in order to prioritise these issues in the overall political leadership. Because that's not really the case in all municipalities. Resources have been received. You've done a lot of work. But perhaps experience from events needs to be taken care of in order to become even more focused on these issues. It is also about how we will strengthen communication locally between municipalities and within municipalities and regionally between municipalities, county councils and counties. Here there are things that are important to achieve even more pressure on these issues and also to strengthen emergency preparedness work. It is about the issue of safe communication. Often secret information is given in envelopes to each other between the state and the municipality. It could be a matter of protective objects. It could be about other issues. It is also about how the forthcoming decision on the 700-megahertz band will be and how we will use it to get a good coverage and be able to reconcile many different interests in the possible development work. There is also an investigation into the alert service. It must be handled with priority and not be delayed. There is an additional area which is affected and which we are following. It is about the challenges of civil protection. This concerns the provision of skills, human resources and the availability of personnel throughout the country. We know that there are and will be challenges that we must take seriously. No one should have to lose money by being a part-time firefighter, nor if you get out when you are otherwise unemployed. It requires well-trained staff available throughout the country. Civil protection has an extremely important role to play in the protection and security of society. People around the country must be able to trust that emergency services will be there when the accident occurs. The steps taken to encourage more local training and recruitment are positive, and regional training is being set up in the country to ensure that training is carried out as close to home as possible. Another area that is important when it comes to emergency preparedness is access to food. For the Center Party, it is extremely important to work on the issue of Sweden's food security and food security in the event of increased preparedness and war. This is currently being done in several instances, including within the framework of the work of the Defence Committee. Several aspects need to be deepened and highlighted. This applies from primary production to the processing and distribution of food. It is also important to investigate even more how to reduce the vulnerability of the food supply chain in the event of a crisis and to clarify the distribution of responsibilities in relation to food preparedness in the event of a crisis. Madam President, I would like I can take note of something. This is a comprehensive report – it is more than 80 pages – which contains many important areas. Roger Richtoff does not make very many connections in his speech. When it comes to leadership to address these issues, there are questions to Roger Richtoff about how to look at the content of today's report. I would like to support reservations Nos 6 and 4.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-620	Madam President, I would like The emergency preparedness of society is an extremely important issue for all of us. We were painfully reminded of it barely two weeks ago just a few blocks from here. I am, of course, grateful that the emergency preparedness in Stockholm worked as well as it did. Crisis preparedness places many and different demands. These are events ranging from the above-mentioned to major forest fires and disturbances in the supply of electricity. The Left Party has brought about an extensive exercise on the subject. However, this report deals with the issue of information security in civil administration, which is why I shall argue on this particular subject and ask for the approval of reservation No 7. Almost ten years ago, the Swedish National Audit Office examined the nature of information security among the civil authorities, and the results were distressing. Seven years later, the Swedish National Audit Office followed up the review in its report, 2014:23, on information security in the civil state administration. But despite the fact that seven years had passed, despite the fact that we had become increasingly dependent on IT systems in almost all areas of life, and despite the amount of attacks, nothing had been done to increase protection. The current government has put more momentum on it. But most of it still remains to be done, and it is urgent. Therefore, Mr. Age President, the Left Party believes that the Riksdag should request that the Government be given the task of making proposals for strengthening total defence in Sweden during its term of office. I therefore propose that the government should come back in the course of its term of office with concrete and cost-effective proposals on how to improve the protection of socially important functions.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-628	Mr. Old President! Today, therefore, we are debating the report by the Committee on Defence, which deals with issues such as civil protection training, prevention of natural disasters, food safety, individual responsibility and preparedness, the emergency preparedness system and civil defence. In the report, the committee proposes an announcement that the government should review the consequences of the lack of resources that led to the staffing situation in several hospitals in recent years in the event of an extraordinary event with a heavy burden on the health care resources of society. Mr. Old President! The emergency preparedness of society is a major, comprehensive and important issue. Society's emergency preparedness can be described as the ability to prevent, resist and manage crisis situations. The purpose of Swedish emergency preparedness is to protect the lives and health of the population, the functionality of society and the ability to uphold our fundamental values, such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights. Society's emergency preparedness should continue to develop and adapt to the threats, risks and vulnerabilities identified. The work should be imbued with a high level of risk awareness and understanding that there will be situations that society has not prepared for and that could have a major impact. The starting point for emergency preparedness is that the whole society with authorities, municipalities, county councils, private business and voluntary organisations jointly and within their respective areas takes responsibility for and develops the emergency preparedness work. The development work is important and must be balanced against the authorities' need to also develop and carry out other core activities. This also means that individuals take responsibility for their safety on the basis of their own circumstances. Crisis preparedness is also a fundamental prerequisite for civil defence work. Mr. Old President! As the committee has stated on several occasions, existing and civilian crisis preparedness activities developed over several years form a base for civil defence. As the Defence Committee's directive includes, among other things, making proposals in the light of the needs of increased preparedness and ultimately in war for the continued direction of the total defence for the years 2021-2025 and, in particular, highlighting the further development of coherent planning for the total defence – a work that has just begun – I believe that there is currently no reason to take any further action. The investigations developed in the light of the forest fire in Västmanland in 2014 and due to the refugee situation in 2015, the collaboration between MSB and the Swedish Armed Forces on the development of the Swedish Defence Agency and the Swedish National Audit Office's review work are examples of important starting values also for the county boards' continued work. The government's intention to significantly improve the county boards' ability to conduct efficient, efficient and cost-effective activities is welcomed by the committee. As far as exercises are concerned, these are very important for society to be well equipped in the event of a crisis. Knowledge of each other's roles and mandates is invaluable in such a context. The national collaboration exercise planned for spring 2018 on the theme of civil defence and the major total defence exercise in 2020 are also very valuable for the county boards' emergency preparedness work. It is therefore of great importance not to pre-empt the work of the Swedish Defence Committee, the implementation of future exercises and the associated return of experience or development work for the county administrative boards. Mr. Old President! As regards the individual's responsibility and preparedness, the committee continues to believe that the individual should be at the heart of the emergency preparedness work, and welcomes the efforts made at the municipal level through MSB and the recent government mission to the same authority. This is in line with the way in which the reasoning was taken in connection with the fact that we in committee produced our report on the crisis or the war coming. It has been stated by us in committee in the past that the need for information and education is great in society, and we therefore believe that the announced Emergency Response Week for the municipalities, and by extension all those living in the country, is central in this context. Authorities and NGOs, in conjunction with schools, also play an important role in meeting this need. In this context, the committee would like to stress that one of the results of its own follow-up was that the direct needs of civil defence were rarely explicitly taken into account in the flow of information and that preparations for increased preparedness and war required developed information. It is therefore gratifying that the government has chosen to point this out in the recent government mission to MSB. Mr. Old President! As regards the availability of emergency workers on standby, so-called part-time firefighters, it is of vital importance for civil protection activities overall. The support given to municipalities in various ways in the organisation of civil protection with part-time firefighters should continue to be developed. The establishment by the government of an investigation into a more efficient municipal civil protection service regarding the part-time fire brigade of civil protection is very important. The committee welcomes the fact that this work, as well as MSB's development work, should, among other things, be able to increase the possibility of providing part-time firefighters with training at regional and local level and that this in turn should help to achieve a long-term solution to the recruitment problem. The initiative taken by MSB, together with the Finnish Transport Agency and the Fire Protection Association, is also positive in order to increase road traffic safety for those in the emergency services who work to deal with road accidents. Mr. Old President! The issue of food security is a central part of our society's emergency preparedness, and I would like to stress the importance of Sweden ensuring flows of essential goods, and in particular its food supply, including drinking water, in a crisis situation. I agree with the government that the entire food chain should be so robust that serious pressures and disturbances can also be overcome with reasonable consequences for society. This in turn requires a functioning infrastructure such as roads, electricity, data communication and water supply. The whole country must be able to be supported. The government's previous decision to resume coherent planning for total defence plays an important role here. Due to the complexity of the food and drinking water area, the development of security of supply and emergency preparedness in this area requires very good collaboration between responsible actors in the form of companies, municipalities, county boards, central authorities, including the Swedish Armed Forces, and industry organisations. It is therefore gratifying that the proposal for a food strategy for Sweden emphasises precisely the importance of these issues. The outcome of the Government Office's preparation of the final report of the Drinking Water Investigation is also an important starting point for further work. I have had the privilege of meeting many of the voluntary defence organisations. What fascinates me is their work and commitment and their contribution to the crisis preparedness of total defence and society. They do a very important job. They help to increase the ability of individuals to deal with serious events, accidents and crises. As regards emergency preparedness in health care, the committee notes that there have been times recently that Swedish hospitals have had to introduce so-called staff positions in certain critical situations, such as overcrowding or in the event of an emergency staff shortage. In the committee's view, a development that requires health care to enter the staff position even in relatively normal circumstances is worrying, especially given that the possibility of providing adequate health care is likely to be less in the event of an extraordinary event with an even greater strain on health resources. Mr. Old President! At the end of March I was in Färgelanda municipality and visited Jimmy Högberg and his company Torglummans Eggs, and barely two weeks ago I visited Conny and Denise Karlsson at Hede Farm in Högsäter, an organic dairy farm. Both visits were very good, and we talked about many different issues, including how it is running these companies with everything it means. We also talked about how important they are for our emergency preparedness and food supply. After a visit to Hede Farm on April 7th, I checked on my phone and realized that something really serious happened here in Stockholm. Then followed many hours of updating and telling friends and acquaintances that I was safe. This terrible deed caused four people to die, many injured, relatives lost family members and many relatives worried about their loved ones who were injured. In the midst of this chaos were heroes from the rescue services, the police, paramedics and many volunteers who somehow helped to create security and who really did their utmost. We showed incredible ability by standing up for each other, helping and supporting each other at this difficult moment. Trust and together became important words. This is an important part of society's crisis preparedness. We're there for each other when it's necessary. Mr. Old President! I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the motion to be rejected.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-659	Mr. Old President! Today we are discussing emergency preparedness. A crisis can take many different forms. It could be pandemics, storms, outcasts, terrorism, grey zone problems and more. The more complex and specialized our society has become, the more complex is the threat picture and the different crises we may face. At the same time, emergency preparedness and civil defence have been a long-term priority. The fact that civil defence has been dismantled to such a large extent is something that we in the Green Party have been sceptical about. We have been advocating for a long time to increase the resilience of society by investing money in adapting society to climate change, making sure to produce locally grown food and creating a renewablely decentralised electricity system. All these reforms would help to increase resilience and reduce the risk of crises. If, however, a crisis strikes us, we must have the tools to deal with that situation. The task of the total defense is to prepare Sweden to be able to handle a war situation. Preparation for war also provides better preparedness in crisis. A concrete example today is the investment in more trucks for the Home Guard that five parties are behind as part of the defence arrangement made in the spring change budget. The trucks were justified on the basis of a need in a war scenario but can of course also be used in other scenarios, for example in the event of a natural disaster. Swedish crisis preparedness is based on the principle of responsibility, which means that the actor responsible for an area usually also has responsibility in case of a crisis. It's a good order. Turning to a new division of responsibilities that the Authority is not used to in a crisis situation risks creating more problems than it solves. In committee, we have heard examples of government practices in the face of various crises. Clearly, there is much to work with in some places. Good emergency preparedness requires regular training. A good example of when exercises still seem to have produced results is in connection with the recent attack on Drottninggatan, where both police and other authorities seem to have acted quickly and correctly. The media have shown that they had been practicing similar scenarios as late as a week before. I think this underlines the importance of practicing various crisis situations. As I mentioned at the outset, the civilian elements of the defence have been given a long-term priority. Now MSB, together with the Swedish Armed Forces, has been tasked with establishing coherent planning for total defence. By 2020, the supervisory authorities will have the capacity for collaboration and management. This is an important step in restoring Swedish emergency preparedness. In a few months' time, MSB and other authorities will present what measures they think need to be taken to ensure adequate reinforcement of the overall defence and hence of emergency preparedness. I look forward to their accounts and a discussion on these issues then. I support the committee's proposal in the report. There was an exposition from Roger Richtoff earlier about the Green Party that I feel deserves to be commented on. Roger Richtoff began by talking for a long time about issues that have nothing to do with what we are discussing today, but are more of a matter of justice. He argued that the Green Party has done nothing against terrorism. That is not correct in substance. The government has acted on a number of issues to combat terrorism. In brackets, I can say that it was more or less an empty table when we took office. What Roger Richtoff says is therefore simply not correct. So I hope he goes home and reads. Roger Richtoff is also very confused about why no other parties want to cooperate with him, which is why they exclude the Swedish Democrats and call them racists. Since Roger Richtoff asked me about this, I was going to answer it. The Swedish Democrats were formed from Nazi Preserve Sweden in 1989. It was a bunch of skinheads, an old Nazi named Klarström and others. In 1995 Mikael Jansson, who is Richtoff's colleague here, took office as party leader. He had to impose a uniform ban because it was apparently a big problem that people appeared in racist uniforms. But it took five more years for the Nazis from the National Democrats to break out of the party and form their own. We do not need to go back to the history of the Swedish Democrats to find examples of racism. The other month a Swedish democrat in SD in Färgelanda wrote on his Facebook page that one should try to create a conflict with Muslims by spreading slaughter waste from pigs on the streets, so that Muslims were provoked and attacked. Then you could fight back. Another Swedish democrat was out talking about 500 000 anti-democrats coming to Sweden per year if the red-greens got what they wanted. Now I have not even started talking about Kent Ekeroth who spreads right-wing propaganda about himself and around him when he is not out rolling with iron pipes. Yes, Roger Richtoff, I call you racists, and I dare stand for it. I don't care if the Moderates or anyone else has changed their mind and is prepared to invite you to a conversation. It's my posture and over my dead body that I'm going to change it.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-675	Mr. Old President! When talking about society's crisis preparedness, it is difficult not to mention those people who are the backbone of our crisis preparedness on a daily basis. It is about blue light personnel in different categories – police officers, paramedics and firefighters who meet Swedes in the most vulnerable and difficult situations they are affected by. So they are our backbone in crisis preparedness, and they deserve our attention. I can therefore say that it is a good thing that, after all, we have a Minister of Civil Affairs who is now talking about the need for more police officers. At the same time, however, it is also worrying. If it has taken so long for the Secretary of State to understand that we need more policemen, we are thinking about when he will understand that we also have problems with our firefighters. If it is the police who are the first in the queue and according to the message from the Social Democrats will be more at some point around 2024 – that is, a good way forward in time – you wonder where in the queue the firefighters stand and when they will be more. Could it be in the next century? I just want to let the Secretary of State know that he doesn't have that time. The situation of many part-time fire brigades is now acute. I do not think you can look up any newspaper in any part of the country without reading about mass redundancies and the problems created by the new RiB agreement. These are problems that now cause us to have an extremely problematic preparedness in many parts of the country. But even if these mass redundancies create a certain drama, it may not be what is most dangerous. In the event of mass redundancies, there is often a reaction that makes it possible to find solutions of various kinds. I believe that local arrangements have been made in many places in the country, and more are in the pipeline. What I think is the danger in the situation is when there are silent redundancies. The fire station that might have three shifts may have two and a half or two. Those firefighters who are still working part-time will have to work so hard that they will eventually not be able to cope. The whole situation then becomes fundamentally untenable. It is clear that one can criticise the RiB agreement developed by SKL. But I think we also need to look at the conditions in general. I believe that what the government has announced is not enough. The government says that one should develop an investigation that will be presented sometime next year. I therefore note that this entire term of office has been a lost chapter in the recruitment of part-time firefighters. I can also say that Ygeman chooses to talk about other things. Mr. Old President! Stockholm was recently shaken by a terrorist attack. But society's response showed robustness both in government action and in action by the population. So far, so good. At the same time, shortcomings appeared. One example is a problem that arose in border protection. The main safety officer in Stockholm, who felt that it was too dangerous for customs personnel to work unarmed, decided to introduce a so-called ban on protection at the time. 20 Friday night. This meant that qualified personnel who could have assisted the police in arresting one or more terrorists were instead sent home. It can be said that instead of the state protecting the population, civil servants were protected. I am not the person who can say whether this was right or wrong. That's for others to decide. But for me, it is not enough for customs not to know what to do in such a situation and for one of our law enforcement authorities to be perplexed when such a situation arises. You should have been trained, and this should have been investigated a long time ago. Sweden must be well equipped even in the face of a serious non-warlike event, and in such a situation it is not appropriate for personnel in critical social activities to go home because the safety representative finds that the situation is too dangerous. In such a situation, the whole of society must be able to solve its task, even if the situation is difficult. Today, we have clear legislation that does not meet the demands of society. That is why it needs to be reviewed. This example of customs officials sent home shows two things. Firstly, it shows that it is only when the systems are tested that shortcomings emerge. This is why regular and realistic exercises are important. It's only when we know how to move forward. Secondly, it shows that we need modernised legislation that will enable us, the whole of society, to meet all the challenges that can befall us. We should not have legislation which, for example, means that civil servants go home because the situation is perceived as too dangerous. We Moderates therefore believe that the modernisation of these laws should be a task for the Defence Committee to review. Today we have legislation that is mainly black and white. Either it's peace or it's war. But most conflicts today are not black and white. Most conflicts today are moving somewhere on the greyscale. I think that the terrorist attack in Stockholm shows just that. So how do we act in an event where we cannot demand the resources of society that we can do in the event of war? How do we act in other situations that may mean that we are in a warlike situation? And which government dares to push that button with the legislation that we have today? The answer I think is that we have legislation that makes it difficult for a government to actually act in such a way that one can face the threats and accidents that may come. Mr. Old President! I request the approval of reservation 4.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-690	Mr. Old President! Now we have a little extra debate here. Schröder talks about the Swedish Democrats in different perspectives, or he had two perspectives in particular. As far as the origin of the parties is concerned, I can guarantee that if we are to have a debate where we are talking about the origin of the parties, which we may not be doing now, the Swedish Democrats will win the debate. It will turn out that we have the least flaws and that the other parties must be ashamed more than we do. That's because SD is almost 30 years old; we're a young party. Many parties have been around for a long time. Many of the parties in this House – most of them – existed during World War II, and it was made wrong at the time. It was also wrong in the other parties at the beginning of the 20th century. However, we can have a debate on the shortcomings that existed when our parties arose. We're gonna win it. You can also list different party members who have broken. There's always bad eggs in all the parties. I think you know that. At the end of the 1980s, I was a center party and active in Örebro County. I remember an environmentalist in Hallsberg who wanted to give awards to the criminal Ursut because he was so friendly when he met the police in shots and stuff. It was a rather strange environmental party, and I don't think that how he is and where then really has any significance for what the Green Party is. There are no such comparisons that affect it, but are single bad eggs. Of course you can find a bad egg in our party too, and if you think it is interesting to bring this up in the debate on emergency preparedness, you can do so. Get back to the subject! For time winning, I only ask for reservation 20. Today, many turn their attention primarily to the effort to restore total defense. What has been lacking, above all, in our total defence is civil defence. It is therefore civilian resources that are needed in war to protect the population and serve military defence. Today, however, we should not focus on civil defence, but on society's emergency preparedness. Even in times of peace, society may face severe pressures. For some reason, the number of disasters in the world is increasing. Sweden is not as affected as some other countries where, as we can see on television, there are major earthquakes, tsunamis, floods and hurricanes. We should be grateful that we have our place in a quiet part of our continental shelf and that the weather systems we are in are not among the worst. However, we also have disasters, and we need our emergency preparedness. Fortunately, we have well-trained and well-equipped high-quality blue light organisations. Our society is well organised for a long time. One problem in itself is that our bluelight organisations are tax-funded and that the distribution of our limited tax resources is always a struggle. There are other authorities that also need resources and can strongly justify this. In any case, I think that the blue light organisations should have a larger share. A higher level of emergency preparedness makes us all safer. A higher level of emergency preparedness gives back resources dynamically. Take only forest fires; can we stop these early saved resources. A well-functioning society maintains a high level of emergency preparedness. A society in crisis must customs on emergency preparedness. If we can get Sweden in order, it is not impossible that we can climb back to the place we previously had in the OECD's prosperity league, and then we could afford to invest in a really high level of crisis preparedness. However, as I have indicated, there are reasons to invest in high emergency preparedness already now. In addition to the allocation of resources to society's emergency preparedness, there are many detailed decisions that can optimise the area of society. For example, SOS Alarm should again become an authority. It should be protected and disseminated and co-located with other authorities, where a common situational picture becomes important. We know today that our authorities have different situations in the event of disasters. It is serious and should be addressed. It is not only in times of war that our major power plants, mainly nuclear power and hydropower, are threatened – even in peacetime, there are lunatics who threaten the works, including by penetrating their areas. A better shell protection for our power plants is therefore important. It may require more secure terrain around and more security systems. In the event of one or more large power plants still falling out, special reserve power plants dedicated to important areas may be an important preparedness. Sweden has experienced several serious landslides. A river threatened by newslides is the Göta River, where quick clay along the river makes the situation very treacherous. This threatens both the fresh water of 700 000 people and the shipping of the river. The cost of landslide securing Göta River should be taken in the near future, otherwise there is a great risk that the cost will be many times higher. Sweden's low level of self-sufficiency in food is a threat to our population not only in war but also in severe disasters in our surrounding world. Sweden should reclaim larger cultivation areas throughout the country. We need emergency food stocks in all municipalities, and we need a strategy to select adapted food production during times of crisis. We also need a greater awareness of the Swedish people to shop locally. Finally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: the allocation of resources is important for the authorities responsible for emergency preparedness. Good laws and governance are important, but all of us Swedish citizens are also important. We all have a private alert, and it's usually voluntary. We're going to warn the authorities and each other of threats. We will also assist and help each other when crises arise.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-704	Mr. Old President! Thank you for reflecting on these important issues, Mr Jansson. There are many aspects to the report on emergency preparedness work in Sweden that is being discussed today. The starting point is that we have many challenges and that, in fact, there are an enormous number of measures to be taken in both the short and the longer term. I think that these are important aspects, Mr Jansson, about both forest fires and being able to prevent on time, and that there should be a healthy and sensible food supply. I would like to hear the target of the Swedish democrats, in more detail, in one area. Can Mikael Jansson concretize what a really high level of emergency preparedness is in practice? This applies both when it comes to resources and when it comes to the whole-country perspective, based on the work that is now beginning with total defence planning and all the different bodies to be involved. In fact, I heard just that target picture mentioned. What does it mean to have a really high level of emergency preparedness? That is the first question. The second question I ask is based on the speech of another Swedish-democratic Member of Parliament in this debate. He spoke, among other things, on many other issues than those in the report itself, and I heard Mikael Jansson clearly saying back to the subject! .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I think it is an excellent comment after Roger Richtoff's speech earlier, because it was not about today's report in very many parts. Roger Richtoff said among other things that the biggest threat is in Sweden. Now we're going to do a defense preparation. Is it the case, Mikael Jansson, that the biggest threat is in Sweden? Is it not coming from other countries?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-708	Mr. Old President! The questions were targeted and a really high level of emergency preparedness. It can be a bit difficult for me to stand here and precede, for example, the Defence Committee, which works with civil defence, which is a bit different side of crisis preparedness. Finland has emergency preparedness for its population for several months. The previous defence committee's report discussed that civil defence should last five to ten days, but we think that this is too little. Civil defence must last for several months, and the same must be true of emergency preparedness. To survive must be to cope with the needs of the population. When the current defence committee prepares a report on how civil defence should behave, perhaps we parties can discuss a little more precisely what this target picture should look like. However, we are very ambitious in this area. I heard you asked another question, Daniel Bäckström, but I lost it, so we'll have to take it in the next round.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-712	Mr. Old President! When you want to make the speech so clear as a representative of the best party and look back at various shortcomings, it is appropriate to take the opportunity to tell the Riksdag and the Swedish people as clearly as possible, who follow the debate, what the Swedish Democrats' goal of a really high level of crisis preparedness in practice means. Today's topic is emergency preparedness work. This subject has lots of sub-headings, and then it is extremely important to be able to quantify, as the Swedish Democrats do in other contexts when we discuss budget work. These questions are related, so it cannot be a challenge for Mikael Jansson to answer the question in an easy way. I did not feel that he gave any concrete answer to the question. For rehearsal: The second question I put to Mikael Jansson was based on his colleague Roger Richtoff's statement earlier in the chamber debate that the biggest threat is in Sweden. Roger Richtoff also said that people should apologize and that people should resign. I would like to have an answer to this as well – can Mikael Jansson name those of us who are resigning and those who are going to apologize? After all, it is the Swedish Democrats who bring these greetings to today's debate. The biggest threat is therefore in Sweden. Now we have total defence planning, which contains a huge number of important aspects. Then my question is: Is it not the threat from other countries that is the greatest threat when it comes to Swedish emergency preparedness?
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-717	Mr. Old President! I think Mr Bäckström is asking very difficult questions, but I will try to answer them. In my previous reply, I was convinced that we cannot be the only party that has a precise, detailed target for how emergency preparedness should be – it is not possible. I go back to the work and report of the former defence committee, where it was discussed that civil defence should last five to ten days. We believe that this is unreasonable. The five-month Finnish model is more reasonable, because military defence cannot survive without civil defence – one day, they say. Then it is not possible to have a civil defence that can only last five to ten days, because then we also have no military defence and no total defence. With regard to a high level of emergency preparedness, we think that the five months that Finland is talking about can be a good goal. However, this is not detailed. I would remind you that we spent money on civil defence in our last budget from last autumn, which we think is a good start. In the work of the former defense committee, the other parties said that the new civil defence would be full of finesse. It would be a brand new model, very cheap and efficient. I have been asking for that sketch for years now, but nothing has come. Now it turns out that all we can do is go back to the old civilian defence, bring it up again and then streamline from there—that's the only possibility. Daniel Bäckström asked a question about the greatest threat. I know that those of you who have ruled Sweden have not succeeded in integration policy, which means that Sweden is now torn apart. In every city in Sweden there are several residential areas where people feel insecure. You can't go around that. That's how it is. This is, of course, a threat. It is a danger when people are not solidarity and do not feel secure and there is no unity in the country – obviously so.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-725	Mr. Old President! What we are discussing here this afternoon is the emergency preparedness of society. First, for time-winning, allow me to endorse reservation 2, which concerns the emergency preparedness of the county administrative boards. There are 60 different motions, ranging from fire safety to emergency preparedness systems and civil defence. These issues are very important when we have a situation where we can no longer exclude that Sweden can be attacked. We know that a chain is never stronger than the weakest link. We have great challenges in terms of military defence. When it comes to civil defence, the challenges are huge, because it has been down, without planning, for so long. That is why this is such an important issue to discuss. In reservation 2, which I mentioned, we point out that it is required that MSB is given a clear mandate to review the county administrative boards' requirements for exercise activities, in order to create a clearer goal management. The starting point – with the experience of the fire in Västmanland, where there were major deficiencies – is that there must be a completely different coordination in order for it to work better on the next occasion. Unfortunately, it is only a matter of time before something similar can happen. In reservation 6, which concerns the protection of socially important infrastructure, we highlight the opportunity in 2016 when a 332 meter high radio and TV mast fell. There are also other examples – for example, there are IT spies working in Sweden to extinguish Sweden. This is exactly what happened in Ukraine on 18 December. This is too bad on alert. The reservation shows that there is a need for a thorough review of how we can strengthen the protection of socially important infrastructure. This is a hugely important thing, because it is a threat to civil Sweden. We are too poorly equipped, and better protection is needed. Finally, Mr President-in-Office, we are dealing with the issue of self-sufficiency. It has fallen sharply over the last few decades and is currently below 50%. If consideration is given to the fact that food can be produced even when imports of such things as fuel, fertilisers, feed and other inputs are cut off, the Swedish Food Administration's expertise considers that Sweden's supply rate is more or less equal to zero. This is very serious. In a neighbouring country such as Finland, there is a dependency ratio of around 85 per cent. It is time to look at how our neighbours do and ensure that we get quantitative targets for Sweden's self-sufficiency and milestones so that we can be better equipped if we need it. Security of supply is an important part of Sweden's security.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-734	Mr. Old President! I'm gonna try to get through this pretty fast. The Green Party calls us racists. We know that from before. To be kind, one can say that what the honourable Member thinks personally is of such little importance that it almost does not concern me at all. You live with your anti-Sweden attitude that you work for continuously, Anders Schröder. You have no responsibility whatsoever for the decisions and promises you make. An election promise was that you would close Bromma airport, but of course there was none. Bypass Stockholm, you would stop. 170 million costs that delay. It's almost a little pathetic. For example, school and the 100 days are one. Fridolin, wasn't he arrested in Gaza? He's also been the talker at Charta in 2008, isn't it? It's not a good picture, is it? Mehmet Kaplan and that gang were there too. This is your background. It's pathetic, and I read a little bit about what's happened in your party before. Now it's foot-buckle time and so on. It's populist. Then who's to be fired? I think that the ministers responsible for putting the country in this position should take their responsibility. You remember the ministers who resigned for a TV license and who had black labor at home? They had to resign. But a minister who does not put Sweden's people and Sweden's welfare first, that is no problem. When it comes to those who were there– you were not there, and this Member was not there, and I also think that you are doing a good job as a center party, Daniel Bäckström, but that is another issue – I think you have to demand responsibility.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-739	Mr. Old President! We heard a colleague of Roger Richtoff's answer recently to the question about what the Swedish Democrats' target looks like when it comes to a really high level of emergency preparedness. Now I would like to give Roger Richtoff the opportunity to comment on today's report for once and present the concrete work of the Swedish democrats on what the emergency preparedness that needs to be developed so well should be within a few years. You tell us how many concrete proposals you have, but describe to us, which in your opinion is in the periphery, what this should look like in practice. It is about civil-military cooperation, civil protection, medicine, health care, secure communications and infrastructure. It is about looking ahead and also being able to develop leadership in this country that promotes security and crisis preparedness. Roger Richtoff speech of about ten minutes this day is certainly about looking back and attacking the then and former decision-makers who made decisions based on the circumstances of the past. It is always easiest to move away from the subject and describe the past, but it is much harder to be a responsible leader of this country, Roger Richtoff, and present what your politics should look like in the future. This is about what I want to ask Roger Richtoff now, so that we can talk about the subject of emergency preparedness.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-742	Mr. Old President! You're welcome to ask these questions, Daniel Bäckström. I shall begin by saying that we divided this debate. You had the opportunity to ask these questions to Mikael Jansson who had prepared these pieces. I chose, as I said, to make a different angle because we believe that conditions within Sweden's borders with fires, shootings and criminal gangs are landing on the issue of emergency preparedness. We have to take altitude for this. We have to do something about this. That is why we chose to divide this into our speeches. Now you have missed the opportunity to talk to the person who has prepared these particular questions. I can do some picks. I'm not going back now, but why do you look in the rearview mirror? There's an experience there. Take it with yourself, for then you may not next time you come into government begin to dismantle the countryside as you did during the alliance period. Did it get better for the farmers? No. You abdicated from the countryside. If you don't remember, there's a risk that you'll do the same thing again. If you do not take your experience with you by looking at the rear-view mirror, it may be that you will shut down the defence again if things are calm in Russia. After all, you agreed to destroy the systems completely. Now we're going to rebuild this. Look in the rearview mirror and think: What did I learn? What experience do I take with me? That's a tip. What do we want to do? I can mention a few brief points. We want fuel storage. Fuels are one of the best and most important things to roll off and continue with sustainable civil defence and military defence, and fuels must be stored. Food production in Sweden will increase. We have a policy for that. Just read. It is an excellent policy for this. We are also investing in infrastructure. Renovation of Inlandsbanan and more we also ensure. We want the rescue schools back in place so that we can train conscripts, rescue services, fire brigades and so on.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-747	Mr. Old President! In terms of experience, I myself have been chairman of the municipal board of a rural municipality in Värmland and have been chairman of the crisis preparedness committee dealing with extraordinary events in peacetime. I have taken note of the new legislation that came just to develop Swedish emergency preparedness work. I do not know what Roger Richtoff's experience looks like when it comes to crisis management work on the municipal arena, but I would have liked to hear far more concrete examples of what Roger Richtoff is running for policy in the Defence Committee in relation to this work in the future. I fully understand the division of tasks. After all, it is also a question of our own limitations to be able to explain our policies. But now take the opportunity to concretely describe for two minutes how the Swedish Democrats actually intend to set up work on crisis preparedness. To describe our previous government policy as a failure will have to stand for the Swedish Democrats. I see concrete examples of how rural areas develop as a result of long-term structural efforts, not least in fibre projects that boost rural areas and in liberalisations that provide entrepreneurship in areas that so badly need it. What we are now seeing is that we need to take the next step to create resilience in Sweden and connect the ideas about renewable fuels, energy production and future solutions for this country so that we create less vulnerability. It is a policy of the future. I see the dependence on Russia as a huge problem today, but I do not think that Roger Richtoff shares that view because he describes Russia so narrowly and does not even mention the name Russia in his speech. It is also, of course, a matter of food. Then, based on your policy, tell us how food production will increase in the near future. Where is the goal, Roger Richtoff, and what steps will you contribute to together in this work in your party? I feel, on the basis of the answers presented, that you do not know each other how to explain politics.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-754	Mr. Old President! I have two minutes to explain the policy of the Swedish democrats in the civil field and the developments ahead. I understand that the centre party does not understand that it is far too short a time. It's a little tricky. But I'll try to describe what we want to do. We want to strengthen it locally produced. How do we do that? It'll take a while to develop it. But that is done through procurement. In the specifications, special weightings are made so that the price of procurements does not have the significance that it has had in many centre-party municipalities and others as well. That's where you set the price at 95%. Then truck transport from Denmark goes, and it is possible to buy at half the price in the shops. It's a concrete thing. In the case of schools, there may be a municipal border between two schools located 300 metres away from each other. One school is under threat of closure. In your Sweden, the students at that school will be bused for two and a half miles, Daniel Bäckström. You didn't do anything about that. We'll change that. We have a policy for that. We have a policy of localisation, of this and of storing fuel. We lower the fuel tax for farmers, by 3 or 4 SEK per litre. It's good for the countryside. We distribute and reduce employers' contributions for the companies that remain in rural areas. These are concrete proposals, which I hope the Center Party can agree to and say yes to. It highlights, among other things, rural areas and the possibilities of total defence. It is also about seed, food management, self-production and growing more land in Sweden. We will increase self-sufficiency so that we can reach up to 70, 80 maybe 85 percent. It'll take time. What is being demolished takes time to build up. Look in the rear-view mirror! Bring the experience, and move forward! Please come back and we will discuss and immerse ourselves in our excellent policy.
i-6c21f58a01b48ec8-770	Sweden's EU work in the light of the UK's withdrawal
