i-a3afb22800180967-3	Mr President, I would like to Roger Hedlund has asked me whether I intend to review the possibilities of reducing radon levels in housing on the basis of the WHO's manual. I would like to begin by emphasising that the presence of radon in housing is an important and urgent issue that the government takes very seriously. Radon is estimated to lead to about 500 cancer cases per year in Sweden. The Boverket has also set a limit value for radon of 200 becquerel per cubic metre in new buildings. In its general guidelines, the Public Health Authority also sets a target value of 200 becquerel per cubic metre, which refers to housing, schools, preschools and other public premises. In 2011, Boverket carried out an impact assessment of what a reduced limit value would entail in Sweden in order to reduce the number of cancer cases and the costs involved. The analysis showed that approximately 1.3 million residents would be affected and that the cost of such a radon removal would be 14 – 19 billion SEK. The Boverket's assessment was that the costs would be very high if all the homes concerned were to be cleaned up, in view of the relatively low number of cancer cases that could be prevented. When it comes to new construction, Boverket estimated that nearly 5,000 people will live in newly built dwellings with a radon content higher than 100 becquerel per cubic metre each year. A reduction in the limit value for newly built dwellings was estimated to lead to a reduction in the number of lung cancer cases by 0.15 cases. In view of the high risk of radon, efforts have been made to reduce residential exposure. This has been expressed, inter alia, through the targeted contribution to radon removal that could be applied for until 31 December 2014 and through the energy declarations that include data on radon occurrence in the property. The energy declaration thus becomes an important instrument to make the risk visible with radon and can alert the buyer of a building to whether a measurement has been made and what the measurement showed in the cases where it has been carried out. For residents in small houses there is also the possibility to receive a tax reduction for labour costs for radon removal within the framework of the ROT deduction. However, as I see it, further efforts are needed to reduce the number of lung cancer cases in the future and to ensure that radon levels in Swedish housing are reduced and fall below existing limit values. The Government therefore proposes in the 2018 budget bill that a grant for radon restoration be reinstated. This will be about SEK 34 million for 2018. The grant is then proposed to be increased according to the budget proposal to 72 million in 2019 and subsequent years. Precisely how the support should be designed is not yet quite clear, but we have to wait for decisions in the Riksdag. Then work will develop and implement the detailed rules. The aim is to restore such support and ensure that it is widely informed. The reason why the previous aid was removed was actually that it was not used very much. But when you researched the background, it came out that it was about the information and knowledge about the support our poor.
i-MRMxy8ACMXc4xa6grvHY67	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am pleased that the government, after I put my interpellation in June, has developed measures to reduce radon levels in more housing in the future. The Swedish Democrats, of course, support the reintroduction of the grant for radon removal together with the ROT deduction that provides better conditions for more tenant owners, homeowners and others to lower radon levels in their homes. It turned out that fewer homeowners chose to radonsanate when the grant was removed in December 2014. It is therefore gratifying that the grant is being reintroduced, as the government is now announcing. I pointed out in my interpellation, and the Government has repeated here, that 500 cancer cases occur every year because of high radon levels in homes. It is good that both the government and the Swedish Democrats see how important the issue is and take it seriously. It is also important that we and the government jointly monitor the forthcoming action plan to reduce radon levels in housing and ensure that the plan works well and that the issue is not released after the radon premium has been reintroduced. I am pleased with the answer I have received. We share the view that the issue is important, and the government is now reintroducing the contribution. I am therefore satisfied with the answer.
i-a3afb22800180967-16	Mr President, I would like to I can say the same. It is good that Roger Hedlund is involved in the matter. It is an important issue that affects many people. It is good that we agree that an increased amount of measures is needed to ensure that the number of lung cancer cases in Sweden is reduced due to radon in the indoor environment.
i-a3afb22800180967-17	Mr President, I would like to Sofia Fölster has asked the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation what initiatives he and the Government intend to take to simplify recruitment and retention of foreign talent for both small and large companies. The question has been handed over to me. Initially, I would like to say that I share Sofia Fölster's view that it is crucial for Swedish competitiveness that companies can recruit employees with the right skills. In order for Swedish companies to be able to provide their skills, it must be possible for Swedish employers to employ workers from third countries, as the skills sought cannot be found in Sweden. Against this background, it is problematic that the processing times for obtaining work permits have become so long. The Government has therefore commissioned the Finnish Immigration Service to develop an action plan for how the handling of both new cases and extensions of work permits can be significantly reduced. The Finnish Immigration Service reported off the mission in February, and the government is now closely following the agency's efforts to implement the action plan. The Action Plan covers actions in several areas, including improved procedures and working methods. Among other things, since 2 May the existing system of certification of employers has been developed so that more employers can make use of the system. If a certified employer submits a complete application at the time of application, the Finnish Immigration Service shall, in accordance with the Agency's action plan, make a decision within 10 working days in the first-time case and within 20 working days in the case of an extension application. The rules on work permits that we have today were developed by the former bourgeois government. In some cases, as Sofia Fölster points out, the rules lead to unreasonable consequences. The government considers that the current situation, where workers are at risk of expulsion due to minor mistakes on the part of the employer, is unacceptable and affects both workers and serious employers who are trying to do the right thing. There must be an opportunity to correct mistakes so that employees have the opportunity to stay and contribute their skills in Swedish companies. Therefore, on 22 June, the Government submitted a proposal on the possibility of failing to withdraw when the employer has, on its own initiative, taken a corrective action. The proposal is based on the proposal put forward in the report Strengthening the position of labour migrants in the labour market. The Government has also gone further and is investigating an opportunity to correct minor, non-intentional mistakes after the Migration Board has pointed out shortcomings in the conditions during the permit periods. The investigator shall submit his proposals by 31 December 2017. All in all, these measures aim to strengthen the supply of skills for Swedish companies and for Sweden as a knowledge nation. This is particularly important in sectors where there is a lack of excellence. A well-functioning regulatory framework is one of many instruments that can contribute to a positive development in this respect.
i-a3afb22800180967-25	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for his reply and also for sharing my view that this is an important issue. I would like to start at this end: this week there has been an alarm about another case in which a person is being expelled on unreasonable grounds. It's about a small start-up company in the tech industry, Clipsource, with ten employees, who, like many small companies, are completely dependent on getting the right skills – each person is extremely important. A person in this company, who has lived in Sweden for four years, has now been informed of expulsion. The reason for this is that the family lives in a two instead of a three. This is therefore the reason why this family, with three small children born and raised in Sweden, should be expelled. Apart from the fact that this is exhausting for the family, it is of course absolutely crucial for the company that the person be allowed to remain. This is one of many companies that are affected by this problem and that might as well have been able to start in or move to another country. These tech startups are very mobile and are affected to a large extent by the rules we have in Sweden. There have been many examples of similar cases in the last three years. Tayyab became a big case, but there have been many more — individuals who have suffered tremendous damage and are expelled because of small trifles that lead to their work permits being pulled away. Their employers have done something less wrong, or the assessment may have been wrong in the end. Throughout this time, ever since these problems were alerted shortly after the government took office, the government has pushed the issue before it. This is extremely unfortunate, I think. There are various problems that should have been addressed today, when the government took office. But that has not been done. Much of the problem we are seeing today is not due to the rules we have but to a judgment from 2015 that changed the interpretation of the rules. Even then, the government should have done something directly to ensure that the expulsions of these key people were stopped. Instead, the government then set up an investigation to make it more difficult for employers and increase the regulatory burden. Only now does it start to look at the real problem, that is, people who live in Sweden, pay taxes and do the right thing and are absolutely crucial to Sweden's competitiveness are actually expelled. Only now do you start talking about this and present a proposal for a small change, which only concerns a few people and is entirely based on the employer himself noticing that you have done something wrong and correcting this. In addition, there will be a new investigation that will make proposals in December, three and a half years after the government took office. I would like to come back to the basic problem. We now have this situation. Families are being expelled all the time. Companies are constantly losing key skills or are not able to recruit the excellence they need. The processing times at the Migration Agency are a major problem. The certification is different. Large companies have a huge priority, and small businesses are left aside. But it is not just about the interpretation of the rules; it is also about the rules themselves. There is a lack of a critical attitude from the government here. Unfortunately, it has often defended the rules that lead to people being expelled on grounds that, for anyone looking at this from the outside, seems absurd: that you earn some crown for little or similar.
i-a3afb22800180967-37	Mr President, I would like to The supply of skills is one of the hottest issues for many employers in the current economic situation. Some of the needs are filled with Swedes and another with foreign citizens who come here. The issue of labour migration and talent recruitment is, I would say, one of Sweden's more critical and important issues in the short term. It is for me that we need more talented people who come to Sweden, partly because we will never be able to get a 100% match, partly because in other countries, both in Europe and elsewhere, there are many really good people. It is good for Sweden and the Swedish business community to be able to attract more of the talented and talented people here – as students or researchers or to work in start-ups, or for that matter invest their own money and start companies in Sweden. I would say that it is now a major political task to think about what else we can do to attract more of these talented people. Just under ten years ago, new rules were introduced for labour migration, which has essentially served Sweden very well. The application of the law has subsequently changed in this area, which, as Sofia Fölster has written in her interpellation, has had quite unhemable consequences for employers and not least for individuals affected by this. It must also be dealt with, and I know that initiatives are now being taken directly in the Social Security Committee to deal with this in Parliament. But we also have a number of other challenges. Processing times are one such thing, Mr President. At times it can go quite quickly and sometimes take quite a long time, but many testify that it is often the case that you do not know. It may be quick, but it may also take a very long time. That in itself creates great uncertainty. If you sit at the start-up company and do not know if the exciting, talented employee can get their work and residence permit in a week, a month or six months, do you dare to sign the employment contract? This is directly bad for Sweden, when at the same time we see that there is increasingly a struggle for talent and talented people in research, entrepreneurship and other areas. This must be stopped in various ways. As the Minister points out, the Finnish Immigration Service has taken a number of measures. I do not think, however, that they are fully responding to the uncertainty that exists today. We have said from the Moderates that residence and work permits should be granted within 30 days, preferably less. We have said that we are prepared to earmark the administrative allocation to the Migration Agency in order to achieve this. If it does not work, we are even prepared to consider moving this to another authority, such as the Swedish Tax Agency, because it is so important that it works. What is the Minister and the Government prepared to take for further action to avoid these differences in treatment? Another thing beyond this is the administration when you actually come to Sweden. We have four magic numbers in the form of social security numbers or coordination numbers. Many, both European and extra-European, bear witness to the fact that it may take time in the administration. On the part of the Moderates, we have proposed the introduction of a kind of one-stop shop, which coordinates authorities, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency and others, so that it can be handled quickly both physically and electronically, so that you get the magic numbers and can get in. Then the employer can deduct the A-tax, and you can make adjustments and so on. Is the government prepared to introduce a one-stop shop in accordance with the Moderates' proposal? Then, later in the discussion, I hope to return to a number of other important issues, for example, that in 2014 we introduced more liberal rules for students and researchers. I think it is time to follow up on this and see if it is time to take more steps to get more of them to stay in Sweden. I think we should have a discussion about those who come here to invest money and start a business. I hope we can talk about this later in the debate.
i-a3afb22800180967-47	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your important contributions! I think we agree in every way that the issue of the recruitment of international competence and work permits for third-country workers is both a matter of economic policy and a question of the Migration Agency's review. I will not comment on individual cases, individual companies or individual expulsions. My mission is to report the work that the government is doing to achieve success as far as possible so that we can attract skills and be competitive in an international market for our companies. The government presented a proposal before the summer, but it was based on a proposal that had been submitted by an investigation in a report right at the beginning of the parliamentary term. It was made to highlight and remedy the shortcomings that existed at the time in the legislation. It was an opportunity to refrain from withdrawing a residence permit when the employer himself has remedied shortcomings. Simply put, the task was to give the employer an opportunity to correct shortcomings themselves before the application goes forward for decision. I think there are many of us who have found it unreasonable that any small mistake in this way has led to the expulsion of workers. The government has also, as a next step, very quickly opened up for employers to be able to correct shortcomings even after the Migration Agency has pointed them out. That is why an investigation was also set up which is due to submit its report at the end of the year. Just as was suggested here by Lars Hjälmered, a motion by the bourgeois parties has been brought to my attention. Just now, I have also been informed that it has been taken into consideration in the Social Security Committee. The ambition to move forward faster is positive, and this can mean faster preparation. But it must be done in two steps by the government. There must be a complete documentation to support the proposal that we want to get to. I hope this investigation will answer that question. Therefore, there is preparation for an additional supplementary proposal. Now we have to wait for the corresponding preparation in Parliament to see if we can achieve success on the subject. I note that there is broad consensus in Parliament and look forward to a positive change in the regulatory framework, so that we can achieve a more satisfactory system for both employers and employees.
i-a3afb22800180967-55	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for that answer. But I want to come back to the fact that I don't think this is enough. I still have no answers to any of the questions I have put to the Minister. I was going to take those questions again and hope that I can get a clear answer. Although our follow-up motion is an improvement in the bill that came, it is only a small step in the right direction. There are many other problems, including the case I took as an example. It exemplifies how many families have what has been expelled or is heading for expulsion despite paying taxes and doing the right thing. One issue concerns overall assessment. We have long been proposing that the Migration Agency should be able to make its own overall assessment where there are some very small deviations from the rules. It may be that you have earned a few crowns too little or, as I told you, that you live in a two instead of a three. Or maybe you've been a little late with insurance or something. The Finnish Immigration Service should then be able to make an overall assessment of the individual case. This has not been followed up by the government, and it has not been proposed. Another issue is the rules themselves. Many times the limits that have been set are completely unreasonable. How can there be a limit that means that it is not okay for a family to live in a two? How can there be a limit that says that it is not enough to earn a certain number of dollars a year but also per month? There are people who testify that you end up below the limit of what's okay if you take a vacation. We have rules of this kind that are extremely bureaucratic and complicated. They put both companies and individuals in a situation that is totally unreasonable. Of course you should be able to make a living, and of course there must be some kind of basic requirement. However, the rules we have today are bureaucratic and complicated and put people and businesses in the throes. The third question relates to procedural times, which I also raised in the interpellation. The Minister reports a dialogue with the Finnish Immigration Service. We have made much clearer proposals. Will the government impose a limit on how long it will take to deal with these cases? I would like a clear answer to that. The last question, which may be a little more forward-looking, concerns the minister I asked the interpellation to, namely Mikael Damberg. He has been one of the people in the Social Democrats who has pushed that the rules should not be relaxed for people who are doing the right thing but actually tightened up. For example, Mikael Damberg says that it is not reasonable for the law on labour immigration to equate cleaners with engineers. So he runs a line where you should make a difference between different occupational groups and people. These are groups that contribute net to the tax fund and do not cost society a crown. This last question is therefore the most important one. What you do is one thing; what you promise to do is another. I am concerned about rhetoric about going back to a system that politically determines which occupational groups receive labour immigrants and which do not. Is this a view shared by the Minister, and is this something on which the government will go to elections?
i-a3afb22800180967-63	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to refer to this with the principles. I would just like to stress how important it is for Sweden that we continue to further develop these rules and see how we can attract talented people in different ways – students, researchers, investors and employees in the public sector and private industry. That's why we from the Moderates with emphasise drive these questions and have done so for many years. There are a few questions I would like to raise. The first is about this with processing times. In my first speech, I mentioned measures that could be taken, such as setting up a kind of service guarantee that, normally, processing would not take more than a certain number of days or weeks. Is the Minister or Government prepared to make such a request to the Migration Agency? Is it prepared to put pressure on this by, for example, earmarking part of the administrative allocation? If this does not work, are you prepared to take responsibility to another authority? The starting point must be to make this work, which it has not done in recent years. I'll come to the other. I mentioned the proposal for a one-stop shop, which means that you can easily be registered with both Försäkringskassan and Skatteverket. Sometimes this can cause some problems for both Europeans and extra-Europeans. Is the government prepared to take any action in this area to make it easier for people to get the four magic figures that make them into the Swedish systems and can get bank accounts, A-taxes, adjustment and the entire ballet? Mr President, I would like to The third point I want to make concerns the issues of the future, if I may call them that. So this is what is beyond today's discussion. Is the government prepared to conduct any discussion about following up the 2014 law on students and researchers and see if there is any reason to take further action to get more talented non-European students and researchers to stay in the country? Is the government prepared to take measures to facilitate and liberalise the rules for those who want to come to Sweden to start a business or invest money?
i-a3afb22800180967-68	Mr President, I would like to I'll start by going to Sofia Fölster. We agree on what you perceive as complicated rules based on the previous legislation of the bourgeois government. These are parts that we are now taking seriously and trying to remedy, partly with the proposal and the proposal that is in place, and partly with the investigation that has been set up. Then there are the other questions, particularly those concerning the length of proceedings that have been put forward by the debaters. This gives me an excellent opportunity to clarify what the processing times are. There is a government commission for the Migration Agency to shorten processing times. You often refer to an average of processing times, and then I understand that it sounds like they are very long. This can be broken down and excluded from the system a number of explanatory groups and, for example, see what the processing time is for workers specifically. It's much shorter. Then you can look at the applications we have that are part of the Migration Agency's certification system where the companies' salaries and conditions are good and where the credibility of the companies is easy to assess – they are handled quickly at the Migration Agency. In fact, we have shortened the length of proceedings there. Within the certification system, they are now down to 17 days. This group includes 80% of all IT specialists' applications. It is a group that we naturally often highlight and which we think is important for us to have a competitive business. In cases where there are deficiencies in wages and other conditions – or where they are even unclear – it takes considerably longer. Then you can come up for months in processing times. Of course, I have a high ambition that, with the mission we have given, we should also shorten it. However, I would like to say that there are reasons why it should take longer to deal with certain cases. There is reason to have a high level of ambition in terms of good conditions and wages. There are a number of moderate proposals. That debate is important, and it is interesting. This gives me reason to point out that the government is working on a range of measures to strengthen a competitive business sector. It is about ensuring that we have a well-functioning regulatory framework and a policy that supports and stimulates innovation, research and development. This is done not least through our Minister for Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg. For the authority responsible for the work permits, we have the mission to be more effective and to continue with development work. In addition, the government has taken a number of measures for foreign skills in Sweden, and we are investing widely in improving access to the right skills and improving matching. I would like to mention the extensive investment in ten thousand training places in the Kfskapsläftet, validation of the skills and experience of newcomers, complementary training courses and the dialogue that the Prime Minister has started with the social partners and industries to conduct in-depth discussions on skills provision in general and on the training initiatives that are now to be developed. It is important to see a whole in this and see that there are a variety of policies to strengthen Sweden's competitive forces in business.
i-a3afb22800180967-75	Mr President, I would like to I would like to come back to what I started with, that is to say that this issue is one of the issues that may affect people and families most strongly. If we do not deal with this issue properly, people will continue to be expelled. Families will continue to be torn up. Children who were born here and have gone to kindergarten here will be sent from here. So that is the reality we are facing. This is so serious. But it is also the case that our competitiveness is crucial for us to have a good start-up climate. A good start-up climate for startups and small businesses requires good rules for labour migration. Startups and small businesses are therefore not included in the companies certified by the Finnish Immigration Service. It's important to remember. There is an enormous amount that needs to be done, much more than the government has initiated. Global assessments are needed at the Finnish Immigration Service. There is a need for shorter processing times. Amended rules are needed in particular. Here I do not believe that the investigation that exists is sufficient, although I hope so. I hope that this debate has been able to give some input. However, I am extremely concerned about, among other things, the points made by Mikael Damberg, along with other representatives of the Social Democracy. You want to go back to a system that was much more sharp and where it was harder for people to come here than before the previous bourgeois government came into being. You want to go back to a system where you make a difference between different occupational groups, where you make a difference between different people and where you should politically decide that certain occupational groups should not be allowed to come here. It is a huge restriction on the labour immigration rules we have now. That is a huge change compared to the rules we have today. That question has not been answered by the Minister. I'm worried about that. I would like to say that I hope that the government will continue to move in a direction that facilitates people's lives and does not restrict them even further.
i-a3afb22800180967-79	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Sofia Fölster but also Lars Helmered for the debate. I believe that it is important and sees great value in that we in Sweden together create good conditions to recruit precisely international competence. For my part, and for the government's part, I am pleased to note this: Although there are issues that we are discussing based on different party opinions, there is a common understanding in the Swedish Parliament of how important it is for our country and for our business community that we have the best conditions to recruit employees with the right competence from third countries. Not infrequently, it is actually excellence, as I have also heard in your speeches. I also see that there are good conditions for us to agree on what changes are required, and we will have a preparation here in Parliament this autumn. I have been clear in my speech – and this is in line with Sofia Fölster's speech – that the government has given a mission. The authority responsible for the work permits has a mandate to continue the development work, develop certification, increase efficiency and shorten processing times. This means that in this way we simplify and facilitate our rules for the recruitment of international competence. It should then be said that this is combined with a review relating to residence permits and so on. It is important that it continues professionally. Finally, I would like to emphasise the value of the regulatory framework being balanced. It is about achieving swift management, but also about the value of having good conditions in the labour market and counteracting abuse in the labour market. With that, Mr President, I thank you for a constructive debate and hope that in the further work we will improve the rules on labour immigration.
i-CxD5ZrytzM2g7PqCVATRmn	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg, Minister Per Bolund, Minister Ardalan Shekarabi and Minister Peter Eriksson. Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties.
i-a3afb22800180967-84	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Eriksson. A week ago we could read that the government is postponing the introduction of a new postal law. It is, of course, unfortunate at a time when many people feel that the mail is not always to be trusted, that the letters do not arrive in time and that the letters sometimes do not arrive at all. The government needs to solve serious quality problems. Then, of course, the government will have to control the company better. It is also about giving Posten the right conditions and tools in a world that is becoming increasingly digital and where letter volumes are decreasing. An updated regulatory framework is therefore needed to ensure a good and reliable postal service throughout the country. When will we be able to see a new postal law presented by the government? When will people once again be able to trust that the mail will arrive?
i-a3afb22800180967-87	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for Jessica Rosencrantz's question. I am pleased that we from the opposition are told that a new postal law is important. It is quite clear that changes are needed to enable us to have more long-term opportunities to operate a good postal service throughout the country. That is not the case now. The deficiencies are too great, and that has been the case for quite a long time. However, I will propose a change to the postal law and expect it to come shortly.
i-a3afb22800180967-89	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Both opposition and government share the concerns and see that something needs to be done, of course. From what the Government has mentioned in the media, I understand that there are some talks going on with the Danish side. Nevertheless, the question is how long can we wait in Sweden to change our own system. We do not want to go the same way as Denmark has done with further major quality problems. Can the Government say anything about the time aspect of the new postal law?
i-a3afb22800180967-91	Mr President, I would like to This is about different things. The first concerns the ongoing negotiations on Postnord as well as relations between the Swedish and Danish parts. We know that digitalisation has accelerated very quickly in Denmark, which has given completely different conditions to conduct postal activities. This in turn has affected the company Postnord. We have entered into negotiations on how the company can continue in the future. I'm trying to keep this issue separate from how we're going to organize Posten in Sweden. As far as this is concerned, we are currently preparing a change, and it is coming as quickly as possible.
i-a3afb22800180967-94	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is currently developing strongly. We can see this with our own eyes if we look at the large number of cranes that rise in cities and towns around the country. It's a classic picture of growth. The strong development is also confirmed by the facts from the Bankruptcy Institute's latest report. For the sixth month in a row, growth is stronger than normal. Above all, the upswing of the manufacturing industry stands out. Views of the situation are bright on a broad front, and the sub-sectors of industry report a strong or very strong situation. Households also look to the future in a bright light. In addition to the Konjunkturinstitutet, there are also other recent measurements showing the same situation. The Swedish Agency for Growth's report The terms and conditions of the companies 2017 show that seven out of ten companies have ambitions to grow. At the same time, in the midst of all this hopeful and strong, the question arises: What does the Minister see as the major challenges ahead in order to build on the favourable developments that we are currently experiencing?
i-a3afb22800180967-98	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Per-Per-Arne Håkansson, for the question! We are in a very favourable economic situation. There is a strong demand in the economy of small companies and gratifying also among the strong Swedish manufacturing industry. In fact, the Swedish manufacturing industry has not been this optimistic since the 90s. There have not been such large investments since the financial crisis. This affects jobs and development throughout the country, and it brings Sweden's economy forward. Looking at the analyses that have come, both the Company Conditions and Reality 2017 and the Small Entrepreneur Barometer, it is clear that the biggest barrier to growth for companies in Sweden today is the supply of skills. It is therefore gratifying that the government is making the move there with an enormous boost in knowledge. We invest in vocational training, vocational training, university of applied sciences and also other programmes that are suitable for business needs. This is the largest and smartest growth policy we can have right now.
i-a3afb22800180967-101	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. The link between growth, education and jobs is an important part of this. Knowledge and quality are our strongest weapon to compete with the outside world. Collaboration is highlighted as an important success factor in reaching out with the smart industry, automation and digitalisation. According to the Minister, is there a need for further efforts to build on this so that Swedish industry develops in this area?
i-a3afb22800180967-104	Mr President, I would like to First of all, there is a need for more cooperation in the field of education. The education system and the business community have been too far apart. That's why we invest so much in polytechnics. These training courses are very integrated into the business community. We also want to see more of the professional adult education so that adult education is brought closer to the labour market. It is also about collaboration on digitalisation. We have set ourselves the goal of reaching a thousand small and medium-sized enterprises with help to switch to digitalisation. In the budget now presented by the government, we are moving forward with an automation programme to help small and medium-sized enterprises to be able to invest more in robots and automation and thus drive development further.
i-a3afb22800180967-107	Mr President, I would like to In the UN General Assembly, Donald Trumps's speech echoed empty when it comes to the climate, despite the natural disasters that follow in the wake of climate change in his particular United States. In these times when one of the world's most powerful countries, which had previously actually stepped in to meet the climate challenge, fails, it is more important than ever that a country like Sweden is an example. The latest budget presented a series of efforts on climate and protection of a valuable nature. Another area that is just as important to work with is consumption. This applies not only to fossil fuels in the cars we use, but also to goods. How do we turn to more sustainable consumption? I would like to hear what measures Per Bolund is taking to achieve this.
i-a3afb22800180967-109	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a very important question! When we measure emissions that occur only within our own country, we see that we have managed to reduce them through an active climate and environmental policy for a long time. However, we can see that consumption-related emissions have increased over time. This applies to emissions due to Swedish consumption, also in other countries. This development must, of course, be reversed in order to achieve the Paris objective and the global sustainability objectives. The government has therefore started work on a strategy for sustainable consumption. We have followed it up with active measures, for example by reducing VAT on repairs. We are therefore introducing a REP deduction in homes when you repair your fridge, freezer or stove instead of throwing away and buying new ones. We continue to encourage more sustainable consumption, such as the experience industry. We are making a major cultural effort, which is indeed a form of sustainable consumption. Step by step, the government takes measures to strengthen more sustainable consumption. They are important for creating a sustainable world in the future.
i-a3afb22800180967-113	Mr President, I would like to There is another area that is important. The government raised the issue of repairs. But it's also about products to last longer from the beginning, not just to be torn and thrown away. Has the government taken action or will the government take action in Sweden and in EU cooperation, where some of this is regulated, to push for more sustainable products?
i-a3afb22800180967-115	Mr President, I would like to This too is an important area in order to achieve more sustainable consumption. Action is needed both internationally and in Sweden. In the EU, Sweden is pushing for a revision of the Ecodesign Directive to design products so that they last over time, are energy efficient and environmentally smart. In Sweden, we are trying to encourage companies to find new business models that build on increased sustainability as an advantage, such as car pools instead of owning their own car or leasing out products. It provides incentives to produce products that last over time.
i-a3afb22800180967-117	Mr President, I would like to This will be a general political question for Minister Damberg. There is currently a large generation of young people growing up in community care, often in housing. Martin in the gallery. He came here on his own three years ago and has been with me in Parliament for a week. He first lived in a living room, but now he lives in a family home. Martin himself dreams of eventually becoming a father – a beautiful father like the one he has met in his family home. What he wants is for his friends who live in accommodations also to have that opportunity. We know that the young people who grow up in housing do not have the same opportunities and do not get the same chances as those who live in family homes. Family home children are simply doing better than those in accommodation. It's all about everything from Fridaysmys to getting support in studying. Martin and my question is simply: What is the government doing to enable more young people to grow up in a family instead of living in a home?
i-a3afb22800180967-121	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. One of the major challenges we have in Sweden is to really take advantage of everyone, not least children and young people, who have come to our country in recent years and to give them the best conditions to quickly enter society. Now we know it's a strained situation. Not everyone will fit in families, but some will end up in special accommodations or different forms of adapted accommodation. It is important that there are good conditions there too, that the school works, that there is enough support, that the social services can put in support if it is difficult. Then there is the association life. We should not underestimate the non-profit sector, the sports movement or the cultural sector, in order to make friends and feel support. We are facing a societal challenge together. This government has decided to provide not least municipalities and county councils with the best possible conditions to cope with the situation. This is why we provide a lot of resources so that municipalities, not least those who have taken a big responsibility, should have good resources to work with.
i-a3afb22800180967-125	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. It's hard not to agree that that's exactly how we're supposed to work in civil society. This challenge has existed for a long time. It is not that there has been a lack of accommodation right now, but the challenge has been there for a long time. We from the Liberals and I want to see greater synergy between social services, schools and family homes. Schoolfam is a shining example. What happens to this generation that grows up on housing when they themselves become parents when they eventually have children? Parent is not something you just become. It's something you learn. It is also an issue we need to take care of.
i-a3afb22800180967-129	Mr President, I would like to Here again, I would like to thank you for your commitment. This issue affects many of us very and deeply. Not only can this be a matter for society, but it is also a matter for us as humans. It's about setting up for those who have come to Sweden and doing what we can to give a place, show how it works in Sweden and provide support in the work. Much of this work must be done locally. It can't be routed centrally from above. Local engagement and resources are needed in Sweden's municipalities.
i-a3afb22800180967-131	Mr President, I would like to Households' mortgage debt has grown strongly. One contributing factor is the interest rebates on mortgages, which have driven house prices and acted indirectly as a subsidy to banks. At the same time, interest rebates have historically contributed to households without large capital assets being able to buy and own a dwelling. The latter relationship may no longer be true when, as a result of apparent house prices and indebtedness, public authorities have imposed restrictions on households in the form of amortisation requirements and capital requirements. As a result, more and more households with stable incomes cannot enter the owned housing market, but are referred over time to significantly more expensive housing rights. The Christian Democrats' conclusion of this is that it is time to start a slow reduction in interest rebates, provided that the government's increased revenue goes back to the household sector, while at the same time implementing reforms to enable more people with stable incomes to own their housing. The government has had a bit of a hard time presenting an overall view of this. I would like to hear Mr Damberg's views on the matter.
i-a3afb22800180967-135	Mr President, I would like to It is no secret that the government has no proposal in the budget for a cut-off in interest rates. Anyone can read to that. On the other hand, I think everyone agrees that no one can say that this cannot be done either. We follow the situation over time with great care. Not least Per Bolund, who is responsible for some of these issues in the government, is following the issue of stability with great seriousness. We do not exclude any measures to safeguard the stability of the Swedish system, and not least ensure that prices do not run away. Housing has not been cheap in recent years, and the families that have signed up for large loans have done so under certain conditions. Changes in the system can have a major impact on price formation or on individual households' finances. It is important for us in the government to take these issues seriously too.
i-GGnLQDi3zfHyrmhp4pJW4b	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The reason I put the question to the Government is that it sounds a little different from different government representatives – from the Minister for Housing, from the Minister for Finance and from the Minister for Finance. They have been asked today because the IMF has pointed this out. The question is described as purely hypothetical, and it is said that there is no process at all. I'm glad the Prime Minister opens up a little bit for a de-escalation. Is the government prepared to enter into a broad agreement that protects households' finances while at the same time starting to de-escalate?
i-a3afb22800180967-141	Mr President, I would like to I can rejoice with the opposition that the government has indeed put forward a proposal on the table of Parliament that protects households. We are cutting the tax considerably for the country's pensioners, and we are making a targeted effort on the poorest pensioners. We'll raise the children's allowance and the student allowance. When the Swedish economy is doing well, large groups should feel it. There's a deal.
i-a3afb22800180967-143	Mr President, I would like to My question is of a general political nature and concerns the independence of the Kurds in Iraq. Despite the first partition agreement signed in Sèvre in 1920 after World War I and despite promises of a country of its own from the United States, France and England, the Kurds have not yet gained their independence. It is today the world's largest ethnic group without a country of its own. On Monday, the Iraqi Kurds, who have been governing a recognised autonomous region of the country since 2005, the KRG region, finally had to vote on their independence. The outcome was not unexpectedly yes. KRG meets all the requirements of the Swedish government to recognise its own country and has in many respects proved to be an example in the Middle East. Does the government intend to acknowledge the will of the Iraqi Kurds when the question of their independence is now on the table?
i-a3afb22800180967-147	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. This is not the first time there have been referendums on such issues in the region. The government supports a united Iraq. The question of the possible independence of the Kurdish region must be resolved through dialogue between Erbil and Baghdad. We support the principle of peoples' right to self-determination. This is an important and fundamental principle for us in international politics. But it does not automatically mean an independent country. It can contain several different solutions, not least different degrees of self-government and independence. There is already a certain amount of such autonomy laid down in the Constitution in Iraq. At the moment, the government's assessment is that what is important is dialogue between the parties, that we ensure that we solve some of the urgent problems that exist in the region and that there is a dialogue where a consensus can be found on the way forward. The worst thing that could happen is that this leads on to more conflict-filled paths.
i-a3afb22800180967-151	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the government is cautious. At the same time, this region has been very stable. As the Minister said, it has long been an autonomous region with a functioning parliament, institutions and democratic elections. They have their own security forces, which have also been an important ally for, among other things, the Swedish operation in Iraq. So there is still a lot to suggest that this recognition can actually stabilise the area further. Is it not time to actually acknowledge the success of the Iraqi Kurds?
i-a3afb22800180967-153	Mr President, I would like to There is no declaration of independence. Nor is there anything to admit today. We have had a referendum that clearly shows that those who took part in the referendum want to go this way. It is an important political signal that is being discussed and known throughout the world and which creates discussion but also some concern elsewhere in the region. The Swedish Government will support not least the UN's dialogue efforts in the region to create long-term and sustainable development, where we will find a dialogue solution to the issue.
i-a3afb22800180967-157	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson. I was in Örebro yesterday, and a girl came up to me and asked me a very good question that I was going to pass on to the Minister for Housing. She said that there are many parties in Parliament who talk about the migration chains that are to be created when a person moves to another dwelling and it becomes a kind of chain of it. She said that now there are a lot of people who do not sell their home when they move but instead keep it and rent it out. Some even buy several homes to rent them out. The bourgeois government changed the legislation in such a way that it is now possible to charge very high market rents for subletting. We also see that system in other European countries. Keeping one's dwelling and renting it pushes up house prices in a way that creates even more housing shortages.
i-a3afb22800180967-161	Mr President, I would like to Basically, we in Sweden have not had the experience that it is a high degree of speculation on housing. It is relatively rare in Sweden that you still have your previous dwelling when you move and instead rent it out. I have heard that there is such a tendency in some places today and that it is increasing, but we have no real idea of how big the problem is. When the situation may turn later on with higher interest rates and such things, I can imagine that there is a risk or a likely development that it will decrease again, so I am not sure that we need to take any action today. What you would like to come to is a situation where we get better knowledge of whether this is a problem today or not.
i-a3afb22800180967-164	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I still feel that the Minister of Housing has been thinking about these issues. I get this question quite often – more often and more often, actually. I feel that there are many who see in their vicinity that there is such a problem and that the market rental models for residential units have made it even more profitable to do this. Is there any thought on the part of the Minister for Housing to change that legislation so that it is not possible to charge these high market rents for dwellings?
i-a3afb22800180967-167	Mr President, I would like to Today we have no such proposals. If this is true, if we believe that it may pull this way, it may well be due to several things. This may be due to the fact that it is possible today to take out higher rents in the second place. It may also be due to successive increases. During the previous government, the capital gains tax was also increased, which means that it can be perceived as not making much money selling the dwelling. I do not think it is certain that this development will continue.
i-a3afb22800180967-170	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Shekarabi. In March 2015, the Swedish Parliament decided that the authorisation requirement for LAN games should be removed or toll-free. At the same time, it called on the government to speed up this work. The government returned in a letter last March that a bill was to be expected in the autumn. This was repeated in a letter submitted in March this year. But despite two notifications, no such proposal was included in the bill list published the other week.
i-GgXvaMha1iBni5FQsV6Yae	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Isabella Hökmark, for the question! Right now, we are in an intensive phase in the process of reforming the entire Swedish gaming legislation. In this process, we have in parallel focused on LAN games. There is a need for change, and we will come back with details of how proposals will be presented. But there is no doubt that the government is focusing on reforming legislation concerning gambling in Sweden. The need is great. We have broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament. But these are demanding processes, and the focus right now is on simply delivering proposals to Parliament for a game reform.
i-a3afb22800180967-174	Mr President, I would like to Now these companies have been paying a fee since 2013. It is a fairly high fee – a large online company pays 70 000 a year. Of course, it affects those who play: young and children. Last spring I understood that the Minister was a little more in favour of breaking this issue out and abolishing this fee before there is a bill. I guess it's gonna be another year before there's a bill. Can you imagine that?
i-a3afb22800180967-176	Mr President, I would like to I don't want to precede preparation in the Government Office. For our part, it is important that we get legislation in place as soon as possible, which means that we introduce a licensing system in the Swedish gaming market. In this context, it is important that we consider and address issues related to gambling policy. Then we will also focus on LAN games. Nordea's move and Sweden's financial attractiveness
i-a3afb22800180967-178	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Financial Markets Per Bolund. Nordea, the largest bank in the Nordic region and the largest banks in the EU with 10 million private customers, has decided to move its head office to Helsinki from Stockholm. It is not just about bank tax and resolution fees, but above all about wanting to belong to the banking union that exists in the EU. Nordea's decision has apparently reduced confidence in Sweden as an attractive environment and residence for financial institutions. What do the government and the Minister for the Financial Market intend to do about it?
i-a3afb22800180967-181	Mr President, I would like to That conclusion may be a little premature. I would rather say that there is a great deal of confidence in the Swedish financial market. We can also note that Swedish banks and financial institutions are well-being. They are perceived as stable by the outside world. There is strong confidence in them. They also make big profits – this also applies to Nordea, which made more than 40 billion in profits last year. Nordea's choice to move is as Roland Utbolt himself points to having the same rules as its competitors, i.e. the rules that apply within the Banking Union. However, I do not think that the effects of this decision should be exaggerated. Nordea itself has said that it is about perhaps about a hundred positions moving to Helsinki from Stockholm. The Swedish customers are still in Sweden and the bank will continue to conduct substantial operations in Sweden, so let us not exaggerate the effects of this decision.
i-a3afb22800180967-185	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I do not think we should exaggerate either, but there is still such an atmosphere in Stockholm. I think I hear from the Minister for Financial Markets that he has abandoned the vision of Finansplats Stockholm, which is an old vision of a strong financial sector in Stockholm, Europe and the world.
i-a3afb22800180967-188	Mr President, I would like to On this issue too, I think that Roland Utbolt is running well quickly. There is still a very large financial sector in Stockholm. If you look at, for example, the financial development, it is fantastic to see the technological development that is currently taking place here in the capital of Sweden. Stockholm has really become a hub for fintech development in the world. It is clear that the banks also see this. Many banks want to be present here. Nordea will also continue to operate here, because it can be seen that there is a lot of excitement in the Swedish banking world. Stockholm will continue to be an important hub.
i-a3afb22800180967-191	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg. In the countryside of Skåne, Telia has closed several of its telecommunications stations on the grounds that old technology will be replaced by new technology, which in itself is reasonable. However, the problem is that Telia only closes stations that are used by Telia's competitors while those that are only used by Telia may remain.
i-a3afb22800180967-194	Mr President, I would like to If a company in Sweden uses osjysta or illegal practices, there is legislation to apply, and then you should do so. As the responsible minister, I am not going to comment on the actions of individual companies. However, I can say that the government has a very offensive broadband policy. In principle, we have doubled the support for broadband roll-out throughout the country. We have also extended, through Peter Eriksson, the universal service relating to the minimum offer in order to strengthen the guarantee of connectivity for Swedish citizens. This is incredibly important news in connection with the digital transformation we see, where broadband will increasingly become mobile.
i-a3afb22800180967-196	Mr President, I would like to But Telia is state owned, so the state has a certain ethical responsibility. Social democrats usually justify state ownership by companies fulfilling some social function, which today does not apply at all to Telia. So the reasonable thing is to sell Telia, and I wonder if the government has any such plans.
i-a3afb22800180967-197	Mr President, I would like to No, this government has no privatisation plans for Telia, which is a large company that is very important to us and makes major investments not least in broadband and digital expansion in our country. I understand that bourgeois representatives would like to privatise almost everything they can access, but it can be noted that the question of the transformation that Telia is making was also relevant during the time of the bourgeois government. You all had the opportunity to act and give Telia some other assignment. You didn't then, and apparently you didn't now. Instead, you want to sell Telia.
i-a3afb22800180967-200	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Mikael Damberg and concerns school issues. It may not be the minister's main area, but at least I know that you are not entirely at odds with those issues. The Social Democrats had an election promise: within 100 days the number of pupils per class would be reduced by five. It was SVT who conducted a statistical survey together with the Swedish National Agency for Education. Now it has been 1,100 days, and the actual result is that the number of pupils per grade in secondary school has increased from 21,3 to 21, 9. In primary school, which is worse, the number of students has increased from 18.9 to 19.8. The last budget is now fixed, Mr President, and it is perhaps considered that the election promise is betrayed. Perhaps the WEAP – I do not know, Mr President. But somewhere you have to fulfill your electoral promises. In this case it is about class size, something that is incredibly important for the work environment. In front of you is a teacher and a politician, so I wonder on behalf of my colleagues: when can we see this promise fulfilled?
i-a3afb22800180967-204	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. If there is anything I am proud of during this term of office, it is the enormous effort we have made at school. In the budget that has now been presented, we take the entire School Commission's proposal further. Teacher organisations, principals, the profession and even academia have agreed on reforms for the school that both enhance quality and increase equivalence. We present a reform programme worth another SEK 6 billion on top of the investments we have already made at Swedish schools, not least in Swedish teachers. They have now, fortunately, according to the statistics, had the highest wage increases in the Swedish labour market, thanks to the wise decisions of municipal and independent schools but perhaps also to some extent the state subsidies we have given to municipalities and county councils. There are 20 000 more people working in Swedish schools today. We see that the staff density has increased in Swedish schools, despite the fact that there have been many more children. But it is correct that the class sizes have not decreased as much as we had hoped, not least because there have been many more children.
i-a3afb22800180967-207	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the Swedish Democrats also want a little smaller classes, but above all, as a teacher, I believe that the most important thing is who stands in front of the children. Right now we can see that Gustav Fridolin has decided to open 5,000 new places. In view of the fact that this year we re-entered the teacher training that had 0.05 on the university exam, I think this is quite the wrong way to go. I would like to hear Mikael Damberg's thoughts on this, Mr President.
i-a3afb22800180967-209	Mr President, I would like to The most important investment we have made in this term of office is that of teachers. It applies, among other things, to their working environment. We have removed tasks from the teachers so that they can free up time to carry out their teaching profession. We have made a unique investment in municipalities and county councils, which has made it possible for teachers to get the biggest salary boost in the Swedish labour market. The fact that we also see an increasing interest in choosing teacher training is a very positive sign in time. We also try admission tests for teacher training to see if it can work as a better admission system in the future.
i-a3afb22800180967-211	Mr President, I would like to I choose to ask my question to Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson. It has been a long time since Sweden had a government that invested so much in housing policy as our government does. There are many of us who are very happy about that. The government's draft budget contains several different measures, including a number of new ones. One of the new measures is the return of aid to clean up radon homes. It is a support that has existed in the past as well. It came about at a time when the Social Democrats were government, and the number of measures and measurements that were made increased during the time when the support existed. Then they have gradually been phased out. Today there is a need for more measurements. If you are hit by radon in the house, the risk of lung cancer increases, which is a great tragedy for all who suffer from it. I simply wonder how Peter Eriksson views this support and its conditions for achieving results.
i-a3afb22800180967-216	Mr President, I would like to In fact, we have several measures in the budget that focus on the indoor environment and human health in terms of housing. I think this is very important. The issue of radon in housing was discussed more than ten years ago but is still large. It is about perhaps 500 people every year who get lung cancer because of radon in the homes. That is why I am pleased that we, from the government, have now decided to make a new major effort to reduce the risk of people being exposed to this. In the 2018 budget it is about 34 million, and the next year it is 72 million SEK. This means that people will have new, increased support for reconstruction and for the efforts needed to reduce radon levels so that one does not have to fear cancer in the future because of this.
i-a3afb22800180967-218	Mr President, I would like to I am one of those who have worked on these issues and I think it is extremely good that this support should come back. Many organisations in the country also welcome this. A contribution that I still want to make to the government is that this is an issue that is handled by very many different authorities. I believe that there are at least seven different authorities dealing with different parts of the issue. What the industry is asking for is better coordination on the radon issue in the country's authorities. It's a contribution that I still want to make to the Government.
i-a3afb22800180967-220	Mr President, I would like to Precisely what the regulatory framework will look like will be clear when the Parliament has taken a decision on the budget. It will be introduced next year. But I agree with that. An important issue is also that we need to get as good information as possible, so that as many people as possible feel that they have good information and know how to seek and get support to make these investments in their houses.
i-a3afb22800180967-223	Mr President, I would like to Earlier this week, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise presented its annual report on the business environment. At national level, the business environment has never been as bad as it is now. It can be seen that 17 of the top 20 municipalities are run by alliance representatives. In view of this, I would like to ask the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg: Why do companies think that the government is so bad at creating a good business environment?
i-a3afb22800180967-224	Mr President, I would like to It'll be a bit parallel universe, Jörgen Warborn. We have now had a couple of weeks where Sweden's largest business organisations have presented how the companies view their economic situation, the future, their ability to hire and whether they are optimistic or pessimistic. All these surveys show record figures. Nine out of ten companies say they want to expand. Seven out of ten see good conditions for expanding. Four out of ten have declined orders because they do not have enough capacity to deliver– they may not get enough staff. We have growth of 3.1 per cent in Sweden. This is twice as much growth as Germany. Somewhere there may still be some kind of balance in how to describe the business climate in Sweden. More than 200,000 jobs have been created in Sweden since the election. 114,000 of them are in the private sector. Let's discuss the challenges that business has, but don't say that we have never had as bad business development in Sweden as now!
i-a3afb22800180967-227	Mr President, I would like to I share the view that companies are doing well, but that is a boom right now. Companies are doing well despite the actions of the government, not because of it. One of the issues where entrepreneurs are critical of the government is this with profits in welfare, where the government runs a direct anti-business policy. I would like to give the Government an opportunity to correct this, for the sake of diversity, freedom of choice and entrepreneurs. Aren't you going to back off the profit limit in welfare?
i-a3afb22800180967-229	Mr President, I would like to After all, we are in an international market, so we have the same international economy as Germany, the UK, our European neighbours and the Nordic countries, and we still have the highest growth among these countries. In fact, the OECD has ranked Sweden as one of the world's most rapidly growing mature economies. We are clearly doing something right in Sweden, unlike other countries. The biggest growth threat identified by companies is a lack of skills, and that is why the government invests so much in vocational education and training.
i-a3afb22800180967-231	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Eriksson. Our society is being digitized at an ever-faster pace. There are many things that evolve to become less paper-borne and more digital. There are, of course, great benefits and efficiency improvements that can be achieved, but there are also some of the population who feel that they are falling behind. I often meet older people who feel that there is a generation gap and that they feel left behind. I also meet people with disabilities who feel that it is difficult for them to take on digital solutions.
i-a3afb22800180967-234	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Erik Ottoson, for the question! I think you're putting your finger on a very important point. It is absolutely crucial that all over Sweden, regardless of where you live and who you are, you can feel that you are on the modernisation train and that you have the opportunity to participate in the new that is happening, take part in the new services and participate in the new society. You should be able to do it on the same terms whether you live in Dorotea, out in the woods, or in Stockholm. This was why, less than a year ago, we set up a new broadband strategy in which we include everyone, unlike the previous one, where the previous government had excluded 1 million people from the goal of having a good online connection. I am very pleased that we had a unanimous vote in the government that everyone should be involved in these new initiatives. That is why we have also increased investment in both the fixed network and the fibre network, and there will shortly also be new initiatives to improve the coverage of mobile networks.
i-a3afb22800180967-236	Mr President, I would like to An effective policy strategy that has worked for generations is to start talking about something else when you get a question. My question was about how we should make more older people feel included in digitalisation and how those with disabilities should feel that they can also come on the train, but the Government talks about fiber. Maybe that's not really what I asked about. The government gets another chance.
i-a3afb22800180967-237	Mr President, I would like to I've got half a minute. The infrastructure needs to be out. We also need to work to reduce digital divides. That's where we've got a bet. In the budget we have 50 million to implement the digitisation strategy. Some of this we will invest in new efforts so that everyone can have the opportunity to learn more, for example that at all Swedish libraries there will be opportunities to learn more in order to be able to take part of the new services but also that, for example, health care should focus on digitalisation, so that everyone can take part of it online.
i-a3afb22800180967-239	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg. In its budget proposal, the Government proposes a contribution of SEK 115 million to the Swedish Customs Agency for increased control activities, as it says. I welcome the government's message of strengthening the Customs Agency. It is essential for customs to be able to carry out their mission. The problem, however, is that the draft budget is not even sufficient for customs to fulfil its current mandate. New data are added, such as the handling of explosives and the challenges of effective trade, for example in the case of Brexit. Based on today's mission, desired expansions and the structural deficit in the Customs Agency, it can be seen that the Customs Agency is heavily underfunded. This is about just under SEK 200 million in 2018 after the Government's addition. I therefore wonder how the government is reasoning when it markets a strong under-financing of an authority as a major investment in it.
i-a3afb22800180967-242	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Olle Felten, for the question! We are making a strong effort on the whole judicial system. This includes both the Swedish Armed Forces, the Swedish Customs Agency, Säpo and the Swedish Police Authority. They are important authorities and complement each other. They have different tasks, of course, but efforts in one area can also facilitate the work of another law enforcement authority. I hope that the overall investment in security for Sweden will also be marked for customs. Over time, various authorities may have major challenges and financial concerns. However, with the addition made by the Government, we estimate that the Swedish Customs Administration will have better opportunities to perform its tasks than before.
i-a3afb22800180967-244	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This is, of course, about how the government expands an authority's mandate and in practice budgets for a reduction. In this case, an impossible situation is created for the Finnish Customs and for our foreign trade. It makes it easier for criminal activities when customs cannot fulfil their mission. It is not good, and we are very concerned about the government's approach and the effect it will have on the Swedish Customs' ability to carry out its mission.
i-a3afb22800180967-245	Mr President, I would like to The more detailed discussion on this might include the minister responsible, Mr Olle Felten. There are also opportunities, of course, if we use new technologies and work together internationally to tackle the problems that customs is struggling with. So there are opportunities to be even more effective and, not least with the help of digitalisation, to get to grips with activities that are not correct.
i-a3afb22800180967-246	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Shekarabi on the theme of the whole of Sweden will live and faith in the future throughout the country. In the gallery is my praoelev Matilda Fridell. She's from Götene. Götene is a small town in Skaraborg. The impoverishment in the country became increasingly evident during the time of the bourgeois government, when urbanization accelerated at record speed. The Social Democratic-led government has taken several different initiatives to break this. It is positive that the government will relocate authorities to the whole country. This will allow the skills of the whole country to be taken into account. Will any of the 10,000 jobs come to Skaraborg?
i-a3afb22800180967-249	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Monica Green, for the question! The wind has turned. I stood in this Chamber two years ago and answered questions about the Swedish Tax Agency's plans to close down in Lycksele and in eight other cities. Now we are expanding state operations outside Stockholm. We have decided on relocations of eleven authorities from Stockholm to other parts of the country. We've turned the centralization wave around. Last week it was announced that Skara will get 100 new government jobs when the Public Employment Service expands the contact center. That's because we believe in Sweden. It is because we believe that it is important that we put the Stockholm fixation behind us and see the potential and competence that exists throughout our country. I've been to Götene myself. It is an important place for Swedish housing production. There are fantastic skills in Skaraborg. This competence must also be shared by the Swedish State. It is therefore important that we now work with relocations and strengthen our presence throughout our country.
i-a3afb22800180967-251	Mr President, I would like to That's excellent. I was going to ask you a follow-up question. One could also increase the state presence by, for example, increasing collaboration with municipal service offices and so on. What does the Minister intend to do to make it real in all municipalities?
i-a3afb22800180967-252	Mr President, I would like to We now have in the budget an effort that means that we are expanding the state service agencies to strengthen the state service presence. It's a different matter than relocating authorities. Here we ensure that all citizens have access to good government services. These are ten new government service agencies in the coming months until June. Then we develop the government service offices. We're connecting more government agencies. Here, the Swedish state will work together and ensure that the state service presence is strengthened together so that all citizens have good access to government services.
i-a3afb22800180967-254	Mr President, I would like to Six out of ten containers imported into or exported from Sweden have previously passed through the Port of Gothenburg. Swedish companies and the Swedish economy depend entirely on the Port of Gothenburg. The port has for a long time been under attack by a devastating port conflict that has affected the port, its employees and extremely Swedish companies and the Swedish economy. The government has set up an investigation to look at conflict rules in events like this in the port, when you have an existing collective agreement. The investigation should not be completed until May 2018. This means that a possible solution to this may be far from two years ahead. Meanwhile, problems continue for the port, for Sweden and for Swedish companies.
i-a3afb22800180967-257	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Helmered, for the question! The port of Gothenburg is important for Sweden. It is our most important point of contact, not only towards Europe but also towards the rest of the world, linked to our export industry. The fact that we have had problems in the harbour of Gothenburg for a very long time is not good. The fact that the fundamental issue, which triggered the conflict, is still unresolved, is not a good thing. Now there is something calmer in the harbour, as I understand, but the basic issue is still not solved. The government has acted. We are behind the Swedish model. But we also say that the Swedish model must not be abused. That's why we've set up an investigation. However, it can be said that the basic issue of which collective agreement will apply is an issue that has characterised the discussion in the port for decades. The bourgeois government had every opportunity to act during its time. Now we have acted and set up an investigation. Now the investigation needs time to work and do the right thing. These are rather tangled issues that need to be resolved wisely.
i-a3afb22800180967-259	Mr President, I would like to Yes, the port is crucial for Swedish companies and the Swedish economy. The worrying thing beyond the conflict that we now see is that shipping companies announce that they stop driving transocean shipping to Gothenburg – in Swedish it means that boats from America and the Far East stop driving directly to Gothenburg and that Sweden thereby loses this. It is really bad for Sweden, for the Swedish industry and for the business community. To recover this, the port problems must first be solved. Then I come back to what is really an appeal to the government: does it see that there is a possibility of speeding up this process so that the solution is not put forward two years in time?
i-a3afb22800180967-261	Mr President, I would like to The investigation has been completed until 31 May 2018 at the latest. If the investigation is completed faster, no one would be happier than the government, but there must be solid work on this legislation and how it can be changed. I note that the Moderates are taking this opportunity to start talking about the introduction of a principle of proportionality. That is a completely different question. It has nothing to do with the collective agreement to be used. The Moderates want to use the conflict to attack the Swedish model. I find that unfortunate.
i-a3afb22800180967-264	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Mr Per Bolund my question. We've recently seen some rogue dating sites. One of the worst examples is the one called Rich Meet Beautiful, where you are told to become a suck baby for a suck daddy. This site has, among other things, been marketed directly to students, i.e. directly where they have their teaching. In the ad it says: A SOUTH Daddy. And then you see a picture of a woman who's almost naked. She's wearing a bra that she's about to take off. This is now suspected of being pandering, but I also think it is gender-discriminatory advertising that is very offensive. My question is: how does the government view this problem? What can we do to avoid being exposed to this in public spaces?
i-a3afb22800180967-267	Mr President, I would like to This is an extremely serious issue. Of course, for a feminist government, gender discrimination in all forms, whether it is in the labour market or in the advertising world, for example, is unacceptable. Here we need to take steps forward. We are also taking steps forward in the government's budget when we now set aside money for a gender equality authority that can pursue these issues as actively as they deserve to be run. The government has tried to highlight the opportunity for young women to have role models, for example by having an equal government and an equal representation in the Swedish parliament. We have also tried to achieve gender equality more quickly on company boards, precisely in order for there to be role models. But the example that is being taken is rather the opposite. It undermines the confidence of young men and women and creates a picture that we cannot control our own lives. The government is looking at this issue very actively. We're looking at how best to handle it. We are preparing the question right now in the Government Office.
i-a3afb22800180967-271	Mr President, I would like to The phenomenon as such is disgusting. The police themselves say that they suspect that this is covert prostitution. It is disgusting that this can be promoted, but I also think that the gender-discriminatory aspect is terrible. This is unserious marketing. Even if it is not pandering, it is unserious and gender-discriminatory. I think it is important to pursue equality policy in all areas, as the government does. This applies, in particular, to misleading and gender-discriminatory advertising.
i-a3afb22800180967-272	Mr President, I would like to That is why it is not least important that we have anti-discrimination legislation that has really asked and that we allocate resources to our authorities, such as the Equality Ombudsman and the Equality Authority. At the same time, it is a complex area in which we also have high expectations regarding our constitutionally protected rights, such as freedom of expression. The information is now global. We must also consider how best to regulate cross-border activities. But this is an issue that we take very seriously, and we are working intensively to find a solution to it.
i-a3afb22800180967-275	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Mikael Damberg. Sweden is in the midst of the fourth industrial revolution, where digitalisation and automation radically change the conditions for industrial production. The industrial services sector will continue to grow. Industry is an invaluable asset for Sweden. It accounts for one fifth of the country's economy and employs about 1 million people. The industry also accounts for 77 per cent of the total export value, and one in four Swedish jobs depends on the industrial sector.
i-a3afb22800180967-280	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. The government has developed a new industrialisation strategy together with Swedish industry. We have developed a first action plan with 45 actions, and we have checked most of them. We are now preparing a second action plan, and several of the points contained in the Government's budget are there. These are exciting areas that are about how we can work with digitalisation and automation also linked to small and medium-sized companies. We have an exciting work on the sustainability issue. Here, Swedish industry is the world leader. We are now taking steps forward to replace process emissions in Swedish industry and bring them down to zero. For example, SSAB is working to completely remove the carbon in the steel process. This alone could reduce Sweden's CO2 emissions by 10%. It offers enormous opportunities if we work together with Swedish industry to both drive the industry forward with innovation and take sustainability issues seriously.
i-a3afb22800180967-285	Mr President, I would like to Not least in the current budget, a good basis is laid for filling industrial policy with concrete measures so that Sweden becomes a country with high employment, good growth and strong global competitiveness. What more can the Minister do to continue to strengthen Sweden as an industrial nation?
i-a3afb22800180967-287	Mr President, I would like to What I always do is talk well about Sweden as an industrial nation. Sweden is a modern industrial nation that we should be proud of. There are 1 million people going to work thanks to Swedish industry, and we will never meet our challenges without Swedish industry. We invest a lot in skills development, because Swedish industry has not had such large vacancies before. It's hard to find people. Now it is important to work with smart education policies so that the industry can continue to grow and develop in our country.
i-a3afb22800180967-290	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Enterprise Mikael Damberg. The government has visited Iran and says it wants a structured dialogue with Iran. Swedish companies will continue to establish themselves in Iran, and then it is important that we hand in hand with entrepreneurship to promote Sweden's view of human rights in the country. In Iran, people generally find it difficult under the regime and minorities in particular. The Bahaians are one of the largest religious minorities. They suffer financial apartheid, and their businesses are arbitrarily shut down again. They are also excluded from education. On 22 September, 115 Bahai students were denied admission to the universities of Iran unless they signed a paper promising to renounce their faith. Many Bahaians are imprisoned, including the majority in their highest council, Yaran.
i-a3afb22800180967-295	Mr President, I would like to I thank Anders Österberg for the question. The human rights issue in Iran is high on the government's agenda. In all our contacts with Iran, we point out the importance of human rights. Unfortunately, it is not only religious minorities that have human rights problems in Iran, but also journalists, women and poets. Human rights of many different groups are violated in Iran. We have developed a strategy for businesses and human rights. The government places tough demands on Swedish companies that act on the international market, and we expect them to respect human rights. It is also part of our export policy. However, transparency and our presence in Iran are important. The opposition politicians I have met here and also linked to Iran say that there is a desire in Iran to be more open to the outside world. It is rather the conservative groups in Iran who want to close the country. Sweden must therefore work for openness and for trade and exchange with Iran. We believe that it changes society in the long term.
i-a3afb22800180967-300	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Enterprise for his positive response and hope that the Minister for Economic Affairs will bring forward the situation of the Bahais in Iran and how they are treated there. It is true that many groups are being oppressed. Among others, a Sufi leader risks execution within a few days, just like a number of union leaders and others. I thank you for your reply and hope that the dialogue with Iran will go well.
i-a3afb22800180967-303	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. As Monica Green said earlier, it is gratifying that the government is making great efforts to ensure that the whole of Sweden lives. One example of this is the relocation of state authorities. However, it is important that the government also sees the intra-regional differences in the metropolitan area, because the conditions here are very different. Last term of office, Försäkringskassan was about to leave northern Botkyrka and Södertälje completely. These are large municipalities with 91 000 and 95 000 inhabitants respectively. There were widespread protests. Not least with the help of the red-green opposition in the Riksdag, these plans were rejected, and the Social Insurance Agency is still there. On 1 January 2019, the Government will open new service offices. My humble question is: Can one imagine that any of these service offices will end up in one of the large populous areas in the Stockholm region that have poor public services?
i-a3afb22800180967-308	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mrs Ingela Nylund Watz. Yes, the government can imagine. We have commissioned the authorities to identify where we have the greatest need. The need is in sparsely populated areas, as the Rural Committee has identified in its report, but it is also found in the suburbs outside our major cities. That is why we will ensure that citizens have good access to government services also in the big cities. We need reinforcements here. It is therefore important that we continue to expand the service offices and work together in the Swedish state. The state authorities must work together to strengthen their presence, and that is why we are now also connecting more authorities to the service offices.
i-a3afb22800180967-311	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government. It was gratifying to have such a clear answer. Those of us who represent the Stockholm region are well aware that the government is making great efforts, not least in those areas where we have great alienation and social divides. It's long-term billions, which is great. The state presence is incredibly important for these citizens to feel closeness and trust in the state.
i-a3afb22800180967-314	Mr President, I would like to The government will continue to work on this issue, both in the package dealing with the relocation of authorities and in the strengthening of service presence. In our dialogue with the municipalities, we have also sent out signals that it is important for them to assume their responsibilities and strengthen the municipal presence in areas outside the large urban centres and suburbs. In connection with relocations, we have received several positive messages from municipalities that make corresponding relocations within the municipality. This is a very important issue.
i-a3afb22800180967-316	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Mikael Damberg. Recently, we have seen an increasing presence of both racist and Nazi organisations. During Almedalsveckan last summer, the Nordic Resistance, like any other organisation, received permission to participate. A few months ago, a group of right-wing extremists attacked unaccompanied refugee children in Stockholm. Last weekend we saw a hate march on Gothenburg's parade street. It lacked permission, and the police actively chose not to intervene. This weekend Yom Kippur is celebrated, one of the most important celebrations of the Jews. The Nordic Resistance has then received permission from the police to march past the synagogue in Gothenburg and then gather outside the current book fair. You wonder how this could even happen. My question to Mikael Damberg is, are we going to have it like this?
i-a3afb22800180967-321	Mr President, I would like to I thank Teres Lindberg for a very important question. I think there are many who are provoked by what is happening in Sweden today – that we once again have Nazis demonstrating and marching on the streets around Sweden. It is not only Jews who celebrate Yom Kippur who react to it; it is all of us who are democrats. Nazism is not just an opinion or an ideological package; it is a crime against humanity. It reminds us that millions of people were exterminated during the Holocaust, and now the Nazis rise again and march in Sweden. We all have a responsibility to ensure that Nazis do not march on the streets of Sweden. There the government has to do a lot. We are trying to have a national strategy against this, and we are giving more money to the Police Authority to enable it to intervene against crimes. We are also making efforts to get to the ideologically motivated violence in Sweden via Säpo.
i-a3afb22800180967-323	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister very much for his answer. Both as a Member of Parliament and as a citizen, we are extremely provoked when we also have authorities that contribute to creating further conflicts and contradictions in society. I think it is very important that we get things right, because we cannot do that. Governments, like us as politicians and people, must always try to contribute to the sense and balance of society – not the other way round.
i-a3afb22800180967-325	Mr President, I would like to I think it is incredibly important to say that I and the government will never accept Nazism in Sweden. We see it as an attack on democracy. That is why we have invited the bourgeois parties and the Left Party to talk about society's ability to counter anti-democratic movements in society. We chose not to invite the Swedish Democrats, because the Swedish Democrats have not only their roots there but also leading representatives today who actively pay money to these Nazi organisations – because they thought it was for a good cause. This shows that the Swedish democrats have not made a deal with their history.
i-a3afb22800180967-327	Mr President, I would like to My question concerns the Housing Act versus the possibility – or willingness – of municipalities to arrange housing for new arrivals. The Housing Act applies to all municipalities. In cases where municipalities no longer have their own rental housing, it is used as an argument for the municipality not being able to accept the quota allocated to it. Some municipalities solve this in a good way by buying real estate. However, a municipality on the Skåne plain places caravans in an industrial area. In each trailer, there are now two lonely men. There are common service modules for kitchens, toilets and so on, and it is walking distance to the shop and bus. But this is not a satisfactory accommodation, and it will not facilitate integration. Does the Government consider that this procedure is consistent with the intentions of the Government with the Residence Act?
i-a3afb22800180967-330	Mr President, I would like to I think it is extremely important that the municipalities take housing responsibility very seriously. This is important not only because we have pointed out in law that the municipalities have a stronger responsibility for the new arrivals who have come to Sweden and been given the right to stay here through a residence permit, but also because they have a housing responsibility for all citizens living in the country. There have been deficiencies here for a long time, but we now see that the issue has been tightened up. It has come up on the agenda in the municipalities around Sweden, and this is partly due to measures taken by the state and the government. We have increased the pressure on municipalities to ensure that they are able to take responsibility now that we have become more people and when the economy and the population are growing in the country.
i-a3afb22800180967-332	Mr President, I would like to The risk is that more municipalities think that caravan parking is a solution, and I therefore wonder if it might be necessary to make even higher demands on housing and the quality of housing in relation to the situation of new arrivals.
i-a3afb22800180967-333	Mr President, I would like to I find it worrying signals if you use caravan parking in this way. I think we need to look at this issue more closely. It is not reasonable to have poor-quality housing. The municipalities have had quite good time to deal with the issue, I think. I promise to take a closer look at this and see if further action is needed.
