i-9675611e6eb05064-22	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 1 and 6. Today we are going to decide on the framework for the budget for next year. This happens at a time when the economy is going on high speed, Swedish exports are strong and many have a job to go to. This is in many ways a normal boom. At the same time, however, there are many who can testify to a country that is not functioning as it should, which shows that economic activity does not benefit everyone and exposes major problems. These are problems that are growing and require priorities and structural reforms – not in a few years' time, but now. Mr President, I would like to Let me give you some examples of the reality that does not bear witness to prosperity or good development. In the South Police Region there are 500 reports of violence in close relationships, which the police do not investigate. In any case, the perpetrators are identified, but because of all the shootings and murders, the police believe that it does not have time to investigate the acts of violence. In the same region there are 50 unsolved rape cases, where the perpetrators are identified. They are the same perpetrators who now walk the streets and can face their victims. Mental ill health among young people is increasing. Many youths have anxiety or depression and are at home in their room, perhaps in front of their computer. But at worst, they just stare right into a wall. They can now wait month after month before getting any contact with health care. Many who have immigrated to Sweden go to work every day and contribute to what is common. At the same time, however, the problems of integration in Sweden are increasing. It is now nine years before even half of all new arrivals have a job to go to. Many people make a living on benefits, and many children never see their parents go to work. In a boom, the long-term unemployed usually have a chance to enter the labour market, but this is not the case in this economy. The number of long-term unemployed is increasing. Since the government changed labour market policies, over 20 000 long-term unemployed are now completely unemployed without any activity at all. They passivate, and this is happening in the midst of a boom. Mr President, I would like to I have given some examples of problems that are increasing and spreading, despite the fact that there are good opportunities to stop, break and reverse development if you want and are able to prioritise. We are currently experiencing strong growth. Unemployment among native born women in the middle of life is down to about 2%. The good times are partly due to the fact that the alliance government handled the financial crisis very well and made the necessary structural reforms, and partly to temporary effects such as the strong housing market and construction, not least because of the uniquely low interest rates. The euro zone is also helping us to move, where growth is the highest in a decade and the confidence in the future is the strongest since the cyber bubble. This provides a welcome reinforcement for our exports. Mr President, I would like to The question I ask myself at the moment is: How can it be that, in the midst of a boom, we cannot afford to investigate both murder and rape cases? How can it be that, in the midst of a boom, we do not have the ability or the means to reduce care queues? How can it be that we do not take the chance to crack long-term unemployment when the economy is going well and tax revenues are increasing? Of course we can afford it, and of course we can reverse the trend. But this government doesn't have the ability. This is simply becoming a wasted boom, Mr President. The Moderates' budget offers a different direction. It is a budget that prioritises and focuses. We do not promise everything to everyone, but we promise to tackle the social problems that we see and find solutions to them. Our policy always starts with jobs, because it is only through work and effort that Sweden can be built strong and stay together. Our budget is a budget for the one who works, the one who has worked and the one who wants to work and where effort always pays off. Our budget includes structural reforms, which are expected to increase employment by around 70 000 in the long term. How do we do this? Well, we're proposing the biggest grant reform since the '80s. It contains, among other things, a premium ceiling, which is based on the very simple principle that it must always pay more to go to work than to live on benefits and stay at home. We lower taxes for everyone who works, with particular emphasis on lower incomes. For a family with two full - time salaries, this means about a thousand dollars more in their wallets each month. We also make it more profitable, for example for a nurse or teacher, to take an extra hit or to become a manager. It is not reasonable that they pay 50% tax when they work extra. We are also lowering taxes on pensioners, those who have worked. We do it on retirement, but we do it also for those pensioners who remain in the labour market and work a little extra. The Swedish labour market needs more, not fewer, experienced employees. Mr President, I would like to Since everything starts with the jobs, we will also make it easier for the Swedish job creators, the companies, to be active and grow here. We are improving the competitiveness of our budget. We know that it is with advanced jobs that Sweden can be built strong and compete with the outside world. Therefore, we see a great need for regulatory simplification. We also see a great need for companies to have more opportunities to take in skills from other countries. We need to simplify the rules for labour migration, but we also focus on quality in higher education. While we see the need for more jobs – we have a target of 500,000 more jobs – we also need jobs that do not require such a high level of education. Together with the Alliance, we want to introduce entry jobs so that more young people and immigrants can learn the job at work and get the important first job. Mr President, I would like to We have the energy to prioritise our budget. We focus on the basic functions of society. Those who have been subjected to crime should be taken seriously, not met by the closure of the investigation or have to wait in uncertainty and fear for society to act. We give the police and the whole legal chain better opportunities to do their job. The Moderates propose the largest investment in law and order in Sweden in 20 years. It is about higher wages and better conditions so that more people want to become police officers and more want to stay as police officers. Swedish care is of high quality, but more people need to have access to it. Care queues have doubled in three years. That is why we are strengthening healthcare by 3 billion to halve queues, but we are also investing in primary care so that everyone can trust that healthcare is not only of good quality, but also that you can take part of it when you really need it. Mr President, I would like to Economic policy also needs to be long-term. When the next recession comes – and I can promise it will – it is important that Sweden can face it with an active stabilisation policy. We therefore want the Moderates and the Alliance as a whole to have a more moderate approach to policy in the current economic situation. We simply save more in the barns than the government does. We have a financial savings that is SEK 10 billion stronger than the government's every year throughout the budget period. The combination of offensive efforts and tighter fiscal policies is made possible by clear priorities, where jobs, security and welfare always take precedence over increased subsidies and subsidy policies. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, it is both sad and remarkable that, in a very strong boom with good economics and a good labour market, we have a government that is unable to tackle social problems and is unable to present structural reforms that lead to increased employment. The government has now put forward four budgets, several of them in a boom. At the same time, however, we see problems growing in many parts of society. Sweden can and deserves much better.
i-9675611e6eb05064-47	Mr President, I would like to The division into the Swedish labour market is extremely worrying and is now beginning to lead to more or less desperate reforms. Today, more than half of unemployment is born abroad. Sweden has the second highest employment gap in the whole OECD area. The proposal that the trade union branch of the Social Democrats, persistently driven by industry, is launching, with very strong wage subsidies for newly arrived immigrants, will entail an enormous cost to taxpayers, as well as a manslaughter of the Swedish model. These tax-subsidised fake jobs are not the answer for Swedish labour market policy. We are going to do several things in labour market policy. However, none of these measures will solve the problems until we have a realistic and restrictive immigration policy and an effective return policy on the ground. We are approaching a situation of up to 1 million people of working age who are supported by the public, many of them born abroad. This situation is not sustainable – not in the short term and even less in the longer term. What we can and will do, however, is to reduce income taxes with a focus on low income earners. It is a reform for greater economic freedom for households, but it also increases the drive to seek a job. It can also apply to low-paid work or part-time work, which we empirically know is a stepping stone to a regular full-time job. We invest SEK 20 billion in reducing taxes for mainly low- and middle-income earners. In a debate article last week, the chairman of the Committee on Finance wrote that this reform is unfair. It says something about the very essence of the Social Democracy. A tax reduction aimed at increasing the economic freedom of low- and middle-income earners can be described as unfair. Clearly, we have very different views on what justice is. We also lower the tax for those who earn more and spend more than SEK 5 billion on reducing marginal tax. This refers to households that the government has decided are rich and are therefore by definition not deserving of any tax reduction. About one in three employees in Sweden today is rich. It's been decided by the government. The problem for these roughly one and a half million wage earners is that they do not directly feel rich. If you have one or two children to support, a mortgage to be paid and amortised every month and 50 per cent marginal tax, there is not that much money left. I really wish that one third of the employees were really rich. But it's not like that. It is only in the government's own little bubble that this is the case. I really don't know what reality you're living in. Sweden has the world's highest marginal taxes. It is not a sensible tax policy. We must also reduce the tax on hiring, not least for small businesses. It is small businesses that are responsible for job growth, and that is what we should invest in. Lower the employer's contribution – then the jobs will come! Mr President, I would like to For too long, the Public Employment Service has been allowed to be the playhouse and experimental workshop of the Social Democrats. It is a highly dysfunctional authority that consumes tens of billions of taxpayers' money annually. It is to be closed in its current form. Open to more and above all other actors! Abolish the monopoly! Put it on the market! And we don't need to reinvent the wheel here at home. Other countries have implemented corresponding reforms. Let us learn and be inspired by them! What is interesting is that there is a political majority in this House to carry out just such a reform. We could have done this already this autumn, if the bourgeois gang had not been so incredibly toothless and totally impotent. One does not dare to talk about one's own policy, because there is a risk that one's own policy will become a reality. Such a total lack of self-confidence and leadership I believe has never existed in a so-called political opposition before. How to explain one's actions to one's own voters in next year's election movement is beyond my understanding. Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned earlier, we will not be able to solve the problems of the labour market without first tackling immigration policy. We must have a complete stop to asylum, and that must apply for the foreseeable future. The right of asylum does not allow the freedom to choose the country of asylum. There is no war, famine or oppression in either Denmark, Germany or Finland, from which all asylum seekers who come to Sweden come. We must have a completely different set of rules for family immigration. It is not reasonable that you can come to Sweden because you have someone close to you in the country and be supported by the public. It is not the responsibility of the Swedish state or the Swedish taxpayer to support the citizens of other states. The responsibility for providing care for a relative immigrant must be fully assigned to the associate, not Swedish society. At the same time, of course, we should stop expelling highly skilled labour immigrants because of some minor error with the employer. It is completely incomprehensible to me how the government can allow the Migration Agency to act as it is right now, with a frenetic zeal against people who follow law and law, who work and pay taxes and who contribute to our general welfare, but at the same time with total disregard for people who have lied about their age or identity or otherwise have an unclear basis of conviction. It doesn't make any sense. In fact, it is the Swedish Democrats who stand for the sensible view of a means-tested qualified labour migration. Mr President, I would like to In our budget motion, we in Sweden Democrats are proposing large savings on the extremely expensive migration policy, on the inefficient integration policy, on labour market policy, on government subsidies to developers, on government subsidies to various fuels and on government subsidies to fake jobs. Instead, we are committed to the absolute core task of the state: to uphold law and order. We invest heavily in health care, care and significantly improved working conditions for public employees. These are things that are entitled to full-time. About 100,000 people work against their will part-time in the public sector. They want nothing more than to work more, but they can't. 100 000 people are involuntary part-time workers. These are things that are entitled to paid further training on working hours so that the nurse can, with full pay, continue to study as a specialist nurse, for example, and thereby increase his salary. Mr President, I would like to I support the Swedish Democrats' reservations Nos 2 and 7.
i-9675611e6eb05064-61	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the Centre Party's reservations 3 and 8. When we gather for this debate, it is at the top of a boom. Thanks to sensible reforms over a long period of time, Sweden has managed the recent financial crisis and later recovery in a good way. Overall, it looks pretty good in terms of both GDP growth and the labour market situation. That is a good thing, and it provides a good starting point for conducting this debate and future policy. What is interesting, however, and what such a debate should be about is: What do we do to deserve further years and decades of Swedish success, growth and welfare? Unfortunately, Mr President, I can see that far too little is being done here. The fundamental problems of the Swedish economy that we brought into this boom are still even more present on the way out. In the good times, however, in the past we have received a number of ominous signs that people and companies are opting out of Sweden as a base for their business. This week, although it was a political decision, the countries of Europe decided jointly not to place the European Medicines Agency in Sweden. A few weeks ago, it was announced that Nordea considered that Sweden was not the basis for its continued European expansion. Time's fast. It is over a year ago that among others Spotify went out with a call and made demands on Swedish policy to deliver a number of points and improve the conditions for acting as a rapidly growing high-tech company in Sweden. The five points supported by Spotify and others have not yet been addressed. That is the example of what I, the Center Party and the Alliance have been talking about for quite some time. We must do more today to deserve continued Swedish success. In practice, these are, above all, labour and housing markets which are too rigid and not as modern and flexible as they would have to be in a world that is constantly moving faster. It is also a question of daring to say that our tax system is increasingly not solving Sweden's challenges, is adapted to another time and needs to be modernised. In the labour market, we can see that gradually changes are taking place for the better. It is a good thing that unions and employers at least sit and talk about the incredible challenge of getting, not least, new arrivals into work and finding new ways into the labour market. If they come up with something good or not, we will see, but at least they sit and try. This is something that both the Center Party and the Alliance have talked about and come up with strong proposals about for a long time. It is clear that new ways are needed where you learn at work and can get into work long before the nine years that it is on average about before you as a newcomer in Sweden get a foot in the labour market. Another issue where it must begin to move is the Labour Service's monopoly on matching and communicating people from different forms of exclusion and into work. It has long been evident that it has not worked. Here we have been pushing for a long time, but nothing has yet happened. So it must continue. Only in recent weeks have we received a report on what we already knew, namely that companies that need to seek labour do not use the Employment Service. It's not an effective way to work modern with matching. That is something that we need to reform fundamentally. Only two of the things that we need to address within the framework of the Swedish labour market are increasingly not solving modern Sweden's problems. The housing market is in many ways a parallel. It is too little flexibility and mobility, and it is too much regulatory burden. The biggest failure of this parliamentary term was that there was no housing agreement. There is no reason to throw guilt between the right and the left. It is only to be noted that the Swedish people voted for 349 MPs who did not solve the task. We have to try again. This means that people cannot move to work or education. This is something that makes Sweden poorer. Here sacred cows such as interest rebates and rent regulation must be put on the table and modernised. Otherwise, we will not reach the new situation on the Swedish housing market that we need. It must be one of the highest priorities to discuss the next election year and to address it no later than 9 September 2018. Mr President, I would like to Swedish emissions are increasing. It's bad. We need to get back to a situation that we had a few years ago where Sweden combined economic growth and reduced emissions. This is the greatest gift that a small country that Sweden can give to the international environmental work. If our point of reference in the international context is simply that we are good at spending a lot of money on environmental policy, many countries around the world are saying: it is nothing for us, because we do not have that money. On the contrary, if we say that we are showing the way to combining increased economic growth and activity, to create jobs and strengthen our economy, while reducing emissions, several countries around the world are thinking: it is also a path that our country should take. It's the greatest gift we can give. That is why it is so serious that we can no longer display that combination. Swedish emissions are increasing. Here we must return to basic and right incentives for green transition. It is a question of a green tax shift in which the government does not increase taxes much more on jobs and entrepreneurship than it does on environmental pollution. We have more green taxes in the tax mix. We will work in every way to return to the situation of high economic growth and reduced emissions. That is when we act as the global example that others want to follow. Mr President, I would like to We also have great needs where we, as economic politicians, will have to allocate more resources. Within the absolute core of welfare, we can note that, not least, the mental health care of young people has very serious problems. Here we have to work smarter but also allocate more money. We need to invest more money so that it is not so that many county councils shut down the receptions for young people who are having a difficult time and feel bad mentally during the summer which is often the toughest period. I am pleased that this issue has been discussed more and more over the past year and how we can work smartly to meet our perhaps biggest social societal challenge right now. In my budget, which I will be voting on later this afternoon, we are adding increased resources precisely for young people's mental illness. But, of course, more will be needed. Here we need to join forces. We must strengthen what is the absolute core of what a state can do. If we are forced to give priority to a number of what we are doing today in the public sector, what is left at the end? It is to maintain law and order, the monopoly of violence and to guarantee security both on the way home from the bus and against what Vladimir Putin might come up with. Here we have been betting too little for a long time. We need to strengthen the whole chain of justice with all our law enforcement agencies, including proper defence efforts. This is a homework we did not do in the 1990s and early 2000s, and it will be up to our political generation to correct this mistake. It will be expensive; it is something we have to adjust to. In the budget that we put on Parliament's table, we make just such priorities. We are increasing our efforts in the judicial system considerably, and we are increasing our efforts in the defence sector considerably. We note that in opposition too, the Center Party, the Moderates and to some extent the other Alliance have also contributed to the fact that substantial efforts have already been made on the ground, although much more needs to be done. Mr President, I would like to We have plenty of things to do. There are a number of sleeves that need to be rolled up. Let's get started on what are the real future issues for Sweden, and let's build Sweden stronger in the long term.
i-C4Ee8PQCBx7VZkicAhT44u	Mr President, I would like to Next week, this House will consider and then decide on the government's proposal for increased taxation of savings in investment savings accounts and capital insurance. When the issue was raised in committee – not in our committee, not bene, but in the tax committee – the member of the Center Party chose not to vote against it. Almost 1 million people are currently saving in an investment savings account. Many of them do so because the government abolishes the possibility of private retirement. There are therefore not many other options. I have a simple question for Emil Källström: Why is the Center Party on the government's side of the question? Why are you not prepared to fight for the small savers?
i-9675611e6eb05064-89	Mr President, I would like to The increase in tax on the ISK account is poor. On the contrary, it would be good to further improve people's saving possibilities. If you read our budget and the budgets of many other parties in this House, you can see that the government is relatively alone in thinking that this is a good idea. I have said in the media, and I am happy to say this here in Parliament's pulpit too, that this is one of the first things we will delete after the 2018 elections. It's not too far away. The reason why we choose not to meddle in the Tax Committee or in the Finance Committee is because we want to safeguard the state financial framework that we have, where we make decisions on the budget at one time and through a club team – all income and all expenses. Both the Swedish democrats and the red-greens have gone away a few times, but that is not something we will be contributing to this autumn. That's why we haven't gotten into this game. On the contrary, we put the resources and focus on shaping ourselves to win the next election, because then both ISK tax increases and other bad red-green things will disappear. But now that I have Oscar Sjöstedt in the speaker's seat for a change of line, I would like to put a counter-question in a completely different area. It concerns something you mentioned briefly in your speech, namely that the Swedish Democrats would clear away a lot of what you call subsidies on fuel. That sounds very good, if you don't say anything more. But part of this is to substantially reduce the funding to change Sweden in a greener direction. At the moment, in my constituency, investment in billions is planned: 5 000 new jobs for new products in the new forest. But it will require political action and help, as does any other change. Why are you, Oscar Sjöstedt, so against 5,000 new jobs to Västernorrland?
i-9675611e6eb05064-93	Mr President, I would like to I am not against 5,000 new jobs wherever they appear, but I am against inefficient and costly subsidies. We should almost be able to agree there. I'm going back to the original question. Why wait until the next election? Here we have every opportunity in the world to stop this before it even comes into place. Why let it come into place now, wait a year and then perhaps have the opportunity to remove it in just over a year? I don't get it. The reasoning doesn't quite hold. Member Källström cannot reasonably see it as his task to help the government pilot its policy with reference to any regulatory framework. The reasoning doesn't hold. If there is any regulation that prevents Emil Källström from pursuing the policy he really wants – my God, then we change that regulatory framework! This is the Swedish Parliament. It is reasonable for us to decide which regulations we should be subject to. You and your friends were prepared to fire a bunch of government ministers because of a flight tax. How does it rhyme with the regulations? It's rounding the whole code. Now you never did, because the Center Party wussed out once things got real. But you were prepared to do so. You were prepared to fire a bunch of ministers because of a tax increase. But you clearly cannot vote in committee against a tax increase in a bill. The reasoning doesn't hold. It cannot reasonably be the task of the opposition, whether Emil Källström or mine, to help the government steer its policies. I'm not buying that reasoning. Of course, the Center Party is free to interpret the rules as they like, but I will make it clear to both my own and your constituents how you act on the matter and we will see what they have to say about it.
i-9675611e6eb05064-98	Mr President, I would like to In his last sentence, Oscar Sjöstedt is at the heart of the issue, for this will finally be decided in the next elections. If the Swedish people want to increase taxes on everything that moves, raise taxes on savings and so on, you can quietly continue to vote for the red-green ones. I'm going to work pretty hard because it's not going to be that way for us to get on a better path in the long term. What Oscar Sjöstedt is arguing against is actually that we have rules at all for how we work here. We've tried not to have any rules. We hardly had any rules on how to draw up a budget. Budget decisions were made in time and out of time, they were in the opposite direction and so on. It was bad. We learned from it and put a very tight regulatory framework in place for how we make decisions on the budget. Once it is decided and proposals are to be set against each other, it is all expenses and all revenue in a club team. This does not prevent the opposition from doing what we do, for example: putting severe pressure on the government not to defy the will of the parliamentary majority on a number of issues. In fact, there were two ministers who disappeared last spring. There were also a number of tax increases that disappeared. We have made the government budget better by being very clear on a number of points about what is not tolerated. But in order to get what you want on all points, there is only one way, and that is to vote for a better government that takes responsibility for the whole after an election, which we shall now have quite soon. Otherwise, as soon as there is a Social Democrat sitting as Prime Minister with his government friends, there will be a lot of points that both Oscar Sjöstedt and I will want to stop. However, in order to overcome this, the Swedish people must vote for an alliance government.
i-9675611e6eb05064-102	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by calling for additional cases to reservations 4 and 9. Mr President, I would like to The last major tax reform in Sweden, at least known as tax reform, was the 1991 century tax reform. Then, in 1991, we had a Windows called 3.0. Nintendo had his eight-bit game console, which was a hotly awaited Christmas present. There were still three years left to the World Wide Web. I went to high school myself and had a blonde kalufs. Some things were better before. I think it's time again for a tax reform. Perhaps we should make this the millennium of tax reform. We should then consider a number of things both in the budget and in such a future tax reform. We see from the Liberals that we have a great opportunity in Sweden, but we also have a big problem. We need to deal with it now, and we need to deal with it in a tax reform in the future. The opportunity we have is the digital revolution. The problem we have is the gap between the people who have entered Swedish society and the people who are excluded. Let me start with the problem and then finish with the opportunity. The alienation declined during the alliance government, but we see that it is increasing again. In addition, we have had, especially in 2015, a large migration of refugees with partially low-skilled people who have come here. They are very welcome to Sweden, but there is a problem when we have a labour market that works as it does. It is a very rigid labour market where it is expensive to hire people. This makes it very difficult for a large part of these people to enter the labour market. We have heard my comrades touch on this before. The solution is obvious. Of course, if we have a rigid labour market, we should make it less rigid. We need modern labour market rules in Sweden. If it is expensive to hire people, we will of course make it cheaper to hire people, which is exactly what we do in the Liberals' budget and also in common with the other alliance parties on some points. It should then be remembered that the most important antidote to exclusion in the long term is a good and functioning school. We Liberals have been pushing this issue for a long time, as you may have heard of. We also have, of course, proposals on this in this budget. We propose ten-year primary school, more teaching hours and a variety of other things. We leave the problem and focus on the great opportunity that we have with the digital revolution that is sweeping the world. Sweden has got a good start. We are doing well in several areas and far ahead in the field of technology. We have a large number of fast-growing start-up companies. Stockholm is one of the world's best start-up cities and competes with places like Silicon Valley to have the most fast-growing companies. But we also see here how some of these companies grow abroad and not in Sweden. Spotify is an example, and there are others as well. To a large extent, this is due to the tax policy pursued by the government today. Startup companies are not enough. They're good, but they're not enough. We need to digitise society as a whole. We have a lot of proposals in this area from the Liberals. I'll tell you some of them now. We have a digitization billion to care in order to have the resources to digitise it. One must be able to offer as good digital accessibility as physical accessibility, or perhaps better given how physical accessibility is sometimes. We have a digital care guarantee. You should be able to have your journal available online easily and safely. Patients should be offered treatment online. From the political point of view, we need to look much wider at this issue in terms of digitalisation. We want a proper review of large parts of Swedish legislation from the perspective that we have exponential technological growth and that Moore's law applies, i.e. that development not only goes fast but that it goes faster and faster. This puts pressure on regulations both high and low, and sometimes completely unexpected questions arise. We will not be able to anticipate and fix all the problems in advance, but we will be able to solve some problems and with such a knowledge base we will be able to be on our toes when problems arise. That's what we saw last year when it was suddenly forbidden to have drones with cameras on. The government's first attitude was that nothing had to be done about it in order for an investigation to be completed a year and a half later. After a couple of weeks they changed, and we quickly resolved it together here in Parliament. The starting point must always be that we solve things like this quickly, not that there is an investigation that will be completed in two years' time. Another part is the fast-growing collaborative economy where we need to make sure that it is easy to report these data to the Swedish Tax Agency – we need to do many things, but this is one of them – so that you can get gray and black parts of this economy to become white and that employees' conditions are guaranteed to be good. We also have huge amounts of public data that need to be made available digitally in order to build services but also for the principle of public access itself. It is extremely important, not least I who live in the country, that the digital infrastructure is located throughout Sweden. In the field of education and in the run-up to the introduction of programming in certain subjects, the teaching profession needs to have a digital teacher's lift. We have a number of proposals in the Liberals' budget regarding the digitisation of society. They're important in themselves. At the same time, however, we cannot have a tax policy that is counterproductive in this area. As I mentioned earlier, start-ups are growing abroad instead of in Sweden. If a factory closes in Sweden and a thousand people loses their job, it is a huge news story, but when Spotify hires a thousand people abroad instead of in Stockholm as they first thought it will not be at all as big a news story. But it's just as big news or even bigger, because this is about the new jobs that are emerging. In the 1991 tax reform, we abandoned marginal taxes of 80 – 85 percent and dramatically lowered them while broadening the tax base, including in the area of VAT. Now, Sweden is once again on a level where we have the world's highest marginal taxes – and that in one of the countries in the West where education is least profitable. Taxing knowledge and education, which is by far the most important resource, at the highest level in the world, is, of course, a test. The government spends money on all kinds of things in this budget. Some are good, but a lot is pampering for an election year. The enormous opportunity we have for the digital society that is emerging is partly forgotten in the government's budget, and through fiscal policy parts of it are counteracted. I think it is extremely important for Sweden that we manage both the problem of the labour market and take advantage of the possibility of digitalisation. I think we need to solve the problem of exclusion by making sure to create more low-skilled jobs so that you get your first job regardless of whether you are young or have recently moved here to Sweden, but we also need to ensure that the high-skilled and high-paid jobs grow and remain in Sweden. We are doing exactly this in the Liberals' budget, and that should also be the starting point for a possible future tax reform. I am absolutely convinced that we can solve the problem of exclusion and, at the same time, seize the enormous opportunity of digitalisation.
i-9675611e6eb05064-124	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish economy is generally doing well, and that is excellent. But Sweden's reform work is not doing well – the work that will build Sweden strongly for the future, secure Sweden's competitiveness and open ways into the labour market. Efforts to address the vulnerability of people with disabilities, to reverse the insecurity of some residential areas and to counteract the loneliness that many elderly people suffer from incapacitating their homes. That work is not done. Care queues are increasing in line with the term of office. Area by area can be added to the list. The police are in crisis, we have a rigid housing market and a two-tier labour market where, despite the boom, more and more people stand further from a job and do not get the chance to show what they are doing in a working community. Real, substantial reforms are necessary but are absent from the red-green budget bill that is not called The structural reform front is nothing new but perhaps should have been called that. I believe that this creates some risks, namely that trust in the public sector is being sidelined. We need to be concerned about this for the future. The number of proposals for expenditure is increasing. The public commitment is being extended widely. Then you can get the picture that it is money that goes to welfare. It is to some extent, but not just. It is also an expensive and inefficient e-bike premium. Inefficient is a word that can be used on environmental policy at all. There is a lower price for nature guided tours, such as beaver safaris and deer reconnaissance. There are free bus cards for all students over 12 years in the summer. More and more welfare services at all will be free of charge. For example, it has become free for older people over 85 to sit in ever longer care queues. Then I have not mentioned expensive and inefficient building subsidies or a labour market policy that does not work. The things I have mentioned are major reforms. A normal year of reform, when we do not have a lot of money or room for reform, they would be dominant. That's a lot of money. If large sums are to be spent on a large number of reforms in a cyclical situation like this, they should go to measures that equip Sweden. I think it does to far too little extent. What needs to be done then? A proper reform diet is needed, rather than the slightly sugary but rather low-nutrition approach proposed by the government. The Christian Democrats spend less money than the government. We are more cautious about spending more on the state, because we want to be able to invest in reforms. In order to create more jobs, we propose double-tax deductions for groups that find it difficult to enter the labour market, such as young people, new arrivals and the long-term unemployed. In combination with that, we propose a new form of employment, with slightly lower entry salaries, to be able to learn the job at work and a deleted employer's contribution. We are proposing a substantial extension of the RUT reform that has worked so well. And, in fact, we are spending more than the government on short vocational training such as vocational training and university of applied sciences. We want to remove the special salary tax for the elderly introduced by the government. We will also propose that the difference in taxation between wage earners and pensioners be abolished completely from 1 January 2018. We propose a broad tax relief for all and a special job tax deduction for parents to strengthen the opportunities of families with children. We want to see reduced marginal taxes, so that it pays better to take a management job in the care of the elderly or to continue training as a midwife. When we say no to labour market policies that do not work, no to building subsidies, no to many free reforms, no to ineffective and condemned environmental measures, but yes to increased environmental taxes, we can also make substantial investments in health care and care – 27 billion more than the government over three years. So with the Christian Democrats' budget, there will be more money for health care and care than with government policy. Even assuming that every penny the government proposes in increased general government grants goes to just health care and care, which they do not, there will still be more money for health care and care with the Christian Democrats' budget. Above all, we want to make structurally correct reforms in the area of health care. This is an extension of primary care. We are too hospitalized in Sweden. We need a substantial expansion of primary care. This applies to accessibility in terms of transparency but also to a sharper guarantee of care, so that more people feel that it is worthwhile to turn to primary care instead of emergency services. We are, of course, reinstating the cue billions. It is a mystery that the government has not already reintroduced it, after seeing the care queues grow. We also want to see 2 billion to share for those county councils that manage to keep available health care places all months of the year. I think it is a key to reducing overcrowding and health damage. We must also start a reform so that the state takes responsibility for hospital care in Sweden. Today's system, with 21 county councils that will pass all the health care skills, is unable to overcome inequality. Mr President, I would like to Loneliness is as dangerous as smoking, says some research. But in Sweden more and more people die without any ceremony. I think it is partly related to the lack of retirement homes. The elderly must not come to a place where there is more of fellowship. Elderly housing is needed not only for medical reasons but also for social reasons. But more and more people are told that there is no retirement home for them. Then you take power from older people. Loneliness is allowed to crawl along the walls of those who feel isolated. If at the same time we have a home service where older people can meet an almost innumerable number of people, we have a problem. The Christian Democrats believe that there is a need for a retirement home guarantee. In order to be able to implement it and meet that need, clear incentives are needed for municipalities to build retirement homes. We also need a far greater increase in economically vulnerable elderly people's BTP than the government proposes, so that more, not least older women, can afford to move to newly produced shelters or whatever it is about. And we need to encourage municipalities to develop ways of working that increase staff density. We are also making a major effort to counter dementia, to name a few. Mr President, I would like to Hope and faith in the future depend on a school that works. Here, like the government, we are putting substantial resources in place. But we put it on some other things. We believe that it is crucial to be able to attract the best teachers to the schools that need them most. We want to introduce a special teacher's lift. There's a big shortage of special teachers. We want to make a competence effort so that far more teachers gain competence in Swedish as a second language. We also want to make a greater effort on student health, so that all students can know that it is possible to get in touch with student health on the same day. That knowledge would also mean a lot to the teachers. All parents need to be more involved in schooling. Research shows that it is more successful if you are able to involve your parents in schooling, giving parents the tools to support their children in schooling. This also applies to those parents who are not themselves resourceful and who may not have their own experiences of Swedish school. The government is actually making a small effort there. I would like to commend the approach. Maybe they've listened to us; maybe it's all their own thinking. Either way, it's good. But I think it's wrong that it's the study associations that are going to do this. You have to do it at school. Otherwise, I don't think it'll work. But it is a very good approach. Mr President, I would like to In our draft budget, we are not cutting back on prosecutors and courts. We ensure that the money spent on the Police Authority is not just spent in a general pot, but that we get the most out of it by increasing local anchoring and by ensuring that the police can invest more in better working conditions. We are doing this in order to recruit and retain police officers and to bring more police officers into the streets and squares faster than with government policy. We also make efforts to lift the vulnerable and make it easier for some who have a tough financial situation. I have mentioned increased housing allowances for pensioners. We also propose increased child participation in the housing allowance for financially vulnerable families with children. We are allocating funds for family reunification so that small children can be reunited with their parents and so that the law that makes it possible to grant a residence permit when there are particularly distressing circumstances is reintroduced. But we also have funds for more detention centres, to increase the efficiency of reuse work for people who are to be rejected. Mr President, I would like to We have many challenges in Sweden. I've mentioned some of them. But I am also thinking of another challenge that we do not hear very much about in this House or in the debate on society. A few weeks ago I heard a representative of Bris say on the radio that children in Sweden do not believe that their parents have time for them. Do we have a policy to meet that societal challenge? Someone may object that it is not a political issue in the first place. No, that could be it. But politics must be there and give families more time for the children, more time together, more energy to be there when the children need it. We propose a wide range of such initiatives in our budget. I'm proud of that. I sometimes think that politics is more about us steering and setting up with the families than supporting them. Mr President, I would like to My conviction is that trust grows when we can rely on welfare, when we can trust the police and the school and when we can trust that care exists when we need it. Therefore, it is incredibly important that we manage these social functions in a better way. At the same time, trust is not something that can be commanded from the state or the public. We need a society that holds together with its own strength and will, where its own effort and responsibility pay off. It should be a society built in families and by companies, parishes and associations. It should be a society where trust and solidarity with the victim are established, where we feel love, where we are seen and where we can contribute. And it's best done in community with other people. I believe and hope that the Christian Democratic draft budget would be the best thing for a society that is developing in such a direction.
i-9675611e6eb05064-155	Mr President, I would like to If anyone has missed it, we are discussing and debating the framework of the state budget, revenue and direction of economic policy for 2018. Based on what I have listened to so far in the debate, there is no doubt that there are very different views on which path leads Sweden best forward. What Parliament today, this afternoon, is going to take a position on is the government's draft budget and the counter-proposals put forward by the five opposition parties. The options are clear. Against the government's investments in the construction of society are the tax cuts and cuts of the bourgeois parties and the Swedish democrats. Much has been said about the alternatives of the other parties. They've told me a lot, but maybe not everything. So I thought I'd start with that. In the Moderates' draft budget, the cuts add up to SEK 35 billion. It is a broad palette of cuts in everything from housing construction to health care and social care. At a time when housing shortages are high and prospective parents are worried about childbirth, it is, of course, an untenable policy focus. In Almedalen the Liberal Party leader stood and said that the big task for Sweden for the foreseeable time is to fight the divides. It's a problem picture that I'm happy to share. However, the budget motion proposes major tax cuts, in which almost everything goes to the absolute highest-paid. Most of it goes to high-paid men. With such an economic policy, the Liberals cannot solve the task which, according to their own statements, is the most important in the foreseeable future. Instead, there will be increased gaps and less equality. The Center Party is happy to talk warmly about spending on welfare, but the party actually cuts 12 billion on municipalities and county councils that produce and deliver welfare. There can be no possibility of more schools, more retirement homes or more employees with better conditions. The Swedish Democrats go even further with 13 billion in cuts to municipalities and county councils. There will be less security for children and old people. Instead, they want to spend resources on a substantial tax cut for those who earn the best. The opposition parties may have many different ideas about which taxes are to be lowered and in which areas to cut down, but the common denominator is that the minus signs dance over the leaves. Mr President, I would like to Minus marks are what the bourgeois usually leave behind when it comes to public finances. This was also the case in 2014. On three occasions in modern times bourgeois governments have ruled Sweden. Every time they've left big holes in our public fancy. In 2014, it was just over SEK 60 billion. For three years now, Magdalena Andersson has instead amortised the public debt and put responsible investments in society before tax cuts. In fact, the result of that work speaks clearly. Today 200 000 more have a job to go to, and next year the government surplus is expected to land at SEK 80 billion. We are indeed in a new economic situation. The big question now is not how to get public finances in order – they are in good order – but the big question is how to continue investing in the construction of society, or whether to do so and instead reduce taxes. The government budget clearly shows what we want to do. We want to continue building society in responsible forms, as we always add – we are boring for the public finances responsible social democrats. Half of the surplus, EUR 40 billion, is proposed to go towards amortising the public debt, which has reached its lowest quota since 1977. Thus, Sweden stands stable and well equipped for worse times and possibly new international crises, with substantial resources to use to safeguard Swedish jobs and Swedish welfare. The other half we want to use for reforms that secure welfare and that structurally strengthen the Swedish model. Firstly, employment policy must be further tightened up. Everyone who can work is going to work. This is the basis for the Swedish model. And that is the foundation on which we build a general welfare society. Now that there is both a shortage of labour in several sectors and at the same time there are many unemployed who lack the right skills or training to take on the job vacancies and the jobs that are now emerging, matching needs to be improved. This is done by providing training opportunities and making it compulsory to participate in the training. The knowledge boost is reinforced with additional places, and training obligations are introduced into the establishment. In order to create more pathways to jobs for those furthest away from the labour market, the government also proposes simplified regulations by merging five subsidised forms of employment into one. It is a long-awaited change for many entrepreneurs and employers, as it is long awaited that we are now expanding growth support to small businesses that want to hire. Secondly, Sweden must have an equal school of knowledge. Creating a level playing field for all people is one of the most important tasks of policy. The first place where it becomes really clear that people shoes have different starting points is the school. In the budget, we are taking new steps to raise the knowledge results for everyone in school. In addition to the EUR 11 billion already invested in a more equal knowledge school, we want to further strengthen the school next year with the help of new resources, which are also weighted according to the pupils' conditions. This will strengthen the equivalence of schools and increase the opportunity for all children to develop their knowledge and skills regardless of their background or parents' level of education. Thirdly, prosperity must be strengthened. Then medical care comes first. In order to improve the human resources situation in healthcare and develop our operations, we increase resources from the state to health care by over SEK 5 billion. It is the largest healthcare investment in a very long time in Sweden. This means more resources for maternity care, for staff, for psychiatry and for efforts to make people get their care faster. Fourthly – and not least important – Sweden will stay together and everyone will benefit from economic development. We know what is happening in countries where gaps are allowed to increase. The country's families with children have, for the first time since 2006, strengthened the economy by raising child benefit, now by SEK 200 a month. The Government's proposal also improves the economic situation of people who have become ill and need rehabilitation to get back to work. The government is taking major steps towards eliminating the unfair tax gap between pensioners and wage earners, which the bourgeois government introduced. The government's proposal means that 75 per cent of the country's pensioners will receive reduced tax next year. In addition, the housing allowance is increased. These are important improvements in the financial situation of pensioners that we are going to vote on this afternoon. Those who have been involved in building Sweden, the Sweden that we are so proud of today, deserve both respect and a better economic situation. The policies implemented in the budget contribute to a more equitable and equitable distribution. The lower income groups win the most. It is something that we also know strengthens the economy and makes it grow faster. Fifthly, Sweden should be safe. When people are given good opportunities to do the right thing and make a living on their own pay, it becomes dramatically much more difficult for criminal gangs and other organised crime to find their recruits. But once crime occurs, of course, it should be attacked hard. There seems to be a broad majority in favour of this view in this House. More crimes will be prevented and cleared up. Reports of serious crimes should not be piled up. Criminal gangs must under no circumstances wreak havoc with impunity. Illegal weapons and drugs should not be introduced into Sweden. We will never accept acts that threaten our democratic society and fatten insecurity. The government's proposed investments in the police, security police and customs are fundamental to securing and developing the construction of society. Mr President, I would like to More jobs, an equal school, a stronger well-being, reduced gaps and a safer Sweden that stays together – the new economic situation will be used. We will equip Sweden's economy for worse times through debt amortisation while investing in the sustainable construction of society, not through tax cuts that benefit the few combined with reductions that affect the many. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-9675611e6eb05064-178	Mr President, I would like to "The escape from the moral police" – that was the title of a section of the Cold Facts six months ago. What does this have to do with a budget debate in Parliament? you can think. Everything, Mr President. It was a programme that showed how far the problems have gone in many Swedish areas. It was about a woman who lived in one of the suburbs here in Stockholm but who finally got out of her area despite her love and wanted to invest in that particular area. But in this area, the moral police held her back and many other women. This shows the integration problems we have in Sweden. They have grown for a long time, but they have grown during this government as well. I believe that integration problems are the most important issue any government has to resolve over the years to come. Therefore, in our budget we have an integration obligation that increases the demands on people to take part in what applies here, adapt to the Swedish labour market and learn the Swedish language. We lower the thresholds into the labour market with entry-level jobs and changed RUT. We have a major grant reform, which I mentioned in my speech, which is also about making demands for compensation – that more people should be active and be able to enter the Swedish labour market. However, in the government's budget the reforms shine with their absence in the question that is the most important for Swedish voters, and Swedish voters are not wrong. This issue, Mr President, will require structural, major, important reforms in the future. My question is simple: why does the government say no to all the proposals and reforms I have mentioned now? Although they will not fully solve integration problems, they can start to reverse developments. Why does the government say no to those proposals?
i-9675611e6eb05064-183	Mr President, I would like to Integration is, of course, an extremely important issue; we agree on that in most parties in this House. It is to a large extent about good housing, good school for the children and getting to work as quickly as possible. In order to do so, it is not uncommon that you also need to fill in more education and knowledge to get a job on the Swedish labour market, where many industries now experience a shortage of staff. The government has acted in this area in many different ways, but to jump into the environment where Elisabeth Svantesson was, I could describe some of the measures that have been implemented and are now being implemented. We have removed the custody allowance, which kept many – not least foreign-born – away from the labour market. This is an important signal: Women should be on the labour market in Sweden. We have changed parental insurance so that when you come to Sweden with children of pre-school age you can not be home for any time or the whole period. This is because we want people, not least women, to be on the labour market. We strengthen the education obligation in the establishment. So you should take the education you need to get into the Swedish labour market. We are also putting in early action for asylum seekers. Already during that period you should learn more about how Swedish society works and get an introduction to the Swedish language so that we do not lose time. These are clear, concrete measures that we are taking to give more people a chance to enter Swedish society. The only question is how to solve the major issues of housing, school and work by simply reducing taxes.
i-9675611e6eb05064-191	Mr President, I would like to Yes, the issues mentioned by Fredrik Olovsson are important to resolve. Unfortunately, the government does not do so in its budget either. Nevertheless, I would like to come back to some of the things mentioned by Fredrik Olovsson. These are things that we agree on, and many of them are things that we agreed on in the migration agreement that we concluded two years ago. But two years have passed, and much more needs to be done. I am pleased that the government has taken on board the education obligation that we proposed in 2015, but it will require much more. It will require sharper social information that all people who come to Sweden will receive. It must be mandatory for real, with a sample. It will be necessary for us to make higher demands for compensation. A major subsidy reform will be required, otherwise more and more people will end up in the dependency on grants where many already exist. I find it hard to understand why these issues are so difficult for the government. You also have to dare talk about values. We're not going to have moral police anywhere in Sweden. Women must be allowed to live freely here. When I meet women around Sweden who have come here from other countries, they often tell me that their relatives in the countries from which they come live more modern and more equal than they do in the suburbs. We can't have that. Housing is important. That's not enough construction subsidies. It's important to have a job. That's why the Alliance has suggestions for more jobs. We present entry jobs and extended RUT. What does the government present? Nothing at all. The conflict is not about education, Fredrik Olovsson. The conflict is about concrete reforms that are missing from this budget. It is a wasted boom, and the price for it will be extremely high in a few years' time.
i-9675611e6eb05064-197	Mr President, I would like to After all, the Moderates made sure to meet the increased reception of refugees during their second period of government by ensuring that there were a few municipalities, a few neighbourhoods in our big cities, that had to take full responsibility. Clearly, it was a historic failure to deal with migration policy in this way. It is good that we now have a system in which all municipalities must assume their responsibilities and in which the municipalities that have the best conditions must assume their responsibilities. It is an important structural change in how we deal with these issues. However, the cost of the policy pursued by Elisabeth Svantesson will be borne by us for years to come; there is no doubt about that. Then I see – and I feel a certain desire for it – that what we are facing now is a fairly extensive building of society. For a sosse, it's a lot of fun. We're going to build houses. We're gonna hire nurses. We're going to have more retirement homes. We're going to have more schools and preschools. We're going to invest more in railways. We will make society more robust and cope with the fact that we have grown. There are a huge number of opportunities here for people who today do not have a job, and they must take those opportunities – with education obligations but also with everything that Swedish society can offer for them to get started and be able to contribute. I think it is basically a positive challenge. But, of course, we cannot accept criminality, bad values or keeping women away from the public and the world of work. That is why, as I pointed out in my previous line shift, we are changing much of what Elisabeth Svantesson left behind when she left the government in 2014.
i-9675611e6eb05064-202	Mr President, I would like to Swedish industry and the Swedish forest industry are facing a fantastic investment wave – one as a result of new technology that is now becoming commercially viable. In short, we can say that everything we manufacture today from oil can be made from biomaterials, including Swedish forests. This will solve a great deal of what we are discussing here today politically. The Swedish forest can provide both new materials and the aviation fuel we will need to reset that part of the transport sector. These are fantastic opportunities for Sweden. It will create thousands of jobs and a multi-billion-dollar value added, and it is only one of the investments now planned in my own municipality of residence. I even have views from the farm over the place where you are thinking about investing. It will be one of the largest industrial investments made in Swedish industrial history. There are some threats to this, and Fredrik Olovsson has influence over them. Firstly, we must have clear rules for how we can use Sweden's green gold, the Swedish forest. Soon all the government that has been sitting since the 2014 elections has been about limiting, stopping and spreading uncertainty about how to use the forest raw material. If you ask the industrial players and investors who are now considering whether or not to go further, this is the key question: We do not know what the rules are for the Swedish forest. The second is about efficient transport. Many years ago, Finland offered the opportunity to drive heavier trucks than today. In Sweden this has been investigated. Despite the fact that Parliament's majorities have decided on this during this term of office, the government sits and does nothing. What are you going to do about this, Fredrik Olovsson?
i-9675611e6eb05064-207	Mr President, I would like to I share Källström's views. I think it is important for the business community in Sweden to have long-term rules of play. That is also one reason why we Social Democrats often think that cross-block solutions and agreements are important. This applies in a variety of areas. This can be about energy policy, for example, but also about more specific issues, such as forestry policy in this case. We do not have any proposals in this budget that affect what Mr Källström is raising. On the other hand, we have many other important investments in infrastructure in order to get better order on our railways and other things that are important to carry out the products of this industry later in the process; first, of course, they go on lorries. But I think that the area Källström addresses shows precisely the need to work together and can agree across block borders and get long-term solutions for Swedish industry. I could say the same when it comes, for example, to energy policy, which plays a major role in my part of Sweden having received two major investments in computer halls from major international players. This is exactly the same thing: we have more to do here, and I think we could agree on that.
i-9675611e6eb05064-211	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Olovsson says that you do not have this in the budget, and that is the problem. Too little is happening, and that is why I am raising the issue. Then Fredrik Olovsson goes on and wants agreements in this area. Firstly, with regard to more efficient infrastructure, there is no need for agreements. We have already made the decision several times here in Parliament, but the government does not act accordingly. The problem is not here in Parliament; it is in Rosenbad. When it comes to agreements on forest use, and so on, we sit here waiting. The government has been talking about a forest program for years. It would come last spring and spring before, I think. The last thing we hear from responsible ministers is that it may come this spring. This is, in many respects, a lost term of office, and it means that investments are not made and jobs are not put in place. In this debate, I represent, among other things, the rural peoples of Sweden. Firstly, socialist politicians have put a straitjacket on some of our main industries. We are the best in Europe and the world at regulating green industries. Secondly, socialist politicians and officials have banned construction along beaches, streams and so on. We have made political decisions that mean that development power around the country is being hampered by the worst. And now there are – hence my outrage – ongoing processes aimed at reducing ownership rights and reducing the opportunities to use perhaps the most important resource for the development of the whole country, namely the forest that has given the Swedish welfare. It is indecent and unreasonable! We sit here and want to get along, but the problem lies with the Social Democrats and the Green Party. You're the one who has to change your mind.
i-9675611e6eb05064-217	Mr President, I would like to It is, of course, after eight years of government very easy to say that what was not done then should be done immediately by whoever comes after. I do not think it is really a very fruitful attitude. Clearly, there are things that take time to get in place, such as better infrastructure. But now Källström himself raised the issue of the whole country. This is a clear example where we can do things for the whole country: make sure that there is government presence everywhere and not, like Källström and the Center Party, cut down on municipalities and county councils around the country. The battle gets extra hard not least in the areas where there may be a little fewer. So I think there is a reason to actually think about what you have carried with you for eight years in government and what is now on Parliament's table in the form of cuts and poorer conditions for municipalities throughout the country.
i-9675611e6eb05064-220	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the Christian Democrats' reservations Nos 5 and 10, so that Fredrik Olovsson and others have the chance to vote on the Christian Democratic alternative. In his speech, Fredrik Olovsson mentioned that the government tightened up employment policy. This can be read in two ways: to sharpen it for the better or to tighten, worsen, and sharpen in different ways. It's not that easy to know, I think. I really have a question. The government – the Social Democrats and the Green Party – believes that there is room for reform of over 40 billion. Yet it does not remove the special wage tax for older workers that it introduced at the time of its entry. There are times when you need to raise taxes that are inappropriate to raise. It may be necessary to do so in direct polemics against all the expert authorities who say that this is a highly inappropriate tax to increase because it reduces the employment of a group who retires instead of remaining and contributing their experience and skills to the labour market. You may need to do so; you may have different views on this. But when you have a reform space of over 40 billion and it costs in the order of 11⁄2 to remove this tax, you choose not to. If you do not, and at the same time you say that you are tightening up employment policy, it is very strange in my ears. I am grateful if Fredrik Olovsson can explain to me how this is connected.
i-9675611e6eb05064-225	Mr President, I would like to There are very strong economic reasons and incentives for those who are older and have the opportunity to continue working to do so. It is also too many very fun to work. We also see this in the employment of the elderly in particular; it is increasing sharply, according to the latest studies we have seen. I think it is proof that the policies that are now in place are working well to get people to continue working. Then we need to do more so that more groups get the same opportunity and perhaps the same joy in continuing to work but not worn out prematurely on their job. There, I think we have very big things to do. But just as I said in the line with Elisabeth Svantesson, we are tightening up employment policy in many different ways. One is what I mentioned, namely that we have abolished the custody allowance, which, above all, ensured that many foreign-born women did not enter the labour market, and short-term parental insurance. We have also made more efforts for education and searching, so that foreign-born women now will take the chance that exists in Swedish society, acquire skills and become painters, floor-layers or nurses. But that way the Christian Democrats do not choose. Instead, you want to introduce a new custody allowance, which you have renamed: 6,000 kroner a month not to work. You can't build a job policy like that.
i-9675611e6eb05064-229	Mr President, I would like to This is absolutely fascinating. I ask a question about special salary tax for the elderly, and Fredrik Olovsson starts talking about the custody allowance. This is not the case for this particular group, in most cases. It is right that we think that people should have increased opportunities to choose more time with children when they are young. We'll make it possible until the baby's third birthday. It is reasonable that this possibility exists. It's being used pretty little. It was also used quite a bit by the group that Fredrik Olovsson here claims to be vurma for, namely people of foreign origin who come to Sweden. But it is important that the choice exists, because there are children where preschool doesn't work. They may be allergic or have other reasons for needing more time with their parents. I think it is reasonable for there to be a small mini-support for this. My question to Fredrik Olovsson was about all the consultation bodies and expert authorities who say that it is a terrible job policy to pay a special salary tax on the elderly who work. This makes it more difficult for all the municipalities that need experienced social secretaries, doctors, nurses or teachers at a time when Sweden has a little growing pain. Those who could take advantage of this competence will receive an additional charge. All companies would need the skills of their companies get an extra charge compared to how it was before. Fredrik Olovsson's answer is that it is fun to work. Yeah, so do I. It's fun to work, and a lot of people will get the chance to do it. But that reasoning makes it sound as though economic drivers do not matter. They played a huge role in the development of older people who work when this was abolished. It played a huge role with double job tax deductions, so that more people see that it pays better to work further up the age group. So the question remains. It's not enough to say it's fun to work. You can add as much burden as long as it's fun to work, but it won't work as a policy. It has not worked, and it will not work.
i-9675611e6eb05064-235	Mr President, I would like to I think Jakob Forssmed deliberately misunderstood what I said. I said that today there are very strong driving forces for older people to continue working. A lot of older people also continue to work further up the age range. It had a very strong impact on employment in that particular group. Just a few months ago, there were figures showing that it is increasing sharply. I don't know if Jakob Forssmed has missed it. Another group where we need to increase employment and employment rates are women born abroad. Therefore, I think it was highly relevant to also mention how it might be that Jakob Forssmed there has a completely different view. There he wants to introduce custody allowance, which keeps women away from the labour market. It is of course this that risks being the effect, not least if it is the way Elisabeth Svantesson pointed out, that there are structures and values that lead to people thinking that it is good that women do not work. Then the Christian Democrats throw out a worm of 6,000 kronor a month to stay home longer with the children. I think it's a destructive policy. We are tightening up employment policies in all areas and ensuring that those who are now far from the labour market get closer, so that those who have an education and skills that need to be supplemented get the opportunity and that those who are older and perhaps have come to Sweden in adulthood, who have little chance of assimilation and becoming productive quickly, can also get a job – a more sub-vention-on-work. In a wide range of areas, we are thus tightening up employment policy, because our view is that in Sweden you should work if you can. That is what our welfare is based on.
i-9675611e6eb05064-238	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Olovsson spoke in his speech about what bourgeois governments leave behind. One thing we left behind from the government in 1991-1994 was LSS, the right to personal assistance for people with different disabilities. In the past, families had had to take enormous responsibility for children and others who had difficulties on their own. More recently, after Fredrik Olovsson's government efforts, we see examples of how people are hit again. Several of these have been read in the media. Selma can't walk. She can't move her arms or legs. She can't talk, and she can't eat on her own. Her personal assistance has been suspended. Now the family can do this. Elvira was born with severe brain damage. She cannot do anything herself and is also blind. Her personal assistance has been suspended. Simon was also born with severe brain damage. He needs help with everything in his life. His personal assistance has been withdrawn. This is the legacy that this Social Democratic Government will leave if you do not do something about it very quickly. Why have you done this, Fredrik Olovsson, and why do you allow these children to be treated this way? Why should their families do all this work and not get any assistance in this?
i-9675611e6eb05064-243	Mr President, I would like to This is, of course, a very difficult and difficult situation for many individuals and families. It is linked to the rulings we have received from the Supreme Administrative Court. When we took office, we saw that this was an area where we would have to change the legislation. We also set up an investigation to be completed next year. In the meantime, there have also been other judgments that have made the issue of assistance very topical. These are people who lose their remuneration or who can no longer receive compensation for the entire operation, so that it has to be hacked up into small parts. In this area, the government has chosen to move forward more quickly and come to a situation where the old interpretation of the law will continue to apply. But those who find themselves in difficult situations should not be left alone. We have a network of security for people who are more comprehensive than that. We also have other legislation, the Social Services Act, which allows you to get the help you need but in a different way. It is usually not the best thing for the individual, and therefore it is important that this whole team complex is reviewed, so that we do not have to have the worrying situation that it means that a ruling in the Supreme Administrative Court can completely change the conditions again. That is why this must be done with a certain amount of seriosity as well.
i-9675611e6eb05064-246	Mr President, I would like to I think it is dangerous land to blame the courts in this case. Of course, there are judgments that affect this and have affected some people. What has been striking during this parliamentary term is the tightening-up of the Social Democrats in this area and their total unwillingness to do anything to help these people. Let's see what happens. It's happening now. I took three examples of young children. There is a huge amount of people who are affected. Now you have a temporary stop here, but it does not help those who have already suffered this. The whole focus on politics is that this area should be tightened up and that money should be saved here. You spend 40 billion and spend money on every group in society, except these very people, who need help better than any other, because they cannot live without that help. Actually, they can't live without that help. Of course, you can let it all fall on the municipalities if you now think they should do it instead. But that is certainly not a better solution. The system that we have, which the bourgeois government left behind and which has previously been supported by the Social Democrats, I believe is the system that should continue to work. The investigation that Fredrik Olovsson is talking about will be presented one month after the election. You don't have to be very cynical to guess if it's going to have a direction that makes it better or worse for these people.
i-9675611e6eb05064-250	Mr President, I would like to After all, state aid will not be cheaper for the state during this term of office. It will cost a few billion more during this term of office. So there is no saving in the budget, as Mathias Sundin is trying to claim. Then you can't just ignore the verdicts of the Supreme Administrative Court. They affect the entire application of the law in Försäkringskassan's assessments. That is what triggers the whole new assessment that is being made. It is, of course, extremely important that we now change the legislation and make the assistance work properly, so that the people who need it get it and so that the assistance they receive is also of the quality that it should have. It is about really getting the help and support that you should have, which has not always been the case. It is also important that we at the same time deal with the cheating and overuse that has been linked to the LSS. It is very important for the legitimacy of the system that we can get things right. Now the government has presented several measures for peace and quiet and for it to be better for those people who have been worried that they will lose their assistance. We had a debate earlier this week in which Minister Regnér explained in detail how this is to be done. I think it's very good. Then we get to work on getting the assistance as a whole to work better. In this area of welfare, however, the government is therefore pushing for 2 billion more this term of office. Of course, this is something that Mathias Sundin knows deep down. He knows it's like that.
i-9675611e6eb05064-255	Mr President, I would like to With the Green Party in the government, we are building society in the ground. The most important foundations of green society – the environment, school and jobs – are given the resources and reforms needed. If we don't change now, the bill will end up with our children and grandchildren. It would not be a good policy for the future. During this term of office, the government has implemented historically very green policies. It is with pride that we have presented the largest environmental budget ever, with investments in the sun, the sea, forests, electric bicycles, air taxes, charging poles and industry. It is an effort to make environmentally good cars better than environmentally bad cars and more. Since the last time we met in this Chamber, at the end of September, the extreme storm has set southern Europe on fire. Heavy storms have taken several lives in northern Germany and devastated several cities in the Caribbean and the United States. No one can turn a blind eye to the impact of climate change anymore. We must all do our utmost to put an end to this development – and it is now. The climate is the great destiny of our time. It is positive that more and more people are beginning to realize and talk about it. Last week, world leaders met at the Bonn climate summit. It announced that global carbon dioxide emissions have remained stable since 2014, but are expected to rise by 2%. It is a development in the completely wrong direction. It is becoming increasingly clear that the climate cannot wait without us having to take action now. To achieve the goal of becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country, we are now taking a holistic approach to the climate disaster that everyone is talking about. We are an international leader in the field of climate change by taking responsibility for our emissions at home and showing the way so that more countries can follow suit, so that we reach our global environmental goals. Our environmental offensive efforts are long-term and assume that our children and grandchildren will have good future living conditions. We take advantage of the will and the good power of people who want to make a difference. There is a cure for climate anxiety, and it is the power of action. In the climate category, we offer people to actively participate in the climate transition, for example by putting solar cells on their roofs or charging the car at home. In our offshore offensive, we invest heavily in the Baltic Sea and ensure that there is no more plastic than fish in the sea in 30 years' time. And we make sure that the fish don't poison our bodies and disrupt our hormone systems. We need to get rolling on the electric vehicle market, so that more people can travel environmentally friendly. Since we last met in this House at the end of September, and, among other things, presented the electric vehicle premium, the sales of electric bicycles have increased by up to 400% in some suppliers. The electric bike has just been named Christmas present of the year. We need to switch emissions from industry in the long term, and we do so through an industrial leap. We simply need a policy that takes challenges seriously. We have, and we are now acting. However, since we last gathered in this House at the end of September, several species of animals have been exterminated from our earth. Right now, the sixth stage of the mass extinction of species on earth is under way, the only one since man began to live here. Biodiversity has never been more threatened, but there is still much to be saved. By changing our forestry, agriculture and fisheries in a more sustainable direction, we can preserve our animal and plant species. This is not enough. It is with pride that I can say that the government is making great efforts even outside Sweden's borders. We have presented the largest aid budget ever for Sweden. It is necessary, because today 135 million people in the world are in great need of humanitarian aid. Climate change affects the poorest. The oppression of women and girls continues. The scope for human rights and democracy is shrinking in many places. Mr President, I would like to I'm a feminist. The environmental party is a feminist party, and Sweden is governed by a feminist government. We are also an international feminist role model in gender equality policy, and that is how it should be. The government invests in more jobs for foreign-born women, on grants for single parents, on more money for maternity care, on free mammography, on girls and boys having the same conditions in school, on more money to combat mental illness and on a new gender equality authority. With our policies, the economic gaps between women and men are narrowing. More resources go to women's health, which is so often neglected in patriarchal society, where men are the norm. In a welfare country such as Sweden, it is totally unacceptable that women who are expecting a child should worry about their births and whether they will be accommodated at BB, suffer from birth defects or get help and support from healthcare professionals. This is why the government is pushing for 5 billion over five years to secure maternity care, increase staff density and improve the working environment for one of our most important professions: midwives. It is no news that women are more affected than men by mental illness, especially young women. Women can't and shouldn't have to know everything. There are four times as many women as men who are on sick leave for stress-related diseases. Now we see that girls burn themselves out already in high school. It is therefore important that psychiatry and social care for children and young people now receive extra money, so that support and early intervention can be given, in particular, to women, children and young people. Mr President, I would like to Since we met in this House at the end of September, unemployment has continued to fall. The economy is stronger than it has been for a very long time, and we have turned deficits into surpluses in central government finances. That's good. It gives us the tools to meet the climate and environmental challenges, and it gives us a responsibility to invest. We have already begun the green transition process, which will lead to new jobs in green industries. We are making efforts so that even more of those who are furthest from the labour market – for example, foreign born, new arrivals and young people – come to work. We also have technical challenges that need to be addressed, where green sustainable innovations will be crucial. Since we met in the Chamber at the end of September, Swedish high school students have proved to be the best on social and democratic issues. We should be very proud of this, because it is at school that we lay the foundations for a democratic society based on respect for human rights and equality. At the same time, we have been told that inequality is growing in the Swedish school. The government is therefore investing 6 billion to make the school more equal. The school should give all students the same chance, no matter where they come from or what parents they have. Then it is crucial that the resources are allocated more carefully and that the schools that have the toughest get more money – there they make the most difference. More time must be given to students and less for paperwork. The government also strengthens student health and provides increased resources to the important special education. We invest in a read-write-count guarantee for all children to bring with them the skills they need in life. They're entitled to that. We very much hope that the other parties in Parliament will listen to those affected by this important reform. Mr President, I would like to Since the last time we met in this House, several young people who came as unaccompanied minors to Sweden in 2015 have become 18 years old. For many young people, the 18th anniversary is something to be desired, something to look forward to. But for these young people, the 18th anniversary is more anxious, and the worry is that you should be forced to break up from everything you've rooted in. We in the Green Party are working hard to ensure that the children and young people who came here on their own in 2015 will have a safer and better life in Sweden. The government also spends additional resources on care for unaccompanied minors who suffer from mental illness and on being able to stay and live their lives in the municipalities where they have rooted, even after they turn 18. We are also making arrangements for more families to be reunited. As I said, there is every reason to be concerned about climate change and fear of the dark forces that are pulling in the wrong direction in our world. Increased emissions, endangered species and undemocratic world leaders are nothing to take lightly. We must not, however, become passive or give up. The climate is not waiting, but we must act now. With a strong green party in the Swedish government that ensures that both the environment and people are well, we can expect responsibility to be taken and the reforms that have long had to be started at last. Only then can we have the sustainable future we all wish for our children and grandchildren. I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-9675611e6eb05064-279	Mr President, I would like to When I take a line on Janine Alm Ericson, I always give some praise too, and I think that there is reason to do so even today. As far as aid is concerned, I think it is excellent that we continue with the principle of allocating 1% of GNP, also according to the new method of calculation. We have a trend in the world that people are increasingly looking at their own and taking less responsibility across national borders. This is a very worrying trend, and I think it is excellent that the government adheres to the principle that the Alliance also maintained during the eight years that we ruled. Janine Alm Ericson boasts of the largest environmental budget. I think that's it. But, unfortunately, the biggest is not the best. The Institute of Economics writes the following in response to the Government's environmental efforts: For other investments, the Konjunkturinstitutet considers that there is no motive or that it is doubtful whether the investments will actually have the intended effect. ..................................................... It then reviews some of the efforts that Alm Ericson is talking about in his speech. If the climate is said this way, the climate can bring forward effective measures, but can also involve costly investments in measures that are likely to be implemented anyway. ..................................................... When it comes to Industriklivet it is written that the above-mentioned problems of the Climate Klivet are also here. – – – The aid therefore does not lead to lower total emissions. ..................................................... That's what the Conjuncture Institute writes. On support for solar cells, it is stated that the principle of cost-effectiveness is not respected and should be abolished instead of increased. This is how action after action can be continued. That is why my question is: now that you are presenting such a large environmental budget, why are you proposing such ineffective environmental measures?
i-9675611e6eb05064-286	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jakob Forssmed, for agreeing that it is important to have a great deal of international aid and that we need to think about all the people who do not live here and do it better around the world with the small but still important resources that we have. There too, the opportunity to be a forerunner in environmental and climate policy is an extremely important element. Of course, you can choose to just listen to the Konjunkturinstitutet. I am also looking forward to your doing so with regard to, for example, increased CO2 taxes, which they are very much in favour of. However, there are other bodies that are also involved in environmental policy, and in the vast majority of international rankings – most recently Germanwatch last week or last week – Sweden is at the very top in terms of climate and environmental policy in order to achieve the very important goals that it has actually undertaken internationally and that we have agreed on here. This constant repetition that we would just throw money in all directions, I am really against. We need a strong and effective environmental policy. It delivers the government, but not powerful enough t. We see that we have to do more. However, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency says, for example, that with the climate policy that the government now has, we will achieve our goals. With the one the Alliance left behind, we had a gap of 4 million tons. It says a little about the effectiveness of our various environmental proposals.
i-9675611e6eb05064-290	Mr President, I would like to It is absolutely excellent that Alm Ericson should address CO2 taxation, because in these parts we support the government's policy. In addition, we are removing some exemptions that exist with regard to CO2 taxation, which you are not doing. So we have a sharper policy on CO2 taxation than the government has, and we use this to lower the tax on labour. We have a real green tax shift in our budget, and that makes me proud and happy. I think it is a concern that we do not want to make the most effective environmental measures. I, like Alm Ericson, believe that we need to use the tax instrument, with taxes and charges, to get rid of some of those things and steer better towards, for example, recycled textiles. That is something that we can work more with instead of these a little more inefficient, a little more hesitant measures. Let's talk about the e-bike premium. Cycling is incredibly good and important, not least when it comes to getting more children to cycle. Instead, in our budget, we take every penny that you put on this Christmas gift premium for people who buy this year's Christmas gift – often quite well-off people who can afford to buy these electric bicycles – and we spend the money on bicycle infrastructure so that everyone who bikes, including us who bikes by analogy, gets a share of them. That is the public's mission: to ensure that cycling is possible, that it is straight and straight, to build on a basic standard and to ensure that it is safe and secure to get to school for our children. We will not put a subsidy on these products so that those who stand and choose between a regular bike and an electric bike will get a push from the state: Here you go, here you have 10 000 crowns if you choose the one that gives you something less exercise than the other bike! It is not a wise policy with our limited resources, Mr President.
i-9675611e6eb05064-296	Mr President, I would like to It is very gratifying to hear that the Christian Democrats are also in favour of higher carbon taxes, for example. After all, it remains to be seen how much will result from it when you sit down with other political parties in this House where some people do not even think that we should have a petrol tax to the extent that we have today. I welcome it, and I look forward to that work, because, as I said in the speaker's chair, the environmental and climate challenge is the greatest, and we really need to work on it together. It is also very good that there are many of us who want a green tax exchange. We may finally see the tax reform that Mathias Sundin also talked about. When it comes to investments in cycling, I think we are extremely in agreement. The cycling infrastructure must be expanded. We have already made sure that there will also be an infrastructure plan for cycling in the Västra Götaland region, where I worked, and now it will be at national level. We would like people to cycle by analogy, because we know that it is very important for children and public health at all, but the premium for lighter electric vehicles is not about whether people should choose a bicycle or an electric bicycle. Instead, it is a question of whether you should be able to set the car and instead take the bike. The electric bike makes it possible to cycle much longer, although I know that there are many involved cyclists here in Stockholm and elsewhere who bike very far analogly. That is, of course, a good thing, but we want to get more people to do that change. We need more people to choose other means of transport than the car, because although we are now making a huge effort to bring in other fuels, electric cars and such things, we still have to reduce motorism and increase other ways of travelling. We want to make that possible.
i-9675611e6eb05064-301	Mr President, I would like to I am sometimes struck by the suspicion, and I think it applies to all the sane people, that in fact is the time we live in some kind of satire or more or less sick joke, because there is a lot going on in our present time that makes you think: Is this pruned out of reason or not? And it is concluded that no, it is not of reasonableness. One of the very long list of things that are happening in our present time is when the spearhead of a government of more or less socialistly colored parties is to make expensive electric bicycles a little less expensive for the upper middle class that is considering consuming them. Here I can largely agree with Jakob Forssmed's arguments earlier, that if you want to change society from this particular part of our transport, there are far more effective and wise measures that many more can take part in. This brings me to my main point – this discussion has taken place several times between me and Janine Alm Ericson – namely how we regain the position we had during the alliance government, that we combine economic development with reduced emissions. Emissions decreased when we were in the government, now they're increasing. It is bad for Sweden and bad for the world. Unfortunately, it is not another budget of placard politics or things that look good in press release form that will solve this, but we must return to the basic conditions. Has the Green Party completely given up here or is there still some form of common ground in terms of fundamental green tax exchange, fundamental right policy?
i-9675611e6eb05064-306	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. As far as who is seeking placard politics through press releases is concerned, I think that the Center Party also has a lot to answer to. Many of the proposals that have now been put forward as alternatives to the government, which I explained to Jakob Forssmed, actually workable proposals are things that we ourselves know cannot be implemented. Some of them run counter to EU policy, not just in what the Institute of Economic Affairs mentioned and to which Jakob Forssmed referred, and will not actually be able to implement. We will have to come back to that. When it comes to much more effective measures for more people, I do not go into how we want people to choose other modes of transport than petrol-drilling cars, because I went through that with Jakob Forssmed, and I think Emil Källström heard that. But we also do many effective things on the car side. We have a change of fuel and we have a bonus – the Malus system, which the Center Party talked about throughout the last parliamentary term that it wanted to introduce but then did not do. Now there is a reformed proposal which will be very expensive and undermine itself, all the financial investigations show. I would still like to say that there is a great deal of reasonableness in the government's environmental and climate policy, given how much support it receives. It is then serious, as Emil Källström points out, that emissions are increasing. We need to get rid of them. But we are not doing this by standing here and hitting each other in the head, but we are doing so through an effective policy in the field of transport and through better environmental development on, for example, housing construction. We must ensure that all the sectors that we need, housing and transport, are sustainable.
i-9675611e6eb05064-310	Madam President, I would like Imagine, then, that there was a point in having basically the same change of line during all the budget debates of a whole parliamentary term! The last thing Janine Alm Ericson said here was marked by all the wisdom you can demand from a party that calls itself the Green Party. But that's exactly what this government hasn't delivered. Despite talk of green tax shifting, taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship have been increased many more times than they have increased environmental taxes. The combination of the Alliance of High Economic Growth and Reduction of Emissions has gone from its opposite. However, it is not particularly the efforts that Janine Alm Ericson devoted her speech to talking about that will deliver the solutions, but to have the basic right incentives for green conversion through green tax exchange. Another thing I have learned during the day, and as you and I have discussed before, is that we must have the right conditions for the green conversion that is taking place through industrial investment for new ways of developing the products we can. Then it is not good enough to have a policy that aims to stop using, for example, the Swedish forest raw material. Then it is not good enough to have a policy that does not solve infrastructure challenges in terms of heavier transport and the like. We need to switch effectively from doing what we are doing today with oil to using sustainable materials. In this respect, I note, as in the past, that the government and the Green Party are going in the wrong direction. If you get what you want, we will use less of one of the world's best and most sustainable raw materials, namely the Swedish forest.
i-9675611e6eb05064-312	Madam President, I would like It is great, as I said, that there are several of us talking about green tax exchange here and that there is a great willingness to do so. But the fact of the Center Party on the matter is that the government of 2006 ended the green tax exchange that the government had previously had. It included effective tax resources for the phasing-out of oil boilers and others. We will have to come back, and I hope that we will arrive at a good joint result. In the environmental and climate policy that we have now, I think we need both carrots and whips. It is the whole building-up in bonuses – the Malus system, which we then had, as well as the principle that the emitter should pay. It is good that we agree that we need industrial investment. After all, it sounded here that the Christian Democrats are not so much for, for example, the Industriklivet, which is extremely unfortunate. If a large industry that emits a lot of carbon dioxide says that we need to help each other in order to find new methods, you want to turn your back on it. When it comes to biofuels, we are both in agreement and not entirely in agreement, as also emerged in our previous replica, because biofuels are of course a hugely important future for Sweden and for the development of this market. But we will not be able to take out such quantities as we now think. We believe that industrial forest production must also be combined with protected areas to protect biodiversity. Biodiversity is today the most over-traded area, where we are therefore the worst. It is a problem that the Center Party completely ignores, and I find that very unfortunate.
i-9675611e6eb05064-318	Madam President, I would like I have just one question for the Green Party representative: where does the Green Party really stand on the issue of stricter amortisation requirements? The reason why I am asking it is not, regardless of what the Green Party is saying here today, that I want to discuss the issue in itself, but that it is important for households and voters to know on such a large and central issue, because different answers have been given to this day. When we and the other alliance parties expressed doubts as to whether it is the right time to tighten up the amortisation requirement at the moment, the Minister for the Financial Market gave rather severe criticism of our hesitation and called us irresponsible. At the same time, another environmental party minister expressed the same doubts as the four parties of the Alliance, so we have received two different messages from the central ministers on this issue, and that raises problems. Therefore, I would like to repeat the question to Janine and hope to have a straight and concrete answer: where is the Green Party on the issue of a stricter amortisation requirement?
i-6hHWa3R5nh987wU6sCDftE	Madam President, I would like Welcome, Elisabeth Svantesson, to us in the committee! I would like to start by saying that the issue of amortisation requirements has been commuting back and forth for quite a long time. Quite a short time ago, we heard from the representatives of the Alliance that there were enormous threats to financial stability, that household indebtedness, which has been warned by the OECD among others, was far too high and that something had to be done. I still believe that this analysis is right, but now I hear that one suddenly does not think that household indebtedness and financial stability are so important, but rather that we should think about completely different things. This is an issue in which it is important to get right. Politics has been working for a long time to find solutions in this area. Had the Green Party had the choice, we would have liked to have reduced interest deductions in a well-defined and well-agreed stairway so that households could know what applies. With the high level of debt that exists today, many will have major problems when interest rates start to rise, and even more so. Having said that, I am not a press secretary to any of our ministers and cannot really answer why they have gone out as they have done. Nor will I give any information as to what will be the government's position on this issue. It is currently being prepared at the Government Office – the usual boring answer – and unfortunately I have to ask Elisabeth Svantesson to float in uncertainty for a little while longer. But my personal opinion is that we need to be very careful about the current loan situation.
i-9675611e6eb05064-324	Madam President, I would like This is interesting. Now I get a third message from an environmental party, and not just any environmental party without the economic-political spokesperson in Parliament. I don't want to be ascribed to opinions that I don't have. For me, it is incredibly important that we safeguard financial stability and that we put the housing market in order. This is my point and that of the Moderates on this issue. We need a holistic approach to remedy the imbalances that exist. We say that at this point, with this particular timing, there are doubts. We have not said no forever to a stricter amortisation requirement. On the other hand, we are calling for the government to invite us to have broader talks where we can put all the questions on the table, including the one mentioned by Janine Alm Ericson. My question is only about the simple – where the Green Party stands. It must nevertheless be the case that the ministers I mentioned, who represent the government but also the Green Party, and Janine Alm Ericson have spoken together. It's not usually that hard to get the Green Party to tell you what you think on various issues. It was done just now about the unaccompanied. Again, what is the Green Party's response to the stricter amortisation requirement?
i-9675611e6eb05064-329	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased to hear that the Moderates still care about financial stability. In truth, I had not thought otherwise. But in the recent debate, it has sounded a little different. You put other things in the balance that you think is more important. The thing about the construction now and the proposal that Finansinspektionen has put forward is that it is not a proposal where they have just put a damp finger in the air and decided that they will raise the amortisations a little bit more. It is a well-founded proposal from the body to which we have decided to place responsibility for financial stability in Sweden. When they present a proposal to the government – the first after the new regulatory framework has come into place – it seems strange when you immediately say that you should not do that. I have great confidence in the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and that their assessments are right and that they do not, of course, take in any harder than is necessary. After all, no one wants large falls in prices on the housing market or any bubble to burst. But there is much to suggest that there is no bubble, and now prices are falling. It may be because of the things we have done in the area of loans to reduce household indebtedness, because high indebtedness makes you extremely vulnerable. This may also be due to the fact that a great deal is actually built historically in Sweden today. When there is a large supply, prices fall. I hope that this will not be interpreted as a third message. I have full confidence in Finansinspektionen's handling of this issue.
i-9675611e6eb05064-333	Madam President, I would like Inequality is increasingly evident in our society, from those who have it the hardest and who are begging for a small price or looking for pawn cans in our trash baskets to those who live in abundance, who buy helicopters for pleasure or who go on expensive trips abroad several times a year. It is a Sweden that is being pulled apart. For the Left Party, our budget cooperation with the government is about getting a fairer Sweden. We saw the increase in inequality during the time of the bourgeois government. For eight years we had the first place in the EU as the country that is most socially fair, according to a survey by German Bertelsmann. Now Denmark has overtaken us. When you read the financial plan you can clearly see that it is those who have the least get the most now. This reduces inequality in our society. At the same time, we know that it is not enough. The rich are still pulling away, as our tax system is rigged for them. We in the Left Party have got through many important and good reforms in the budget – reforms that will make a difference to a great many people, and equality reforms that primarily benefit women and strengthen welfare. Such things are done with us but not with bourgeois parties. However, there is one area in which we do not reach the government: in fiscal policy bourgeois distribution policy remains in virtually undisputed nests. Here the gap has grown fastest in recent decades, and the main reason for this is that capital income has increased sharply. According to SCB, property income was SEK 340 billion, of which 85 per cent went to the richest tenth with the highest income. They earned as much from income from capital as from labour and entrepreneurship. There will therefore be a great difference if the government cooperates with us in the Left Party or with bourgeois parties. We will always see inequality as the great danger that needs to be combated. The bourgeois parties will always want to lower wages, raise rents, attack labour law or play a business in welfare. Madam President, I would like Inequality is visible on maps – on the Swedish map and on the city bus map. The money is located in the centre, in the big cities and in the city centres. At the same time, the countryside, the mill resorts and the working-class parts are chopping for the spirit. Of the ten richest municipalities in Sweden, there are eight in Stockholm County. All ten poorest municipalities are located in rural areas. But even in our big cities there are huge gaps. Between the end stops in the Stockholm metro, it differs several years in life expectancy. The betrayed parts of Sweden have one thing in common. It is when market forces are given free leeway that shops are closed and jobs disappear. The market only asks how many people can pay. The resources will then be drawn to the centre. But left-wing politics is about setting priorities other than the market. Politics is supposed to be counter-force. Instead, the last decade has often been the first to leave the countryside and suburbs to their fate. The most important tool for meeting the differences that exist is the conditions in different municipalities. Therefore, they are fair emigrating to the betrayed Sweden that the Left Party has pushed through an important reform. This is a multi-billion-dollar initiative that will affect many mills, sparsely populated municipalities, districts and suburbs around Sweden. The money comes to municipalities and areas characterised by high unemployment, low levels of education and low voting turnout. How the money is spent will be different in different places, but efforts for jobs, education, service, leisure and social work will be central. Sweden should be a country that holds together. Our common wealth is created by the resources of the whole country and the work of the whole country. Then shall the fruits of this labour also be distributed to the whole land. One should be able to trust that the welfare society works regardless of where one lives, and the distance from the centre of big cities should not determine how strong the welfare is. Public service shall not be governed by market logic and shall be based solely on demand. That's why we invest 1 billion in maternity care in Sweden, because we see how the distances to BB are getting longer in the north while the space shortage is large in our larger cities. Therefore, we want to ensure that there is good service throughout Sweden. That is why farmers are now receiving permanent operating aid where resources are doubled. Driving licences should not be a class question. Today it costs everything between 20 000 and 30 000 SEK to get a licence. It is expensive if the economy is scarce. At the same time, driving licences are often an enabler both to get a job and to get to work. It is therefore important that everyone who wants to take a driving licence should have the opportunity to do so. That is why the Left Party has now pushed through that it should be able to take CSN loans to get a driving licence. Now it's finally possible. In the first step, it is about those who are unemployed, and in the next step it is about all young people. It is an excellent example of how our welfare society can actually develop. But it is not the only initiative that the Left Party has to benefit young people. Efforts to improve child education, free public transport for young people and increased student funding are other examples of good reforms. Madam President, I would like When I was a kid, I couldn't swim. It was only when I was ten years old that I learned to swim. As a result, I could not dive or jump from the diving tower like other children. Both me and my parents were pretty worried if I fell into the water, like that time at Lurö. To this day, my swimming technique is far from perfect. But at least I float and go forward as I swim. Thanks to the Left Party, all preschool children now receive free swimming school. I hope that will lead to more children learning to swim when they are young, both for their own sake and for their parents' sake. While bourgeois parties care most about those who earn the most, we care about those who have the hardest financial situation – about the sick, pensioners, single parents, people with disabilities and the unemployed. We know that getting poorer makes no one healthier or more able to work. That's why the Left Party makes a difference here and now. We increase maintenance allowance, increase sickness and activity benefit, lower taxes for pensioners and for people with sickness and activity benefit, increase sickness benefit, increase housing allowance and introduce statutory habilitation allowance for those with disabilities. Improving unemployment insurance is an important change in order to increase security in the labour market. With this budget, we reintroduce the tax reduction for the unemployment fund and reduce the number of days of withdrawal to qualify for the unemployment benefit. A new Agency for Safety and Health at Work is started in Gävle, and the country's anti-discrimination agencies receive more money. We invest in mental health and psychiatry, we strengthen the efforts of social services to children and young people who suffer from ill health, we invest in child health care and we give a billion to maternity care. We invest in better dental care for all and free cell tests for cervical cancer screening. That's how we build up and improve welfare. At the same time, we are making it better for the health care staff through a targeted effort to improve the working environment for them. We increase the assistance compensation for those who have personal assistance, although we are far from satisfied with how the government has managed the right to a good life for people with disabilities and thereby their right to personal assistance. The Left Party has asked the Swedish Parliament's investigation service, RUT, for help in developing distribution policy effects of the respective shadow budget. It's a dark reading with different degrees of inequality. The Swedish Democrat Oscar Sjöstedt is an economist, but he still cannot make a budget that can be read. When we asked the parliamentary investigation service if a distribution analysis of SD's proposals could be carried out, they replied: There is insufficient information on the proposals to be able to include them in the FASIT model. The Moderates finance their budget through, among other things, increased VAT on food, as they raise food VAT from 12 to 14 percent. It will have the greatest negative impact on those with lower incomes. In crowns, it will surely be more for the rich who buy lobster and white truffles, but in percent it will be the low income earners who pay the most. Moderates also worsen in sickness benefit and before a second withdrawal day. The end result is mostly for the rich and least for the poor. For some of those with the lowest income, there is even less in their wallets. The policy of the Moderates also leads to increased differences between women and men, and they simply pursue a policy of rich men. The Center Party's budget leads to an average of 2.7 per cent more or SEK 2 711 for those with the highest income. At the same time, it means that the second decile will have zero change. This means that the Center Party's proposals are good only for the really rich. One can begin a little nicely by stating that the Liberals have two proposals in their budget motion which I actually hope will eventually become a reality. One is a reduction in the interest rate deduction, which would be good for combating inequality. The second is a change in the travel allowance, something that can now be changed thanks to this budget, when the Left Party and the Government propose to set up an investigation to review the travel allowance. Otherwise, the Liberals will be able to reduce their remuneration with precision with the lowest income, while at the same time reducing taxes on them with the highest income. This means that they have by far the worst distributional policy profile on their budget. With Liberal politics, they have a minimum income of SEK 100 more in their wallets, but the richest tenth receives SEK 15 500 more in their wallets. If you count as a percentage, the difference will of course be great. The lowest income earns less than 0.1%, while the rich get 2.1%. It is a liberal distribution policy. The big question therefore becomes why the government is even considering cooperating with these bourgeois parties. Why do you want to cooperate with the Liberals who only care about the richest, and why do you want to cooperate with Annie Lööf and the Center Party who, ever since the Youth League has run the campaign Fuck union forever? The government has a choice, and it will make a difference what choice you make. If you want to do something about inequality, there is only one choice, whether you are a government or a electorate, and that is the Left Party. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I am in favour of the Committee on Finance's proposals for budgetary frameworks and guidelines for economic policy.
i-9675611e6eb05064-363	Madam President, I would like I drew attention to two points that Håkan Svenneling mentioned in his speech, and I therefore wanted to ask two questions. First, he mentioned the skewed availability of venture capital in Sweden. It's a fact. This applies not least to state venture capital, where 80% of the tax money that we have allocated to this goes to the metropolitan regions, 50% of which goes to the Stockholm region. This is bad. One can rightly ask whether there is a real need for state venture capital in such well-functioning capital markets as the City of Stockholm. That's another question. The question I was going to ask Håkan Svenneling about this is why it was so important for the government that you and the Left Party support to withdraw 2 billion in state venture capital from Östersund to Stockholm among their first decisions by closing Inlandsinnovation. Inland innovation was an attempt to bring about a change and to break the Stockholm fixation. Now this company barely got to work and test its wings until the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party and the Left Party withdrew this money from Jämtland and instead gave it to Stockholm County. How can this be defended? Madam President, I would like I'll have to ask my second question in the next line.
i-9675611e6eb05064-367	Madam President, I would like I thank Emil Källström for the question. During the time I have been in Parliament, I have really burned for the countryside. I have sat on the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development and pointed out the importance of risk capital in rural areas. This is a very priority issue that we must highlight. I am very concerned about how the banks, in particular, have left rural areas and thus also many times the granting of credit in rural areas. I therefore share Emil Källström's analysis that more venture capital is needed in rural areas. In the budget that we are presenting today, the Norrland Fund has an increased contribution. I think that can be very good. We proposed on the part of the Rural Committee that state actors should have more money and responsibility to work with rural areas. We did not specifically point to the Norrland Fund. Nevertheless, I can see that the objectives that we in the Rural Committee pointed out are actually achieved by that proposal. I believe it will benefit the northern counties, which take part of the Norrland Fund's money. The Center Party is the only party that is truly violated by Inland Innovation's closure. Perhaps that is because it was precisely the Center Party's proposal in the budget. The other bourgeois parties felt that the reform we were carrying out was a good one. For my part, it was about releasing the capital that was locked up both in Inland innovation and in the company called Fouriertransform, which was not well used but was too locked up to various investments. What I also saw in Inland Innovation's investments was that they were made in some companies that were already strong. And ownership did not always come from the countryside, but rather it was the city that owned things in the countryside. This means that I hope that the new fund that we have for state venture capital, called Saminvest, will work better to work with rural businesses. I hope that the n, Almi and Vinnova will see rural and rural entrepreneurship better and support them well with venture capital.
i-9675611e6eb05064-372	Madam President, I would like To withdraw 2 billion and then fill another player with 200 million is perhaps not really a rural policy to be proud of. That is of course also why Håkan Svenneling does not mention these figures and the relationship between them. Of course, there are things to improve in public venture capital, and in some areas one can really ask whether it is needed at all. Nevertheless, and no matter how good or bad you work, it was that the Left Party supported a transfer geographically – from Östersund to Stockholm city centre. We know that people tend to invest in the vicinity of the place where they sit. This is part of the socialist centralisation policy we are still living under. My next question is about female entrepreneurship. One of the things Håkan Svenneling talked about, equality between women and men, and where we need to take new steps is that we need to bring up equality for those who run companies, those who own companies and those who can be titulated CEOs and Chairman of the Board. It becomes problematic when the Left Party, which says it wants to work for this, is also the clearest voice to ban those sectors where we have seen the greatest increase in female entrepreneurs. I am talking about the welfare sector and domestic services. The facts on the table are that it is often a completely new category of female entrepreneurs that have come into being there. This is a good development, and that is something we would need to reinforce further. I believe that it also has amazing consequences when children see that their mother is an entrepreneur. But now the Left Party wants to close down some of the sectors where the number of women entrepreneurs has increased most. Why?
i-9675611e6eb05064-376	Madam President, I would like I will begin by concluding the debate we had on venture capital. I was very eager to get the question about forest industries that Emil previously asked Fredrik. It has been a focus for both me and Emil to make sure that they have good venture capital. I think I see great potential in developing the forest industries in the conversion economy we need to create, where – as Emil was into – the green atom needs to be more important than the carbon atom. I turn to Emil's second question, the one about female entrepreneurship. I think it's interesting when you're out in the North listening. I listened to a Norwegian right-wing politician who argued very clearly why quotas for women are needed for company boards and why there is a clear need to break the glass ceiling. I have still never understood why bourgeois parties in Sweden are against this. It is clear that this reform works in Norway and that it has meant that women have taken their place in leading positions in Norwegian companies. Norway also takes the lead in the climate transition by now changing its oil fund not to invest in gas and oil. I think these are interesting examples of good things that are happening despite the fact that Norway has a right-wing government that is wrong on very many other issues. The reasons why we want to stop the profit hunt in welfare and not have a state-subsidised RUT sector are other than that it is women who work there. For us, profit hunting as an incentive is wrong, and I think this is evident when school and care for the elderly are conducted in a way that is clearly about increasing profits as much as possible rather than making sure to deliver good education, for example. In the RUT sector, it is about being able to clean up people's homes, and I find it difficult to understand why we should tax subsidies it to such an extent when it does not contribute to our productivity. I would rather spend that money on a state venture capital company to strengthen, for example, our forestry industry.
i-9675611e6eb05064-381	Madam President, I would like It was nice to listen to Håkan Svenneling. I really appreciate his commitment to vulnerable people. Unfortunately, Håkan Svenneling's policy over time does not lead to improvements for these groups, but vice versa. In his speech, Svenneling said that politics needs to be a counterforce to the market and a lot of other things. It may certainly be necessary in some contexts, but the problem is that the other policy needs to be a counterforce against the Left Party – a corrective that, so to speak, resists. It is when the government is failing in this that we get a lot of the bad proposals I think the Left Party has contributed, especially on the tax side. It has been about breakpoint changes that make it less profitable to train as a teacher or specialist nurse or take a management job in elderly care. It is also in spite of and not thanks to your policy that the welfare billions arose, Håkan Svenneling. The opportunity to invest in welfare requires people to work. It requires that we get more people to work and that we break the biggest gap between those who work and those who do not work. That's when we get a space to distribute. With the policy of the Left Party over time, there will be more and more cutbacks to distribute. I also think I have seen a pattern in the Left Party, and in government policy at all, during this term of office. It is that virtues such as work, savings and even generosity have received higher taxation. You get a little curious about what virtues it is that should be affected next. Is it perhaps humility, or is it love? Is it education, or is it something else? Can Håkan Svenneling tell us a little about the plans ahead?
i-9675611e6eb05064-386	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the fine praise at least in the beginning, Jakob! I appreciate you, too, as a person and as a politician. I think you could play an important role in Swedish politics, because even if you in the Christian Democrats come from a conservative ideology, you have values in your policy that are clearly about building a society – a society that is not torn apart and that you can actually trust. On that basis, we sometimes find, even though we are far apart ideologically, points where we actually agree. With regard to the points on which we may not agree, you mean that we do not have a job policy that works, Mr Jakob, and that we do not thereby create welfare billions. I think you're basically wrong. Former Prime Minister Reinfeldt said: The industry is basically go. He also said: We used to have farmers. It's two of my favorite quotes from him, because I think it says so much about what picture he had of Sweden. It's a picture that doesn't match mine. If it is something we have, it is farmers, who actually use our country and that we need to increase Swedish food production and to have open landscapes in Sweden. We also really need industry and industrial locations in Sweden. Much of the value that comes from Sweden actually depends on industries in Swedish rural areas. When I sat on the Rural Committee, we calculated which export values Swedish countryside comes with, and they are strong and insignificant. That is why I am very pleased with the shift in industrial policy that has taken place, and I have been the driving force behind it. I know that it will create welfare billions in the long term. Whether we regulate any breakpoints here or there or tax on gifts I think will be less important. I think the important thing is that those who have more can make a better contribution in our society. Therefore, I think that those who have the great wealth – and from which we see it actually withdraw, because our tax system is rigged for the rich – need higher taxes on capital. They need inheritance and gift tax, and they need a millionaire tax on them.
i-9675611e6eb05064-391	Madam President, I would like Here we got some examples of further plans to raise taxes. It is certainly possible to discuss an individual case, but the problem with the Left Party policy is that you do not settle for raising the tax for the rich – you want to increase the tax for everyone. They want to increase the tax rate for those who gnet together to their pension and deposit the money into an investment savings account. Anyone who gives to the Red Cross every month shall, with the policy of the Left Party, receive increased tax on the specific gift. You want to raise taxes for everyone who works. You want to remove the job tax deductions. The speech criticised the government for maintaining the great reform of the Alliance, which has led to several hundred thousand additional people in work. It has led to better work for low-income people as well. That's what worries me. I think some of the proposals made by the Left Party are good. An increase in the BTP is a good thing; we are proposing even more than the Left Party in terms of raising the BTP to economically vulnerable older people. It is good to improve for financially vulnerable families with children. It's good to make some improvements for sick and active people. However, this requires a job policy – for work. This requires not punishing labour with taxes and not punishing education with increased taxes. This is where the Left Party analysis is lacking, I think. It's also about not giving up. It is about ensuring that every person has the chance to go to a workplace, feel seen, get the feeling of being involved and contribute to something common and become part of a working community. I think that dimension is lacking in government policy when we do not do enough to get people who are far removed from the labour market into it. It will certainly not be improved by abolishing the job tax deduction, as the Left Party wants to do.
i-9675611e6eb05064-395	Madam President, I would like I disagree with Jakob Forssmed's analysis. I see that in Sweden we have the highest employment rate in a very long time and that we have a lower unemployment rate than in a very long time. This means that many people in our society are actually part of the society that both I and Jakob want to see. They are part of a working community and contribute to Swedish productivity and Swedish tax revenues. Nor do I share the view that we are raising taxes for everyone. I said in my own speech that we are lowering taxes on pensioners. We are removing the gap that exists between pensioners and employees, which Jakob and his government created. For me, it is completely incomprehensible that those who have worked and contributed to our society should have higher taxes when they grow old and should be retired. For me, it is incomprehensible that they should be punished and given higher taxes than those who work. The same applies to those who have sickness and activity benefits. I don't understand why they should be punished once again for getting sick. Rather, the disease lies in our social system, where we often hunt people and where mental illness increases. I do not think it will make people healthier, and that is why I have a different view from Jakob on these issues. I think what we need to do is raise taxes for the richest. I'll be honest with you, Jakob, that the ISK tax really wasn't my favorite to raise. There are other taxes that I would much rather raise. However, the government resists and leaves bourgeois tax policy in undisputed nests. Therefore, the ISK tax was the tax that was possible to raise, because it precisely meets the really rich people in Sweden. ISK is still a favored form of savings, which is still good to save compared to other things. Then it is also reasonable to have a tax on this form of savings that is a little higher than it used to be. These are two bags of cheese hooks, as Ulla Andersson has said. I believe that these are two bags of cheese, so we can certainly agree on that. Some bourgeois parties want to reduce people's wages per hour by about the same amount as we raise taxes by in one year.
i-9675611e6eb05064-401	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by welcoming Elisabeth Svantesson to her new position as an economic-political spokesperson. I look forward to many exciting debates in the coming year. Of course, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Ulf Kristersson for all the exciting debates we have had. While I'm at it, I can also welcome Jakob Forssmed back from parental leave – it's good to see you here again! Madam President, I would like In the budget proposal under discussion by the House today, the government notes that Sweden is in a completely new economic situation. The bourgeois government's deficit in public finances of as much as SEK 6 0 billion has been turned into surplus during all the years of this term. The estimate for 2018 is a surplus of SEK 80 billion. In good times we will strengthen Sweden's economic shelters. The government therefore proposes that half of the surplus, EUR 40 billion, be used to pay off the public debt. As a result, the government would have reduced Sweden's public debt by 10 percentage points during its term of office, and the public debt as a proportion of gross domestic product would then be at the lowest level since 1977. This means that public finances are well equipped for the recession that we all know will come sooner or later. But politics must also address the problems that the Swedish people see here and now. The police are putting investigations on high, even in the case of serious crimes such as rape. Pregnant women worry if they can fit at the hospital when it's time for birth. Parents worry if the children really learn enough in school. Families with children and pensioners are struggling to make ends meet. Unemployed people struggle to find employment, while employers cry out for skilled labour. The remaining 40 billion will therefore be used to equip the community. Crimes are to be combated, welfare is to be strengthened and jobs are to be increased. The Swedish model will be developed. Madam President, I would like Before I move on to the important structural reforms proposed by the government, I will give a few words to the debate that has taken place so far. After all, the opposition seems to hold on to the high tone of public finances that was established when the budget bill was presented. A surplus of SEK 40 billion was dismissed as historically low, and instead, strong increases in public savings were promised. That's not what happened. The bourgeois parties seem to hold on to their habit from the time of government to speak in the solemn speeches of responsibility for the state finances but in practice let this go hand in hand with at best smooth outcomes. So even this year. The strong strengthening of public sector financial savings promised by the opposition parties amounts to a quarter percent of GDP. Madam President, I would like The differences in Swedish politics cannot be measured in a few tenths of a percent of GDP. Nor will I make it easy for myself and pretend that it is only the government and no one else who sees the problems. Instead, the differences are about which policy one considers best to solve social problems, and ultimately it is about which country we want Sweden to be. Anyone who has followed today's debate in this House can probably sense the political divide. It becomes even clearer if you read the proposals put forward by the opposition and on which the Riksdag has a position. In the opposition parties' draft budget there are many differences but a common denominator that overshadows everything: they want to reduce taxes. In each of the opposition's budget options, tax cuts next year of more than SEK 30 billion are proposed. Each party also proposes major cuts in funding. I'm sure my fellow debaters here will protest in their lines. They may point out that there is one or two areas that they do not want to cut back on in order to reduce the tax. That is also the case, but what is the result when four – or perhaps five – parties compromise their proposals? One party wants to spend a little more on health care while another wants to spend more on defence. At least some party doesn't want to cut back on school. But when it comes to taxes, the only issue is what taxes are to be reduced and how much. Here I think it will be clear to the vast majority: if everyone who sits at the negotiating table already agrees that the tax should be reduced, they will also agree on major tax reductions. When everyone has fought and argued for precisely their tax reductions – a sixth job tax deduction, abolished military tax or increased basic deduction – there is little left for other things. Then the welfare will stand back. It is a policy that we saw in eight years of alliance. Then there is no money for the welfare. The next term of office risks a lack of money to meet the challenges of that term of office. As the seniors grow, the children in school get by with the teachers we have today. As we live longer, the home care staff will not be able to talk about those extra minutes with someone who may not have any more visits that day. As international competition hardens and knowledge requirements increase in the labour market, those who lack the right skills can do without re-training and instead try to compete with lower wages. The question is whether there will even be money left for the profit hunt in welfare that the right parties have agreed to preserve at all costs. Madam President, I would like The alternative to the opposition's tax cuts is the budget bill resulting from negotiations between the government parties and the Left Party. We have agreed on a different route for Sweden. We will equip the construction of society and develop the Swedish model. We want Sweden to be a country that stays together. Therefore, everyone who can work should also work. For there is no gap as great as the gap between the one who has a job and the one who does not. The EU's lowest unemployment target for 2020 therefore guides government policies. For Sweden to stay together, people must be able to feel safe where they live and work. Regardless of where you live in Sweden, you should feel confident that the police and the entire judiciary are equipped with both employees and tools to combat the crimes. That's why the government is tightening up the penalties for serious gun crimes. We will strengthen the judiciary by SEK 750 million while the police will receive an additional SEK 2 billion in resources next year. The signal from society must be crystal clear regardless of the crime involved – burglary or vandalism, sexual abuse or terrorism, organised crime or weapons crime, economic crime or tax evasion: the crimes, violence and weapons must be fought with the full force of the democratic rule of law.
i-9675611e6eb05064-424	Madam President, I would like The government's budget not only addresses the problems we face here and now, but also lays the foundations for the next parliamentary term. We get healthier, we live longer and we have more children. This is because the standard of living is rising in Sweden, and we should be happy about it. But of course, welfare needs to keep up. According to the Swedish Municipalities and County Council, in the coming years Sweden will have to build 600 new preschools, 350 primary and secondary schools, 350 group homes and retirement homes and 150 sports facilities. This is a delicate task, and yes, I understand that many local politicians are concerned about how they are going to put this together. You should think about two things. Firstly, how much better is it to live in a time when we are building schools rather than closing them? Secondly, no preschool and no retirement home have ever been built with tax cuts.
i-9675611e6eb05064-427	This government will do its part of the job. Next year, the biggest investment will be made in health care in modern times, with more and more knowledgeable staff, safer maternity care and shorter queues. With this budget, welfare has been strengthened by 35 billion during the term of office, but more needs to be done. The government's efforts to increase resources will continue the next term of office. The 10 welfare billions, which make use of municipalities and county councils already today, will be increased by 15 to 2019. By 2020 they will be raised permanently to 20 billion per year. Madam President, I would like The surplus in public finances shall be used responsibly. The government is building economic shelters against bad times while investing in what builds Sweden strongly for the future. Everyone who can work should work. The fight against crime must be intensified. Well-being must be future-proof. This is how we equip the Swedish community building.
i-9675611e6eb05064-430	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for the welcome! Yes, the Swedish economy is doing well right now, and I am delighted. It is interesting to hear the Minister for Finance take on a great deal of this. At the same time, she does not take any responsibility whatsoever for all the problems that have grown during this government and during the time of the Minister for Finance. Integration problems have increased in recent years. More and more people are becoming dependent on subsidies. Housing areas where fewer and fewer people work are becoming more numerous. The healthcare queues, as I mentioned earlier, have increased and doubled in these years. People have even died because of waiting for an operation. The police can't do their job. During these three years, reports of violent crimes and rapes have been piled up. We also have more long-term unemployed. They have been left aside and have not received any input at all. Several of these things mention the Minister for Finance, but she completely forgets that she and the government are responsible for the development in Sweden now. Instead, the Finance Minister and the chairman of the committee do exactly as they always do: they go back to the year of the Alliance and try to find fault there. But let me remind you that in recent years taxes have been increased. The problems have increased. The state of law is not capable of carrying out its basic tasks. All this has happened under this government. This has happened because we now promise everything to everyone and are unable to prioritise. My question to the Minister for Finance is: Should we have it like this in Sweden during a boom?
i-9675611e6eb05064-436	Madam President, I would like I must begin by correcting Elisabeth Svantesson, who said that more people are dependent on subsidies. Since 1981 fewer people have been in various forms of transfer systems. We have fewer people who are dependent on subsidies now than we have had since the 1990s crisis. The government is extremely serious about the more serious and increasing crime, not least in terms of weapons, and has addressed some of the legislation that needed to be strengthened in order to make it clearer how society views all the illegal weapons in circulation. It is extremely important that we stop access to the illegal weapons that exist today. The government has therefore tightened up the legislation. The arms crime legislation will also be strengthened to allow the police to immediately arrest people who commit more serious weapons offences. This is an important tool for the police. We have also strengthened customs' ability to work towards explosives, such as hand grenades. So the government is taking measures that are extremely important for tackling serious crime. We are strengthening the police so that they can work to further combat crime. We are strengthening the resources for customs this year, next year and the coming years so that it can better secure our borders and work towards the introduction of illegal goods, such as weapons. It should be made clear that this government allocates increased resources to the police, customs and the entire legal chain, for Sweden should be a country in which we can all feel secure.
i-9675611e6eb05064-441	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the government is unable to give priority to the necessary structural reforms, which ultimately lead to increased employment. What concerns me most and which I find most sad is that we have a strong boom. It is in many ways common, but it is unusual in the sense that the long-term unemployed are increasing. They are left passive and allowed to stay at home without intervention. I remember from the last parliamentary term what criticism the current government, which was then an opposition, had and what words were used when it came to the long-term unemployed. What has happened now is that these have been left wind by wave. They are hidden and forgotten in the statistics. The problems for these people are acute. We have an employment agency that is not able to carry out the task it is carrying out. The employment agency needs to be closed down and replaced with something completely new. This is a majority here in Parliament agreed on. A majority of the Swedish people have no confidence in this authority. If, during the economic boom, we are not able to tackle all the problems I have mentioned, including the long-term unemployed and to get an authority to work, what will happen when the economic cycle turns? Recovering large expenditures in a boom, expenditure that does not have long-term structural effects, will lead to an expenditure suit that, when it turns around, is far too large. This will affect Sweden. I still wonder, is it supposed to be like this in a boom, that you don't get to grips with the problems that exist? The government is unable to create structural reforms that will prevent people from being hit so hard once it turns around.
i-9675611e6eb05064-447	Madam President, I would like I find it difficult to keep up with Elisabeth Svantesson's argumentation. She criticises the government for not doing enough and for doing too much. She thinks we are doing too many reforms and believes that we cannot afford such a spending suit. At the same time, she criticises us for doing too little. If we are talking about large expenditure suits, it is perhaps a little remarkable that it comes from a person who, when she was in a government position, reduced the tax – and indebted the entire Swedish people to lower the tax – on borrowed money in a cyclical upturn. The long-term unemployed are hidden and forgotten in the statistics," says Elisabeth Svantesson. At the same time, she criticises the fact that the government has an unemployment target. This doesn't make any sense. The target that the Moderates had and that the government has now met did not focus on the long-term unemployed. The government's objective of reducing unemployment focuses on the long-term unemployed. If the Moderates cared about the long-term unemployed, they should not cut 8 billion in labour market policies, which go exactly to the long-term unemployed so that they can enter the labour market. Let me give you an example. Ghalia from Örebro, who Elisabeth Svantesson also comes from, now thanks to Arbetsförmedlingen, goes an excavator training course. In Syria, from which she has fled, she was a housewife. Now in Sweden she is training through Arbetsförmedlingen as an excavator, which is a deficiency profession. These are exactly the opportunities that the Moderates want to stop by cutting 8 billion in labour market policy. It does not help the long-term unemployed.
i-9675611e6eb05064-453	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance is absolutely right – we are lowering the tax. We are reducing tax rates for mainly low- and middle-income earners, small businesses and pensioners, in this order of magnitude. I think it is a sensible tax policy. We don't agree on that, but it's okay. But that's not really what I wanted to talk to you about. I want to talk about a decision that was taken in this House in 2013. It was then decided that people residing illegally in Sweden should have the right to tax-funded health care and dental care, as well as the right to tax-funded school and education. We were against, the Social Democrats were in favour. A few years later, at the beginning of 2016, last year, the then Minister of the Interior made it clear that we would have to expel up to 80 000 people from Sweden because they were refused their asylum application and thus found themselves in the country illegally. I have two questions about this. What about these 80,000 expulsions? How far have you come? That is Question No 1. Question 2: Does the Minister of Finance think that there is a conflict of interests when we have certain authorities who are doing everything they can to get these people to remain in the country even though they do not have the right or the permission to stay, while we have other authorities responsible for carrying out these expulsions or expulsions? Is there a conflict between the two lines?
i-9675611e6eb05064-458	Madam President, I would like Oscar Sjöstedt will have to clarify what he means by some authority doing everything it can to keep people in the country. The question is not about general health care and dental care, but about care that cannot be tolerated. It is therefore a question of the right to care for people who are seriously injured or dying. It is extremely important that the police and the Migration Agency work actively to ensure that those people who are unable to stay will leave the country and return. The government has changed its migration policy. The situation prevailing in 2015 was not sustainable. That is why the government did what was necessary and made the necessary decisions in order for us to have a more orderly migration policy in the country. That policy has had an effect. We now have a more normal number of asylum seekers in Sweden. Of course, it also enables both the police and the Migration Agency to work with expulsions in a better way than otherwise would have been the case. The budget that we are debating today also increases the possibilities for both the Migration Agency and the police to work with expulsions, including by increasing the number of detention centres, but also by increasing the resources available to the police.
i-9675611e6eb05064-462	Madam President, I would like The question remains. How'd it go? Now it's been almost two years. In January 2016, the Minister of the Interior said that 80 000 would have to be expelled from the country. Now it's November 2017. How far have you got? What measures have been taken? When do you plan to be ready? Is this a priority, or is it not particularly important? Goal fulfillment is a little bit like that, too. What further measures are planned? I do not share the view of the Minister for Finance that we should now have a more and more normal reception. Sweden is still at the absolute peak, both compared to our Nordic neighbours and in relation to the EU average. You might think it's normal or not, but at least I want to highlight this. How's it going? 80 000 people would be expelled because they were in the country illegally, i.e. without permission. How far have you got?
i-9675611e6eb05064-465	Madam President, I would like The number of instructions has increased. It's extremely important. This may be because both the police and the Migration Agency have been given increased resources to work with expulsions, including through an increased number of detention centres. The government also actively works with return agreements with more countries. There we see clearly that there has been a change, not least with regard to Morocco, which is now receiving people in a different way than before. Rejections to Morocco have increased substantially. However, some countries refuse to accept their own citizens, especially if they do not return voluntarily. It is a problem that Sweden and the Swedish Government are working on in the same way as before. In some cases we have achieved success. Of course, it is important that we ensure that we have the resources required in Sweden to be able to work with expulsions. We must also work through our diplomacy to get more countries to accept their citizens.
i-9675611e6eb05064-468	Madam President, I would like I have two questions. First of all, I would like to talk about the Employment Service. Then I'll talk a little bit about the Reepalus investigation. It is a well-established fact that this government has not really taken on Sweden's basic structural reform needs. It has been a long time since we had any greater momentum in the reform process, and that is a bad thing. This applies not least to the labour market, as we see the result of an ever deeper division between those on the inside and those on the outside. An important part of this is the lack of matching and the work of Arbetsförmedlingen is not working. It is an authority that has major efficiency problems and finds it difficult to focus. This is perhaps not surprisingly obvious that we have loaded some of our society's most difficult problems on one and the same state monopolist. You have to do something about this. There are good examples around the world of how to reform a country's employment service. There is also increasing political pressure to do just that in Sweden. The first thing Magdalena Andersson's government did was to withdraw and stop the investigation that existed on how to modernise the Swedish Public Employment Service. Then we have forced it back on, and it is working, but nevertheless it can be said that this has been a lost mandate in a number of areas, including precisely reform of the Employment Service. In the last week, we have received renewed alarm reports that the business community does not have confidence in this authority. How does the Minister of Finance react to this? Those who create jobs do not see Arbetsförmedlingen as a reasonable partner but try to find new ways around the state monopoly to meet their skills needs. Is that not something that points to a deep need for reform that every responsible government should take seriously?
i-9675611e6eb05064-473	Madam President, I would like The government has since it took office worked with labour market policy and the Public Employment Service. There has been important reform work at Arbetsförmedlingen during these years. I would guess that the reform work started already during the time of the alliance government, not least after the recruitment of a new Director-General, and the work is of course progressing. The government has also made important efforts in terms of labour market policy. An important effort was to stop the job coaches introduced by the Alliance Government, which proved to be a breeding ground for various forms of criminal activity, organised crime and terrorist financing. If you're going to let private actors in this area, you probably shouldn't be as blue-eyed and naive as the Center Party was when you were in government at the time. I hope something has been learned from it. On the other hand, I am sure that neither the problems of the Employment Service nor the problems of the labour market will be solved by cutting 8.2 billion in labour market policy as proposed by the Center Party in its budget motion. It's about people like Ghalia, who I talked about earlier, but also about those I meet when I'm around retirement homes around Sweden and who now have the opportunity to get a foot in the labour market through an extra service in welfare. This provides opportunities for people to get both education and the job training that may be needed to enter the labour market. If we now think it important for labour market policy to work, why would we want to cut by 8.2 billion?
i-9675611e6eb05064-475	Madam President, I would like The answer to that question is very simple. We have a lot of expensive, bad and inefficient programmes that lead to a poor working environment as a whole. Then it is wise to streamline and think new about the structure. I note that the Minister for Finance does not. The only point where she is really clear is that she is proud of things you have stopped doing. But the Swedish Public Employment Service and its function will require forward-looking reforms and proposals such as a united alliance that we are trying to get the government to understand but on which we will also be going to elections. I am pleased that there are such clear differences in this area. My next question is about the Reepalus investigation. Last Monday in Sundsvall and as late as yesterday here in Stockholm I have met women who run companies. There were two preschools. Both say the same thing: If the Reepalus investigation's proposal goes through, we'll close it. Fortunately, they will not go through. We already know that. Nevertheless, it is quite tragic that this parliamentary term has put time and energy into a process, the Reepalus investigation, which we all know will ultimately lead to nothing, rather than discussing a broad agreed framework of quality. I have a question for the Minister for Finance. As Minister of Finance and Economics, how does the Minister of Finance view the investigation? There's a complete ignorance of what's actually in the investigation. There is a painful interview with the Prime Minister where he tries to describe the proposals and it is clear that he has no idea. The Minister of Finance knows better. Is it not unfortunate that, as the Reepalus inquiry wants to do, individual companies' profit and loss accounts are regulated and how much they are allowed to go with under- or surplus? Is that not a very unreasonable regulation of Swedish enterprise?
i-9675611e6eb05064-480	Madam President, I would like I will return to the Reepalu investigation and the Center Party's love for the right of venture capital companies to make profits in our schools. I will start with labour market policy. Emil Källström says he wants to remove what is expensive and inefficient. It is, however, about Ghalia who attends the excavator training via Arbetsförmedlingen and in this way receives training to a shortage profession that will be able to lead to jobs. It's about the people I meet in care for the elderly who get to try working in home care and at a retirement home that is now interested in further training as a nurse and getting into that business. This is expensive and ineffective," says Emil Källström. Instead, he wants major structural reforms. What are the major structural reforms that the Center Party wants? Yes, it is lower wages and higher rents instead of the educational opportunities offered by the government. Of course there will be another Sweden. As far as the Reepalus investigation is concerned, I have noted that in the Land newspaper, it is a center party that has been concerned that the new land code reform would make it problematic for small forest owners. There were going to be big investment companies and knock their feet off. Here we are concerned about what the major investment companies are doing. On the other hand, when it comes to welfare, school, preschool and care for the elderly, there is not the same concern about the progress of these activities when the large investment companies act and ravage freely. There seems to be a difference between school, preschool, children and older people and forest owners. Emil Källström cannot reply now. But care seems to be a little closer to the forest owners.
i-9675611e6eb05064-487	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magdalena Andersson, for your kind words at the beginning of the speech! It is interesting to listen to the Minister for Finance. I think you should listen with interest when the country's finance minister speaks. I note that I jumped to a couple of times during the speech. Once it was mentioned in passing shorter care queues. That's when I jumped. The healthcare queues have become longer in line with the term of office. The longer the term of office has passed, the longer the care queues. This has to do with, among other things, the fact that the government, through the reform it has implemented, has abolished queue billions. Here we need to act decisively to bring down the care queues. That has not happened so far. I also note that the Minister of Finance is concerned about the functioning of home care and care for the elderly if the Alliance represented by the Christian Democrats comes to power. I think the Minister for Finance should be more concerned about his own policy. I'm surprised how little the government spends on elderly care in the budget. A few years ago, the Prime Minister spoke with great interest about our proposal for a retirement home guarantee. You could think that it was something the government was working on and planned to introduce. That's not what happened. There was no such proposal. At all, there is a lack of effective proposals to remedy the shortage of retirement homes that we see in Sweden today. The government should be very concerned about that. What do you do in the care area? As far as money is concerned, we are talking about EUR 12 million for the prevention of falls. That is 12 million, not billions, in a reform budget of 44 billion. It is about 13 million SEK for collaboration between county councils to improve it. That's not good enough. There's far too little money for elderly care. It is also wrong to take no structural steps to find the places we need in our retirement homes to break the loneliness and isolation that many elderly people feel.
i-9675611e6eb05064-495	Madam President, I would like The government has invested directly in elderly care with a special investment of 2 billion in elderly care. In addition, we have 10 welfare billions that go to municipalities and county councils to be able to have high quality in the operations. In addition, we are clear that we want to increase the welfare billions by an additional 5 and a further 5. The government is moving forward with a total of 20 welfare billions to ensure that we have a good and secure care for the elderly and home care throughout the country. In addition, we have support for the construction of retirement homes. The government is, of course, willing to invest what is necessary to ensure that we have safe operations not only in care for the elderly, but also in preschool, school and health care. I know something. It is clear that our older people will not be more secure if taxes are reduced by large amounts of money instead of making major major investments. The government's ageing policy is clear. We invest in municipalities and county councils to ensure that there is good and safe care for the elderly. We also want to ensure that the unfair tax gap introduced during Jakob Forssmed's time in the Government Office is removed. It means that pensioners today pay higher taxes than ordinary employees. It is an indecent tax gap. It wants the government to remove and also proposes this in the budget.
i-9675611e6eb05064-499	Madam President, I would like We in the Christian Democrats propose in our budget that the entire tax gap between employees and pensioners should be removed from the turn of the year. That's our priority. My assessment is that it was necessary to make the job tax deduction as it was in 2006. But it is wrong to maintain the difference for as long as has happened. That's where we should have done more. We will push to remove the gap. It is good that the government is now taking a step to do so. I welcome that. That is one of the few things I welcome in government policy. When it comes to care for the elderly, the elderly will be more secure with the policies of the Christian Democrats. We have special funds to ensure that you have increased staff continuity and are actively working on these issues to bring home slightly fewer people than the 27 that an elderly person can face over a two-week period in their own home. It is an excellent reform in which we want to devote considerable resources. We also want to devote considerable resources to both raising the BTP and developing retirement homes. The Minister of Finance says we'll do whatever it takes. Then do more. More and more people are being told: There is no room for you at the retirement home. Even those with aid-assessed needs do not get those seats. You can spend more money and hope it will work out. Or you can do what we want to do, invest targeted funds and make sure to create incentives for the municipalities to find the places. It is important to ensure that even more older people, and not least women, are given the opportunity to ask for adapted accommodation. I am surprised that the Social Democrats and the government are not doing more in this area. That was the budget you had to achieve what the Prime Minister has talked about with a retirement home guarantee. We're far from it. This means that the power over their own life situation is reduced for older people to an extent that I believe would not be necessary.
i-9675611e6eb05064-505	Madam President, I would like I do not question the Christian Democrats' ambition that we should have good care for the elderly and secure retirement homes for all our elderly. On the other hand, I doubt the opportunity of the Christian Democrats to get it through with their alliance colleagues. As I said in my speech, what we see is that four parties sit together and will compromise, and perhaps also with a fifth, and that not all parties agree to invest more in retirement homes but agree that they want to reduce taxes. What is it that comes out of those negotiations? It's reduced taxes. We saw it for eight years. We'll see it again. The alliance parties want to reduce taxes. If Jakob Forssmed is interested in investing more in care for the elderly, it's probably me he should turn to.
i-9675611e6eb05064-508	Madam President, I would like Let us conclude this part of the debate with perhaps the most important question: the defence of Sweden. We see how Russia is mobilizing and has been doing so for some time. We see the aggression and the war against Ukraine. The Russian argument behind the war against Ukraine could very easily also be used against the Baltics, and in such a situation it can quickly escalate to the entire Baltic Sea. I believe that most parties in the Swedish Parliament share this basic analysis. The only question is what do you do with it? In the Liberals' budget, we set a target of raising defence expenditure to 2% of GDP by 2026. During this budget period, until 2020, we increase the funding to the Swedish Armed Forces by 24 billion, which is about 17 billion more than the government. Unlike many other parties, the government and the Social Democrats have not set a two-percent target. Why isn't the government doing this? It would of course be important in itself to strengthen the defence, but it is also a strong signal to the outside world that we take the defence of our country and our freedom seriously.
i-9675611e6eb05064-511	Madam President, I would like I am a strong supporter of a strong Swedish defence. It is also something that can be seen in government policy. The government has reintroduced the military service that the Liberals were involved in and abolished by a very small majority in the Swedish Parliament. Compulsory service is crucial for us to be able to build a proper defence of Sweden. It is also important to maintain the will to defend the Swedish people. I am extremely proud of the general demand that we are putting in place. I think it can attract more young people to want to participate actively in the defence of Sweden. I very much regret the decision taken by the People's Party and the other alliance parties on military service. This is also reflected in the Government's practical policy when it comes to money. With this budget, the government has increased defence spending by 25% – a historically large increase in defence spending. I can see that the Liberals in opposition are interested in increasing defence appropriations. Unfortunately, we did not see enough of it when they were in government. My assessment is that the Liberals are better defence policies in opposition than in government positions.
i-9675611e6eb05064-514	Madam President, I would like In opposition, Magdalena Andersson wanted to cut down more on the holding in the budgets she presented as an opposition politician. It is absolutely excellent that we have now begun to have a broader consensus, and no party is free from debt in recent years – not mine, not the Social Democrats, not anything else. However, the reconstruction of the Swedish defence system must go much further than the government is now proposing. That is why it is excellent that it is added to money, but much more needs to be done. We also need to stop some things that are happening. For example, almost entirely new JAS Gripen will start to be scrapped, and new variants will be purchased. What we are proposing is a much better policy: we let these about 100 aircraft that we have today remain and add the 60 to them, which also certainly means that we may need a new flotilla in Sweden. It is, of course, economically bad to scrap almost new aircraft, but it is also, of course, bad for the Swedish defence. We have long borders with the Baltic Sea to defend. Air travel is an extremely important part of this. In the debate, I really think that we should focus on what is happening now and onwards. We made mistakes during the time of the alliance government. The Social Democrats wanted to spend even less money. The question is, what do we do now? What we did five or ten years ago does not help us to deal with Vladimir Putin in the coming years. That is where the focus needs to be, and that is where we need to come up to 2%.
i-9675611e6eb05064-518	Madam President, I would like If I remember the last defence discussions before the election right, I think we Social Democrats put more on the defence. If I remember correctly, it was a figure of SEK 900 million that we proposed to spend more on defence at the end of the last parliamentary term. We Social Democrats have traditionally ensured that Sweden has a defence capability adapted to the security policy situation. The security situation has now deteriorated. We have a more aggressive neighbour, and we see that the security situation in the Baltic Sea has deteriorated. Of course, as a responsible government, we have also responded to this by increasing defence appropriations by as much as 25%. That is a considerable increase. We shall, of course, ensure that Sweden has the defence that the security policy situation requires today, but also ahead. Here, the cooperation that we have been able to have across the block border around defence policy is something that is important for stability and, not least, for the image that our surrounding world has of Sweden. It is important that there is stability in defence policy. I can only regret that the Liberals have chosen not to be part of this cooperation. I do not think it is the best thing for security policy in Sweden.
i-9675611e6eb05064-521	Madam President, I would like A tax can have several purposes. There is some agreement and consensus here in the Swedish Parliament. On the other hand, we have different views on what the objectives are and thus how the tax system should be designed. Symbolically, with the current government, Sweden has once again taken the lead in the world for the highest taxes on labour income, while the tax burden not only overall but also for companies has been significantly increased. Through taxes we control consumption, construction and job creation to a large extent. Through taxes, we determine people's willingness to start and run businesses, to invest and to create new jobs. Finally, fiscal policy is a matter of creating future tax revenue. Tax policy will lay the foundations for growth throughout the country. The main benefits and risks of tax policy are at an overall level in the long term. Basically, it is about long-term conditions for running and changing up entrepreneurship and about the entire Swedish competitiveness. Without companies that employ, we cannot get the tax resources we need to strengthen welfare. Taxes are instruments that influence behaviour. The signal of where tax policy is heading is at least as important as the taxes being raised here and now. Madam President, I would like Sweden is in a boom. Now we also see a synchronised global growth that benefits the Swedish export industry – an industry that, like many other industries in the country, is under pressure. Then it is important not to be haughty. A rapidly changing world increases demands on our ability to adapt and our ability to implement reforms that strengthen the conditions for job creation, strengthen welfare and strengthen our international competitiveness. Despite a very strong economic situation, exclusion remains high, especially among newcomers and persons with short education. The cleavage between those who have education and employment and those who do not have it is reinforced in the labour market while matching is not working well. In the midst of the boom and labour shortages, there are so serious job lock-ups that hundreds of thousands of people of productive age are excluded. It is also a split between the towns that have benefited from structural change and have followed the global upturn and those that have been left out. There are large towns and small villages where jobs become more and where people move. But there are also mills where there are not enough new small businesses to start after the mill has closed down, and there are suburbs cut off from the city's economic success. Madam President, I would like I fear the government's policy is wasting the boom. The government is pursuing a policy that reinforces imbalances and risks of overheating rather than using the good times to create a sustainable basis for long-term growth. The economic boom must be used to increase employment and growth capacity in the Swedish economy both to equip the country for worse times and to avoid the recession hitting the roof and changing in overheating and crisis. Sweden needs new leadership. The shift in policy must be based on the fact that it is small and growing companies that have provided more than four out of five new jobs in the 21st century. Therefore, taxes that penalise entrepreneurship and growing companies must be reduced and simplified so that the growth of small businesses is strong throughout the country. Employers' contributions to employ those who are new and untested in the labour market need to be reduced, and it needs to be cheaper for small businesses to employ in general. Income tax cuts for jobs need to be further strengthened so that they reach all and are the most powerful for those with the lowest incomes. Madam President, I would like A broad tax reform will be required to simplify the tax system and shift the tax burden away from work and across to consumption and environmental emissions. The Center Party is proposing a comprehensive green tax shift in which the tax on emissions is increased by the polluter paying and the proceeds are used to reduce the tax on labour and entrepreneurship. Emissions have to go down. Unfortunately, emissions under the current government are increasing. When the Alliance and the Center Party were in government, emissions were reduced, despite the fact that there is now growth. Madam President, I would like Climate policy should not be used primarily to collect tax revenue. We propose radical reforms that make it profitable for the individual to choose the environmentally sound alternative, such as a green car bonus to buy the most environmentally friendly passenger car or truck. In addition, strong incentives must be created to replace oil, both as a fuel and as a raw material in industry, with Swedish biomass from our forests. We are well placed to create a non-toxic society where our children can grow up in a healthy environment. The green transition can be accelerated with the help of new technologies, innovations and entrepreneurship, and Sweden can become the world leader in creating new solutions. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say that fiscal policy must focus on creating good conditions for people to live, live and work throughout the country. It can make a powerful contribution to reducing regional cleavage. The Center Party proposes that certain tax bases should be regional, such as property tax. With this, Madam President, I would like to endorse, as Emil Källström has done, the reservations expressed by the Center Party in the Committee on Finance's report No 1.
i-9675611e6eb05064-535	Madam President, I would like I wanted to start my speech in the economic-political debate with a strof from a well-known and popular Swedish song, Summer is short: Most of it rains away. ..................................................... It is Tomas Ledin who has written it, who can pray. I and many with me who have grown up with Summer is short it saw not as a right- or left song but as a melody about freedom, a melody about Sweden and a story about summer, vacation and joy of life. It is about the time of year when efforts are rewarded and the feeling of being sufficient to finally appear with many Swedes. In my generation, this was a real summer meadow that actually describes how Sver ige is and the values that we want to see strengthened – that, as always, it should pay off to make an effort. It's about driving forces to do more right, to help, to work – all that benefits Sweden and our future. I think this says something about the Swedes' relationship with the fact that it should pay off. Finally, the holiday, the joy of life, and you look forward to those days of family and friends and moments to recharge your batteries and then for much of the year work, pay taxes, do your own thing, work and realize those dreams that you have as an employee or as an entrepreneur. So the lyrics are a little bit about dreams, about what is important in everyday life and about the commitments we have as workers or taxpayers in a welfare country. Efforts also involve participating in and contributing to the strong welfare state. That is something we should be able to treat ourselves to here in our welfare country. There are many of us who think that this is an important part of what Sweden is and what Sweden is valuable for the future. Madam President, I would like After that introduction, I am now going to move on to something quite different, namely that all of this, all the values that I have now described, still seems to come to an end. We are reminded once again how the high tax state always finds its way to its citizens. Now it knocks on the door of all the broad occupational groups in normal pay positions, such as teachers, midwives, preschool managers and specialist nurses, who will pay more than half of a future salary increase in taxes. It doesn't make sense. The dream of the red cabins with white knots where you sit in the summer sun at the apple tree and drink juice will not fall out at all in the way these broad occupational groups want. To make an effort, to work a little extra, to educate, save and do a little extra to strengthen the welfare country should not pay off in the Social Democrats Sweden. In S ocialdemocrats nas Sweden, an intensive care nurse, an upper secondary school teacher or a midwife becomes a high-income worker. In the Swedish Social Democrats they become with regular wages, the welfare employees who work hard in everyday life and do it little extra, höginkom statarna. You heard quite rightly: a nurse with further training becomes a high wage earner. It is not about high tax country Sweden now going after the most wealthy. No, the direction is a direct and clear blow to ordinary employees. People who work with several years of education in the core of welfare work extra hard because they are far too few to be enough. In a normal situation, every day at work, there is a serious shortage of teachers, nurses, social secretaries and the key competences that we need to maintain our welfare country. In addition, it is crucial that they work and are given strong driving forces to work even more, because the lack of competence in welfare is great today but also so tomorrow when nothing else is done. This is precision, tax surgery at its worst. With it you dot individuals who work hard to enough at the health centre, in the hospital corridor or in the classroom. You want to with the dot those who make a little more effort, who further train themselves and become middle managers and who take responsibility for coaching others at work. They are scored in Sweden of the Social Democrats. Madam President, I would like There is broad support for having a progressive tax system, in which those who earn more pay more in tax. However, when broad occupational groups in normal pay rates are counted as high income earners, the government has gone too far. This is not reasonable, especially at a time when there is an acute shortage of trained staff in health care and school. We believe that it is directly harmful to discourage these important professions from working more and from exerting themselves. In a conversation I had with an anaesthetic nurse this week, she asked: ‘ How come the government doesn't understand that this is about us ordinary people, that it won't pay us to work a little bit more? Why are they taxing us who work hard and who make a difference in patients' everyday lives? And why not give more and more driving forces to us that make the difference between quality and even better quality in welfare? To all those who follow this, who see this and who, like the anaesthetic nurse, are concerned, I would like to say that when the club falls in this House in a few hours' time, it is a matter of a majority in this House not finding it sufficiently important that taxation is linked to how we supply and strengthen the quality of welfare – in care and in school. We are in a flowering international boom. Thanks to a strong Swedish export industry, Sweden is currently harvesting well. Then the government chooses to label and tax welfare employees with tax-surgical precision as high-income recipients. That's the answer we can give the anaesthetic nurse and others this afternoon. Madam President, I would like I agree with what Elisabeth Svantesson said in her speech and call for the approval of Amendments Nos 1 and 6. We Moderates are proposing today that the goal should be that no teacher, anaesthetic nurse or nurse should pay government tax. They should not be regarded as high income earners. We are now taking the first step through our draft budget. We want to change the breakpoint of the state tax and make this possible. Unfortunately, we are not achieving a majority today. When the club falls, many will feel squeezed by the current government. These are broad occupational groups. Madam President, I would like The basis for a long-term and sustainable tax system is that people trust that the tax goes where it is intended to go. A system that only lives after old trials and fails with the core tasks will quickly question and ultimately distrust. So now is the time to do more right from the start. It is regrettable that the government does not come up with the powerful reforms that would make Sweden stronger and strengthen the employees of welfare. Madam President, I would like In Tomas Ledin's song Summer is short, there are problems that the days are raining away. Not only will it feel that the efforts of teachers, nurses, anesthesiologists and others every day will rain away in the future, but the driving forces for developing welfare will stop. And I'm gonna let the government take responsibility for that.
i-9675611e6eb05064-552	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservations Nos 2 and 7. Madam President, I would like The aim of fiscal policy is to create the conditions for welfare, security, school, health care, care, defence, culture and a lot of other things. The tax system should also steer people's behaviour, away from what is perceived as harmful in various respects, and encourage behaviour that is defined as positive. From the point of view of the Swedish Democrats, it is also important that the tax system contributes to increasing the willingness to pay the right tax. We want a tax system that is perceived as fair, relevant and effective. To get there, we need to change some of the conditions in our tax system today. I will therefore focus mainly on some of these tax issues. For sufficient tax revenue to be generated, the tax system must reward those sectors that create the basis for tax collection. An important goal for Sweden's democrats' tax policy is therefore to create good conditions for starting and running companies in Sweden. In this context, we are pressing to make it easy for companies to employ and retain staff. For small businesses, building on the next employee is a huge burden – the smaller the companies, the more relative the strain. Sick pay liability, marginal taxes and capital gain taxation are other major areas of the tax area that directly affect companies' ability to grow, in a negative way. Madam President, I would like New jobs mainly come from small and medium-sized enterprises. We therefore want to remove the general payroll fee for the first nine employees and make it cheaper to start expanding their company. We want to remove the very harmful liability for sick pay, and we want to move in the direction of harmonising the taxation of the entrepreneur, no matter how he or she withdraws his or her remuneration from the company. Today, the so-called 3:12 rules create completely unnecessary bureaucracy and enormous costs for the entrepreneur, so that they can be handled properly. With our tax policy, employers' contributions would be about 34% lower than today for the first nine employees in all companies. Together with the abolition of sickness pay, it would significantly reduce the risk of hiring. This, in turn, would be a real energy boost, especially for the really small companies, where the start-up cost and the risk of the next job today are severely hampering growth. Our policy would thus increase the tax base by increasing entrepreneurship. Madam President, I would like Sweden currently has the sixth highest tax burden in the world. In addition, since the Red Green Government took office in 2014, it has started to increase again, after having been on a downward path over a 15-year period. An excessive tax burden reduces our competitiveness towards the outside world. It inhibits many businesses from expanding, and this leads to companies moving abroad. It reduces incentives to start up and run businesses, and it reduces the driving forces to move from unemployment to jobs. We therefore need to start a long-term development in order to gradually reduce the tax burden towards the OECD average. We have a long way to go, and it will take many years to get there. But it is necessary to recognise the importance of turning the tax burden in the right direction. In order to achieve this, it is also important to save tax revenue. The money should be used correctly and efficiently. We also need to broaden the tax bases and reduce differences, both in VAT rates and between different tax bases. Excessive tax pressure also increases incentives to try to cheat on the tax. It is a major problem that has rightly been highlighted, not least this year. It is a serious threat to economic development. This problem needs to be addressed at both ends, i.e. both with a better tax system and through the prevention and prosecution of harmful behaviour. Another important issue is linking welfare systems to citizenship. The sick leaves have created a huge future cost base through a migration policy that means that we have received many times more than our welfare system can handle. That is what we are now beginning to see the effects of seriously. An important measure is to reduce income taxes for low and middle income earners. Today, the tax system is helping to make people dependent on subsidies, which we believe is both a socio-economic stupidity and dishonest to people with low incomes. We would therefore like to examine the possibility of introducing a high basic deduction in the order of SEK 150 000 through a tax exchange between direct and indirect taxes. This would be an important milestone in strengthening the economic viability of people on low incomes. Madam President, I would like We are seeing rapid developments with declining pensions and poorer pensioners. Even though you have lived your whole life in Sweden, worked and strived for, the general pension is not enough for much more than to survive for many people. We must therefore create opportunities for many more people than today to save for their own pension. We also believe that pensions are deferred wages, and we believe that taxes on pensions and salaries should be equal. We are therefore budgeting for the total removal of pensioner's tax, which we have been doing since 2010. Sweden has, internationally, a relatively poor population. We want to change that and create the conditions for many to build their own financial buffer and security for themselves and their family. The red-green government is moving in the opposite direction, now increasing taxation on ISK, the only remaining option to save with preferential taxation. We see a strong self-worth in that people have the opportunity to save in a long-term sustainable way. It is good for Sweden on many different levels, and we are therefore acting against an increase in the ISK tax. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats believe that the red-green government's tax policy is harmful to Sweden in several respects. I hope I've made that clear. The alliance parties usually also say that they think so. But the difference between them and us is that they don't want to do anything about it. They have been stuck in their thinking since the December agreement. I shall therefore conclude my speech by referring to an example in order to give an idea of how it can be done when such harmful rules can remain. Our energy taxes are regulated by the EU through the so-called Energy Taxation Directive. As far as the energy tax on ship fuel is concerned, a major problem has been highlighted by our archipelago companies, which, in our view, are unduly affected by an incorrect interpretation of the Energy Taxation Directive. We have therefore put forward a proposal in the Tax Committee to correct the problem so that the archipelago companies can run their own captive transport on untaxed fuel. They are not allowed to do so today because the government believes that their carriers should be regarded as private pleasure ships. Unfortunately, our proposal was rejected by all the parties, who obviously agree with the government on the very strange assessment. We believe that Sweden must make use of the possibilities available for derogations from incorrect definitions in EU directives that do not take account of Swedish facts. But we are obviously the only ones to think so, which I find boring because it creates problems for Sweden. Instead of acting to solve problems with negative effects on Swedish society, on which most agree on the substance, it is made a political game in which the citizens of our country are losers. We want to change and simplify the tax system so that it becomes clear, relevant and fair. It should stimulate entrepreneurship and work, combat harmful behaviour and be able to finance security systems and welfare systems aimed primarily at our citizens.
i-9675611e6eb05064-573	Madam President, I would like Sweden, as you know, is a small huge export-dependent country, depending on what is happening around us in Europe and in the world. The international economy plays into our hands as it flourishes, but it will be very tough for companies and employees when we enter a recession. It is therefore extremely important that Sweden, a heavily export-dependent country, is stable and that when it swans it is prepared to stand firm. This is how we ensure that there are good conditions for our companies and entrepreneurs. Stability, responsibility and order in state finances are important for the Moderates and alliance parties. We also want the rules of the game to be regulated. We want to distinguish between the content of the economic debate but agree on the approach, that is, the way we work on economic issues. Therefore, we are now extremely distressed that the Swedish Democrats have said in recent days that the budgetary rules, keeping track of the working arrangements in the Riksdag, are not very important because the Swedish Democrats are right in substance. There are working arrangements in the Riksdag. We call them budgetary rules. They have been in the Tax Committee since 1996, and we relate to them. Then we discuss the content and have different types of proposals – and we can distinguish between the two things. That's why you're making me deeply concerned, Olle Felten. Will you, like the other parliamentary parties, ensure that there is order and order in the forms of work and in the way of working together, i.e. distinguishing between what is political and what is real work? Or will you circumvent the common budgetary rules in Parliament, which we have worked out together?
i-9675611e6eb05064-578	Madam President, I would like It was an excellent description of the situation of the Swedish economy and Swedish entrepreneurship that Cecilia Widegren gave just now. I can only agree. We absolutely agree with that description. Good conditions must be built for the Swedish export industry. Our entire economy depends on it. The Swedish Democrats have pushed the issue of creating good conditions for exports and building regulations in the same direction as the OECD has worked to protect tax bases and so on. We think it is a good order, and we have noted that the Moderates are also running the same line. We are grateful for that. With regard to the rather fuzzy question of sticking to regulations and so on, as Cecilia Widegren put it, I suppose the question concerns the ISK tax. The government has put forward a proposal outside the budget bill in its own bill, but the government has counted on the revenue from the proposal in its budget. It will be a very unorthodox approach to the issue. The Swedish democrats cannot see that there is any reason to lie flat for such behaviour. We believe that the proposal for the ISK tax can be handled as a proposal of its own. It is not a major problem, and there is no legal support to force any other handling.
i-9675611e6eb05064-582	Madam President, I would like The reason why we are very concerned that the Swedish Democrats – and we have heard it several times in the budget debate today – think that a framework is fuzzy or that it is not something that needs to be followed is based on the fact that Sweden is a small export-dependent country. Sweden is so heavily dependent on what is happening in our surrounding world that there must be stability in how we work. Then it is free for everyone to think differently in politics, to put forward different types of proposals. There should be a high level of discussion and debate. However, regulations on how we relate to and work to keep the strong budget – that in a few hours' time we will decide on the framework and next week we will start talking about the respective area of expenditure – we agree. It's about an approach to working together. I think that the wrong framework is being decided this afternoon because the moderate framework is falling. But I have to deal with the majority decision under the framework and control system that we have built together. I think that a distinction should be made between working methods and political content. It is wrong to tax savings, and I will push that question hard. If that decision goes through in the Riksdag this autumn, I will work for it to be demolished. It's the wrong policy. But I am not prepared, for that matter, to upset the budgetary rules, the framework that we have developed together, the approach to how we want to strengthen economic finances in our work in the Swedish Parliament. Do the Swedish Democrats depart from the other agreements of the Riksdag because you think it is more important to sabotage a framework that forms the basis for stability when it strikes in the international recession?
i-9675611e6eb05064-587	Madam President, I would like Of course, we are not in favour of tearing up frameworks or anything else. On the other hand, in this case, the issue is partly outside the budget bill, despite the fact that the government is including revenue. Basically, this is an old framework from over 20 years back in time. We have not been involved in agreeing to deal with matters in this way. On the other hand, the Alliance and the Red-Green Government have put themselves in each other's knees through the previous December agreement, and they continue to work for it in a hard way. You do not want to implement rules that could mean that the government takes its food out of school and hand over to the Alliance. You're terrified of that in the Alliance. You don't want to get your own proposals through. This is where the problem lies. The ISK tax is harmful; it says the entire Alliance. But you don't want to do anything about it. You want to introduce this tax by agreeing to the government's harmful proposal. Then you say you want to remove it. What is the point of dealing with it this way? If you think this treasure is harmful to you, you don't. It's simple. We can do that, and I hope that the Alliance and Cecilia Widegren will come to their senses and vote with us on this issue.
i-9675611e6eb05064-591	Madam President, I would like The aim of taxation should be to finance public expenditure, to steer economic development in a social and ecological direction and to mitigate the spread of income. At the same time, we should be aware that there is a risk that taxes will lead to unsound economic behaviour of people and businesses if we do not organise the tax system properly. The aim must therefore be that the tax system is transparent and ethically legitimate. People need to understand why the tax looks a certain way and be able to take in information about how it is used. The tax system shall be designed to allow the individual to retain his or her own salary or pension as far as possible before the payment of supplementary contributions. The goal is for all full-time workers to be able to live on their wages. To achieve this goal, the state and the municipality have a responsibility to manage each crown in the best possible way. The money is the citizens' money and should be used carefully. Every time money is used in the wrong way, tax standards are eroded. To state clearly how the money is spent and the purpose of the initiative should be a matter of course for every politician. In a globalised economy, the capital tax system is mainly exposed to competition. Capital taxes must therefore be competitive. Taxation of income, goods, services or other forms of taxation shall not undermine ownership and shall be governed by fiscal principles such as tax after viability and equal treatment. It is important that tax rules are designed as easily as possible to facilitate, among other things, small businesses. Precisely with regard to the simplicity of the tax system, we all have a homework to do. It is now too much for an entrepreneur to do everything right without external help. We must all take responsibility for the simplicity and logic of the tax system. Unfortunately, this government, like previous governments, has managed to create more rules to relate to rather than fewer. We have a common responsibility to try to resolve this. With common forces, I am convinced that we can make a difference on this issue. There is a need for fewer rules for small businesses to deal with, not more. Under the Social Democratic-led government, central welfare services in health care, care and security have deteriorated sharply. It is remarkable that, despite the boom of the government and an alleged great scope for reform, the government is faced with this fact. Despite 40 billion in reform space in 2018, which is growing to over 70 billion by 2020, there are no structural reforms in key areas. Queues in care are doubled, LSS is withdrawn for individuals, the number of places in retirement homes is undersized and the shortage of health professionals and teachers is quite obvious. Instead of reducing taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship, the government has increased them during its term of office, especially for those who have studied and worked hard. Half are currently paying government income tax, which is far more than originally intended. The government's budget seems to aim for more and more people to pay government income tax, which is the wrong way to go. 63 different taxes against the freedom of people and companies have been raised. The right to deduct gifts for charitable purposes has also been abolished, and the current draft budget also increases the tax on savings. If taxes are to govern, you should reward savings and gifts to non-profit organisations. This government has done just the opposite: Don't bother saving for your future pension! As an individual, don't think about gifts to non-profit organisations – that's what the government does best! Our draft budget restores many of the taxes raised by the government. For example, we are removing the special wage tax for older people. In addition, vulnerable groups such as young people, new arrivals and the long-term unemployed receive income tax reductions that make it profitable to take a job – perhaps at lower wages if necessary. We would prefer the emphasis in future discussions to be on reducing the tax burden, but also on redeployment where labour taxes are reduced and where necessary more directed towards consumption. Taxation shall be designed in such a way as to favour work while countering the consumption of finite resources, environmental emissions and other environmentally harmful activities. We see that in future efforts are being made to broaden the VAT base so that general VAT can be reduced. We believe that a general reduction in the tax burden benefits both citizens and states. During the alliance government periods 2006 – 2014, the tax burden was reduced from 46 per cent to 43 per cent of GDP. It was a positive development that contributed both to greater freedom for individuals and families and to increased incentives for work and entrepreneurship. In the future, it should also be an end in itself to reduce the tax burden, but any tax reduction must also be balanced against other urgent welfare priorities. The Christian Democrats want to re-establish the welfare pledge to our pensioners by means of a very large tax reduction that immediately eliminates the difference in taxation between pensioners and wage earners and, in addition, a significantly improved housing supplement. For the senio rer who wants to work, we take away the tax increases of the S ocial democrats and lower the job tax. Our older people are also needed in the labour market. Although the promises made by the S Ocial Democrats were large to the pensioner groups in the run-up to the elections, they have not been able to live up to this. However, the Christian Democrats have in their budget now to abolish pensioner tax. It is possible for the government to do so today – it is only to vote for the Christian Democrats' proposal.
i-9675611e6eb05064-606	Madam President, I would like Before I go into our tax policy, I want to take a look back. Two years ago, the bourgeois parties strongly criticised the government's policy with allegations that politics would not lead to more jobs and that we would not be able to cope with the economy. The rhetoric was based on the idea that there was no qualified assessor or external analyst who believed in government policy. Last year, the rhetoric was that our policy was compromised by symbolism. How'd it go? Now we've got it in hand. Today, 200 000 more people go to work than when the government took office, and youth unemployment is the lowest in 14 years. This puts us in a completely new position compared to the bourgeois deficit economy with tax cuts on borrowed money. Sweden has a completely different and in Europe almost unique position of economic strength. Our growth is stronger than that of most comparable countries, and the government budget is now showing significant surpluses. About 40 billion are being spent on reforms, and about 40 billion are being amortised by public debt. There's order in public finances. Now that surpluses are growing and public debt is the lowest since 1977, we are all well pleased. This has been a great job for the government and the outstanding Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. These have been tough priorities and necessary reorientations. For example, in the tax area, inefficient tax rebates that did not create jobs have been abolished. The tax burden is much talked about in this House; it is the ratio between tax revenue and GDP. It is on the same level as in the mid-1970s: 43.8 per cent. In the next few years it will fall by a few tenths. These figures are not often seen in the tax debate. Sweden also has the highest employment rate since 1992, and industry reports labour shortages in many sectors and in many areas. But the economy and the labour market still face challenges. The housing market is not doing well. There is over-indebtedness, and there are housing queues. Unemployment is too high and too long-term among the Swedes who have immigrated to Sweden. The tax system needs a new tax reform. It is more than 25 years since we agreed on the latest tax reform, and then even the internet did not exist in the same way as today. So it is clear that the world has changed and that we need tax reform. There we Social Democrats do not fear cross-block discussions and compromises. Madam President, I would like Why do you pay taxes? Well, it's because the Swedish model is based on a general and tax-funded welfare. In this budget we invest heavily: 43.8 billion in concrete investments in jobs, welfare, school, security and climate. Of course, we are doing this to create an equal, fairer and hopefully more successful society in the future. This is a well-proven Social Democratic policy. This is how we want to develop the Swedish model. The government is now lowering the tax rate for 1 1⁄2 million pensioners as early as 2018. Three out of four pensioners receive reduced tax. By 2020, we will completely remove the gap. From next year, all old-age pensioners with income below 17,000 a month will not be subject to this unfair penalty tax. We are reducing the income gap up to 35 000. We shall honor and honor our fathers and mothers – not tax them. The gap will be removed by 2020. We also start the journey by reducing the tax on people with sickness and activity benefits. Nearly 3 million wage and salary earners will receive a tax reduction when the tax reduction on trade union contributions is introduced. We are changing tax rules for employee options and improving the possibilities for small and innovative companies to recruit and retain key employees. More people will dare to start their own business when the social protection net is strengthened for entrepreneurs, and more will be able to do their first job thanks to growth support. Madam President, I would like As far as the tax committee's remit is concerned, a previous speaker mentioned that Sweden is an open and export-dependent country, and that is quite true. But we must have order at the borders of the country. The illegal trade in alcohol, drugs and weapons is fuelling serious organised crime, which must be combated. Therefore, in this year's budget, the Customs Agency receives its largest contribution of more than a decade. The IRS got its upgrade last year, and we have followed it up this year. Madam President, I would like Last year there was almost a doomsday debate on the proposal on excise duties on chemicals in certain white goods. We introduced a chemical tax of $8 per kilogram for white goods. It wasn't what the critics said. The companies did not leave Sweden due to this environmental tax. Now it's a bit the same rhetoric about the airline tax. Many people who speak out in favour of green tax shifting in theory get very cold feet when the concrete excise duties on environmentally harmful activities are to be introduced. Madam President, I would like Work on implementing the government's ten-point anti-tax evasion programme continues. During our term of office, we have, as I said, increased the resources for the Swedish Tax Agency to work against fraud and tax evasion. International cooperation on tax evasion and tax planning has been going on for a long time. It was, of course, accentuated when the Panama documents became known. Now the so-called paradise leak is even more topical. We Social Democrats welcome these new rules and procedures. The committee has some such questions every month before the government negotiations within the EU. Every time it feels solemn that we can be involved in combating tax planning and promoting fair competition in the markets. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal and would like to conclude by saying that the good economy is laying the foundations for the reform work of the next parliamentary term. Now this strength will be used both responsibly and fairly. Government debt will continue to decrease, while at the same time we will use Sweden's economic position so that everyone will have access to our nation's successes.
i-9675611e6eb05064-625	Madam President, I would like Jörgen Hellman of the Social Democrats beats his chest a little bit in the speech he just gave. He was right, and others were wrong. He said it's going great. We can agree that the international economic climate makes the Swedish export industry strong, and thus prospers Sweden. At the same time, however, we also see concerns and challenges: lack of housing, duplication of care queues during the time that this government has been sitting and more than half of those who leave primary school without being approved. It takes nine years for a work force with foreign origin to enter the labour market in Sweden. This requires reforms. They chose Jörgen Hellman and the Social Democrats not to present to the Swedish parliament, and thus also lack the opportunity to address the challenges that many today experience in everyday life. Thus, from the turn of the year onwards, in Sweden's Social Democrats, an intensive care nurse, a midwife, a high school teacher and a customs official will be a high wage earner. I do not really believe that this government has thought through its tax policy at a time when, as it says itself, Sweden is flourishing. Tax - surgical precision reaches broad occupational groups, who work hard every day to get more patients and students to their rights in our welfare country. What makes point taxing those who work hard, strain themselves and do a little extra? Why should they pay 50% tax at the upcoming salary audit, Jörgen Hellman?
i-9675611e6eb05064-630	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions. It is clear that the government has reconsidered its tax policy. That was the first thing the government had to do, because it inherited a large deficit from the previous government and, of course, had to use a lot of force in fiscal policy to achieve budgetary balance. After that, there have been surpluses, and we can now use the strength of the economy to make the structural reforms that we feel we need. One example is to reduce the tax on pensioners. With regard to tax policy, which Cecilia Widegren refers to, it is said that those groups become high-income earners. Often in the rhetoric you say that you care about those who earn a little less. However, if you read your tax proposals, you can see that those who earn 60 000 a month receive almost twice as much tax reduction as those who earn 30 000 a month. It is not as you claim, that you protect low-income earners, but it is your traditional policy that you have always had: you benefit those who earn more at the expense of those with lower incomes.
i-9675611e6eb05064-633	Madam President, I would like I understand that the Social Democrats avoid answering the question. If you have a tax policy that takes 50% of future salary audits from nurses, high school teachers and customs officials, I too would not be able to defend that policy. It is about those who try every day to make a difference for patients and those who work at school so that the students will reach approved grades and be better equipped for the future. They are the core of well-being. They are now electing this government to excise by 50 percent. However, for this House and for the Swedish people, the Social Democrats should stand straight and describe why they are doing this. We have a strength in the economy, they say, and they talk about Sweden walking like a train. What, then, is it that allows those who work hard and make a difference – when others are not enough, they make an extra few hours in the emergency room to receive patients, and they make an effort to help other people in their tough everyday lives – are taxed at 50 percent? I think that we in here and the Swedish people should have a reasonable answer as to why they choose to do this and how they have planned to face it at all when they realise that this will become a reality.
i-9675611e6eb05064-635	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Cecilia, for the questions. The Moderates have a high tone. Of course we see all those who work in the public sector. We see the problems in the public sector, which is why we are giving resources to the common sector, so that it can achieve a better level of quality than it is today. Now I come to tax policy. I attended a seminar at TCO yesterday where the Liberal Youth League and SSU spoke about the need for tax reform. I feel that the Centre Party and the Liberals can nevertheless hold a debate on the tax issue. Of course, taxes on labour need to be reduced, but we need to have the same level of income to the state. This will mean that we need to raise other taxes and look at other tax bases. We welcome a cross-block discussion on this. There I feel that the Center Party and the Liberals are on the wagon, and perhaps the Christian Democrats too. But I don't feel that the Moderates are there. A call to Cecilia Widegren is therefore: If you want to achieve this with reduced tax on labour, the Moderates must also be involved in the discussion on how to finance our welfare and on what tax bases and taxes we should have.
i-9675611e6eb05064-639	Madam President, I would like I can answer Jörgen Hellman to the first question, in which he was somewhat insecure: yes, we are happy to join in discussing a new tax reform. If it's landing somewhere, you can always talk about it. Jörgen Hellman spoke about the state of the 2017 budget, which we were so concerned about when we debated it a year ago. I can tell you how it went. There are still equally long queues, if not anymore, to get to health care. 70 000 people have waited more than 90 days for treatment. We still have a pensioner's tax, which the government promised to abolish before the elections, but it is not possible to do so. There is a major investment in elderly care in the Government's 2018 budget with a total of SEK 13 million. Yes, you heard what I said: 13 million kroner! We do not think that you take seriously the fact that there are 5 000 elderly people who have been authorised to move into retirement homes but have not yet had room for them. Jörgen Hellman therefore asked how the current year's budget went. I don't think it went well. On a five-point scale, you wouldn't get four or five. There are, of course, things that are good, but structural reforms, as Jörgen Hellman talks about, shine with their absence. That is what we are trying to correct in our budget. We believe that welfare needs to be restructured. We need to invest in those parts that actually do not work. What the government does is spend money everywhere and hope they fall somewhere. But you can't do that. Money must be invested when necessary and structural reforms must be made. You have to have the courage to get to grips with what's needed. Care is needed. Care for the elderly is needed. I hope that Jörgen Hellman can correct this to the next budget.
i-9675611e6eb05064-644	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Larry Söder! After all, there was not so much tax policy, but they were mostly about how the public sector works. In the municipal sector, the government has contributed SEK 10 billion. Of course, some of this will go to care for the elderly. Then there have been historical investments in health care. It is clear that we have invested in the quality of the public sector. However, I was able to issue a tax issue in Larry Söder's speech, namely that the Christian Democrats would immediately abolish the pensioner's penalty tax. This is what your budget looks like, but pensioners also have to pay by increasing food VAT by 15 billion. This, of course, will affect pensioners. So it is not entirely the case that the Christian Democrats' budget only helps pensioners, but they are still allowed to pay for their pensioner's tax reduction. We don't remove it right away, we de-escalate it. This is because we need resources for health care and the local government sector. That's why we do it step by step. For those who have pensions up to SEK 17 000, we remove the penalty tax, and up to 35 000 we are stepping it down. This is what we stand for.
i-9675611e6eb05064-648	Madam President, I would like The reason I raised the other parts was that Jörgen Hellman talked about how good the budget was. But I can't see that the budget is so good. I also mentioned in my speech that you had a space for reform of EUR 40 billion. Unfortunately, that money was not enough for those in need of LSS, because you want to cut it down there. The budget itself does not show the humanity that I would like to see. Then I would say that we should be very happy that you did not succeed in all the tax reforms that you were about to make. The 3:12 rules were stopped because the Alliance didn't want them. Reepalus's proposal was also put in a moth bag. The government has a big homework to do. When it comes to money for municipalities, you can ask any municipality. You can email me and tell me which municipality thinks you have received too much money from the state. When you talk to the municipalities, you learn that they have far too little money for the commitment that the state says they should have. I still believe that the government has a great homework to do in finding structural reforms. In your budget, there are no structural reforms whatsoever in any area – not in the tax area or in any other area. I believe that a government must dare to make structural reforms. Then there is the pensioner's tax. It is clear that everyone can participate in financing the welfare that we have. But the most important thing, as Jörgen Hellman says, is that a pension is deferred salary and should be taxed accordingly. But Jörgen Hellman does not think so, for his budget does not include that. There he wants pensioners to pay a little more tax and wait for the reduction. I don't think so. That is why I think that the Christian Democrats' budget is much better.
i-9675611e6eb05064-655	Madam President, I would like As far as LSS is concerned, Fredrik Olovsson has successfully answered the questions about court decisions, the problem of interpretation and the investigations that will take place, so I did not intend to comment on that further. Larry Söder brought up the 3:12 rules. It is a tax committee issue, if anything. That's one of the things, Larry, that the parties need to review. How reasonable is it with today's tax system: that you can transfer too much of your wage income to dividends, which are then taxed lower? Consider, for example, a relay doctor who receives a regular salary versus one who has his own firm! It can distinguish quite a few thousands of wages depending on the form of association. It is not reasonable that it is the form of association that should govern what level of income it is. We need to have 3:12 rules somehow. Today's system is not optimal. But, as I said, it's not in the budget. This will be reviewed by the parties. Then, of course, Larry also has a slightly higher tone when it comes to retirement tax. The Christian Democrats have opinion figures of 3 – 4 percent. If there were to be a change of government, I do not think the Christian Democrats would be sitting in a government themselves. They must relate to the policy of the Moderates. The main part of this policy is the deduction of different levels of employment tax, which means that there will be an automatic penalty tax for pensioners. I am not sure that a vote in favour of the Christian Democrats will mean that the penalty tax on pensioners will disappear.
i-9675611e6eb05064-659	Madam President, I would like An important part of the work of the Tax Committee and an important part of the tax system is the work against tax evasion and profit shifting. There, all the parties in the committee have traditionally been fairly united. That is very gratifying, because it is a very important question. This work is primarily driven internationally by an OECD project that has been developed because it wanted to counter the negative effects of globalisation. One of the current issues in this area concerns the establishment of a so-called blacklist to identify and process non-cooperative jurisdictions, as it is commonly termed, i.e. countries that do not want to cooperate in the fight against tax evasion and profit shifting. In the Committee on Taxation, we have raised the issue several times, and there is currently work going on within the EU to draw up such a list. On a couple of occasions, we in the Swedish Democrats have pointed out that we would have to get the EU to also work to include non-cooperative EU countries in this regard. In fact, we have some countries in the EU that can be regarded in some respects as tax havens. This is not what the Social Democrats want to be involved in driving within the Union. I therefore have a question for Jörgen Hellman: why is this not being pursued? That's a very important question. It will undermine the confidence of the European Union if we do not do this.
i-9675611e6eb05064-663	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Olle, for the question. It is extremely important and extremely topical. We saw in the media about paradise leak. We have seen what the Panama documents have led to. I attended the OECD meeting when the BEPS issues were raised many years ago. There has indeed been a development in these matters since then. The strength of the OECD is that the G20 and G8 countries can also adapt to these proposals. It is not just Europe that does so. This has been the strength of the OECD's proposals. They are being implemented more. It is a great job to draw up the tax treaties with the mountains and paradise islands. That has been the focus of this work. Then you can think about: How do we deal with the EU Member States? We must, of course, try to get rules. We must try to ensure that the tax authorities can talk to each other in a simpler way. I think that the EU has come a long way. One example is that the Swedish Tax Agency previously had to request account information. From next year, they get this automatically. So steps are being taken to improve the system. As far as the blacklist is concerned, it is a continuing open discussion. But it is about those countries that are outside EU membership. I don't have time to answer everything. I'll have to do it in the next line.
i-9675611e6eb05064-668	Madam President, I would like Somehow I can understand that Jörgen Hellman slips a little bit on the answer to my question. We fully agree on the horizontal part and on the importance of this work. It contains very many different proposals and measures in terms of transferring information on different types of tax schemes and other things. It's important internationally. The work is well run by the OECD. We think it is the OECD that is the big and important player here that we need to deal with. But precisely the blacklist within the EU risks pulling the EU down a little bit, because it does not point out its own tax havens. When you do not include your own countries on the list, other countries outside the EU will think: Why should you come here and talk? You have your own tax havens that you don't even care about. We in the Swedish Democrats think it is important to be consistent, clear and straight all the way, even in the internal game. That is why we also need to identify those Member States that are not actually doing well in this respect. That's where I want answers from Jörgen Hellman. Why do the Social Democrats not want to be involved in working to strengthen Europe? Instead, in this way, you are weakening Europe in this regard.
i-9675611e6eb05064-671	Madam President, I would like During these two minutes I will be able to answer the question in full. Some of the blacklists are preventive. Know countries that they can come on the blacklist maybe they change activities so they don't come on the blacklist. In this way, the blacklist system is good. Changing rules jointly in the EU means that those EU countries that slip slightly will be forced to comply with them. It is therefore important to be active when it comes to common EU rules. Let me give you an example. It concerns the VAT directive and what we are working on in committee – VAT issues. The more it becomes the same system, the less problems there will be with companies trying to shift profits through VAT transactions and other things. It is then taxed right in the countries where it is to be taxed. Common systems will therefore reduce this, so that some countries do not stand out by slipping the rules. It is also the case that this affects Swedish companies. It affects Swedish multinationals, with increased bureaucracy. That is why we really need to bear in mind what the rules, for example on VAT, have for the effect on entrepreneurs. It's both. But the blacklist applies to countries outside the EU.
i-9675611e6eb05064-676	Madam President, I would like What do I get for the money? So said the chairman of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, who announced his resignation today. There was also a swearing in it, but the content of the question was: What do I get for the money? Of course, since we live in the time we do, this quickly became a hashtag on social media. Some wanted to defend the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise's representatives and meant that we have very high taxes in this country, but the majority, at least as I saw, lined up in different contexts what we actually get. We're getting training. Before we know the alphabet at all, we have to go to preschool. We have the opportunity to go all the way to the university, where we possibly research new medicines or something else extremely advanced, depending on which direction we choose. We have a chance to get medical attention. The person who gives birth or is in the emergency room after an injury receives a bill of one or a few hundred cents, although the actual cost is several thousand crowns. We get care for the elderly as we get older, we get roads and railways and we get much more that we will discuss in this House in the future when we will decide on 27 different other steps in the different areas of expenditure. Today we are setting the framework for state revenue and expenditure. I think we can at least say that we get a lot for the money. The taxes we collect fund the welfare, but they're also supposed to govern. We will strive to have an optimal tax system, a system that promotes innovation and contributes to environmentally smart solutions and also benefits in the best possible way. Madam President, I would like Over the coming decades, we will face a wide range of challenges. It is about the environment and climate, where we need to change developments. It is about integration and establishment in a very broad sense. This is a demographic challenge, where we have many older people who will retire and eventually be in need of care for the elderly, and where fewer people of working age have to work to fund this. We have increased digitalisation and globalisation and opportunities in many ways, but there are also some challenges. We also have an increase in household indebtedness which, in the event of a fall and interest rate rise, can contribute to problems. There are also worrying trends in the spread of income, which are increasing in large parts of the world. The tax system will never be the only solution or the only answer, but it is and remains an important part. In the budget that we are deciding today and also earlier in the legislative term, we have taken many important steps, although further reforms will be needed. We will need to increase the environmental impact of the tax system in the future. Whoever lets it out has to pay for it, too. In this budget we are introducing a tax on flights. It's a cautious treasure. It will need to increase over time, and we also need to use more instruments to reset aircraft, such as changing fuel. We also announce that the travel allowance will need to be changed in the future. Today, it is designed to favour car commuting in metropolitan regions where there are often adequate alternatives. Fortunately, we have seen in two different cross-block agreements that there has been a consensus on changing this. We need to continuously sharpen the taxes so that they control optimally also environmentally. Madam President, I would like Several of the bourgeois parties – the Moderates and above all the Christian Democrats – have proposed a substantial increase in VAT mainly on food and food. I find it interesting to reflect on, because there are other tax increases described in very draconian terms. However, earlier in this debate none of the representatives mentioned these tax increases, which in the case of the Christian Democrats are about SEK 15 billion. Increasing the environmental impact also includes reducing taxes on things that we want to see more of. The government has reduced VAT on repair services and expanded RUT. It is now also introducing VAT support for the smallest enterprises. In this summer's inquiry into the circular economy, it was suggested that a hyber credit, a new service e deduction, be introduced. It is interesting to think about for the next parliamentary term. Overall, this is a green tax shift that leads to improved environment, reduced emissions and increased recycling as well as improved establishment and more jobs – at the same time. That's very good. The Green Party, as several other parties have said here before, wants to see a major tax reform in the next parliamentary term. Of course, the content is crucial to what one should look like, and for us the exchange of taxes is a key element, even if there are more. We do not want too much income inequality between people in society. We have reduced the pensioner's tax in the past and are now moving on with it. Overall, we have a redistribution in society that makes things better. By quite simple means, we could further improve equality and justice. We do so when we prevent tax offences, tax evasion and tax evasion. One thing that would also help to reduce the debt problem would be to phase out the interest deduction. It would also increase financial stability and mobility in the housing market, which would be very good. Madam President, I would like From the debate, it may seem that taxes are constantly increasing. It's not like that. We have a tax rate of about 43 1⁄2%, which is considerably lower than when it was at its highest, in 1990, when the latest tax reform was also made. Sure, the Center Party has suggested that we go down on the OECD average. This would mean that we would have to cut SEK 400 billion from the budget. It is not a policy of the Green Party or the government. I do not know whether this is something that the other bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats are up to, but at least it is not the policy that I want to see. Finally, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-9675611e6eb05064-697	Madam President, I would like Rasmus Ling began with the question: What do we get for the money? We probably agree that we get quite a lot for the money, although we can be more effective with the money that comes in and also use it in other ways. In my speech I actually talked about what was the problem, i.e. longer queues in the health care sector and people waiting in line for a retirement home but who do not have room for it. An equally relevant question I think is: Where does the money come from? Then probably Rasmus Ling and I agree that they sometimes come from the companies that we hope will start, grow and develop in Sweden so that they can hire people, which in turn means that you can pay the tax that we want. We have a problem in Sweden that means that companies do not start and that people do not actually dare to take the responsibility that it entails. It is about the representative responsibility that exists in the tax legislation and which means that, as a representative of a company, where you may be on the board, the day after, for example, employers' contributions are to be received without reminder, this money can be demanded. If you ask those who have experience of sitting on a board of directors, they say that they never sit on a board of directors of a company that is newly started and under development, because it is too great a risk. In fact, they would have to sit on these company boards to help develop these companies. I believe that it stops the creation of companies and stops experienced help for the new, developing companies in the board work. Now the government has set up an investigation to review this. But gross negligence, as stated in the law about this, has not been included in the investigation at all, but only a general investigation. I ask whether the Green Party is behind the investigation or wants to go further.
i-9675611e6eb05064-702	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying to hear that we agree that welfare needs to be developed and improved and that we see the same problems with long queues and other things that need to be addressed in the welfare sector. The question of representative responsibility was answered by Larry Söder himself a little bit. The government has set up an investigation to review it. It is, of course, difficult to answer now, after a few weeks, what the investigation will come up with. We have seen that there have been problems from time to time and that it has also created huge problems. Of course, we need to get away from that. At the same time, it must be a certain responsibility to sit on a company board. This question is not as black or white as it is sometimes presented. I would like to take this opportunity to ask Larry Söder how the Christian Democrats view the future tax charge. Do you have the same view that the Center Party has expressed and want to down to an average OECD level, which means that it is SEK 400 billion to be cut off from the state budget?
i-9675611e6eb05064-705	Madam President, I would like I tried to give Rasmus Ling a hint and an opportunity to talk a little bit about corporate responsibility and that you see the same problem as us, that is, that no people sit on corporate boards if it is required to take the same responsibility as the others when trying to do the right thing and it is not about trying to do the wrong thing or escape tax. Serious negligence, as stated in the law, is a fairly important part. If you do things to clearly evade tax, you should of course go there, but if you try to do the right thing, I mean that the tax debts are of the same type as other debts, such as debts to the company's suppliers. Rasmus Ling didn't take that chance. Obviously, he thinks that taxes are more important than the debts of the companies supplying to companies that have little problem paying. I find this regrettable, because companies must be able to trust that the state is trying to help as much as possible. To pull all entrepreneurs over and tell them that everyone is a tax evader because they are not paying at the right time, I think is quite wrong. But obviously Rasmus Ling does not think so, because he did not want to go further in the investigation and go on gross negligence. As far as the tax rate is concerned, Rasmus Ling forgot one thing, and that is that when you took over government power, the tax rate was 42.5%, that is, it has increased 1% during your reign. That means, I mean, we're going the wrong way. I think that it should be reduced and that the money should be spent as effectively as possible, but, as I said in my speech, it depends on the commitments you have to the citizens. It has to be connected in one way or another. This government is constantly raising taxes. 63 taxes you have raised. Will it be 70, 80, 90 or 100, or when are you satisfied?
i-9675611e6eb05064-710	Madam President, I would like In the coming year, the tax rate will fall, so what Larry Söder says now simply does not add up. We will see what it will look like in the next parliamentary term. On behalf of the Green Party, we do not think that the tax rate should be higher than it is today. But there will be many challenges. The Christian Democrats and Larry Söder talk warmly about care for the elderly, which is an extremely important area, but there are many more, and there is a great need for education and other things that we fund together. Something that I mentioned in my main speech, but which Larry Söder did not mention either in the line shift or in his speech, is about the rather drastic increase in VAT that the Christian Democrats want to do – SEK 15 billion. There is much talk of pensioners getting better. We have removed the tax gap for pensioners with pensions up to SEK 17 000. Larry Söder wants to lower the tax on those who have higher pensions than that and wants to finance it by increasing the VAT on food. This means that any guarantee pensioner, who is in the worst position, will receive higher monthly costs than they currently have. I think we can consider whether this is a fair priority.
i-9675611e6eb05064-712	Madam President, I would like Aviation tax is one of the harmful taxes that I mentioned in my main speech. I did not mention the airline tax by name, but I mentioned a number of harmful taxes. I am a little surprised when I hear Rasmus Ling from the Green Party standing here and saying that it is good to increase the tax on aviation and that it would affect the environmental emissions of aviation. I guess Rasmus Ling then means that there should be less flying, i.e. that we should stop flying to a certain extent. That is what the aviation industry, the travel industry and the companies that depend on aviation in our elongated country think will be the effect. In my perspective, the measure to tax aviation in the belief that you should improve the environment is very strange. When more taxes are imposed on airlines, their profitability will decrease. This means that they are less able to invest in new, more environmentally friendly aircraft, engines, new fuel systems and other things that could make aviation more environmentally friendly. It can't be that Rasmus Ling thinks that important transport and necessary passenger transport for companies should be removed? Maybe you should go up to Luleå or something? Above all, why do we want to remove the conditions for airlines to buy more environmentally friendly aircraft?
i-9675611e6eb05064-716	Madam President, I would like It is a great pleasure that the issue of airline tax comes up for discussion here. The Swedish democrats are known to have a total lack of interest in everything called the environment and climate. The leading representatives responsible for environmental issues even deny that there are problems at all with global warming. It is great that this issue comes up. The aviation tax, as proposed in the budget, is at a very prudent level. It is about SEK 60 for domestic travel and within the EU and up to SEK 400 for the longest trips. If it had been higher, it would have had a clearer environmental impact. It would also have had a greater impact on the airlines who will have to pay for it. But now we start at a cautious level and then we need to go up. This is not the only instrument that we will need to change. We will also have to change fuel in the same way as we do on the passenger car side. In Norway, where this air tax has been applied, it has led to more efficient transport. The aircraft that are still operating have a higher occupancy rate. Norway is more dependent on aviation than we are in Sweden, and the fact that it has gone there probably shows that it will go very well here too. Olle Felten rallies over companies that ride friendly trains to Luleå. I do not think that companies that take environmental and climate issues seriously and that use the train, whether it is north towards Norrbotten and Luleå, south or somewhere else, should be disadvantaged in the way that happens today. The flight is completely exempt from tax, which distinguishes it from all other modes of transport. We should not disadvantage companies that go ahead and have the environment and climate as part of their business idea.
i-9675611e6eb05064-722	Madam President, I would like The point is that the Green Party counteracts environmental improvements through its harmful tax proposals. That's the point, Rasmus Ling. You are removing the conditions for the aviation industry in Sweden to make investments to improve the environment. We need air transport. We can't go slow when we're going from southern to northern Sweden. It can be 1,000 miles, and sometimes you need to transport quickly. It's nothing strange, it's absolutely necessary. Rasmus Ling from the Green Party acts together with the red parties to reduce the conditions for making the necessary transports more environmentally friendly. This is the sad thing. The aviation industry has come up with numerous studies and reports showing that this is the case. This cannot be avoided by Rasmus Ling, but it is the question to which I would like an answer: why does the Green Party want to reduce the conditions for the aviation industry to change its fleet and become more environmentally friendly?
i-9675611e6eb05064-725	Madam President, I would like Since 1990, emissions from the aviation industry, both in Sweden and globally, have increased several times. Almost everyone thinks this is a problem. A large majority in the Swedish parliament and a large majority of the world's countries think this is a major problem. The Swedish democrats do not seem to think so. Why do I say that? Because the Swedish Democrats consistently say no to all the proposals, regulations and instruments put forward, whether it concerns chemicals or emissions from agriculture. They say no to investing in high-speed trains or existing trains, and they say no to air taxes. They say 'yes' only to motorways and other things that increase emissions. The flight is sometimes needed – it does – but we have to make a change, especially on the distances that are not 1,500 km, but which lie in the region of 50-800 km. There the railway should be the natural way of travelling, for individuals but preferably also for companies. This requires that the train is fast, smooth and reliable. It must also be neutral rules. When we benefit from flying and have it completely untaxed, it is no wonder that many will choose the flight. That's not how we should have it.
i-9675611e6eb05064-729	Madam President, I would like The tax system shall be designed to ensure long-term financing of public activities. Taxes will help, among other things, to close income and wealth gaps, and they will be tools in the transition to an environmentally sustainable society. Therefore, the primary task of fiscal policy is to finance the common welfare, various social functions and other public expenditure. In addition, it will also create the conditions for sustainable growth, high employment and fair prosperity. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, the Left Party has long been a driving force in the construction of a large public sector in the economy, financed by progressive and solidarity-based taxation of citizens and businesses – a common and solidarity-based sector based on the principle of each one according to ability, for each one as needed. Therefore, the Left Party has chosen many initiatives that go to welfare, including the fair emigrating to the betrayed Sweden. A ten-year multi-billion-dollar initiative will now be introduced that will affect many mills, rural municipalities, socially vulnerable districts and suburbs around Sweden. The money should be applied for by municipalities that have areas characterised by, for example, high unemployment, low levels of education, socio-economic vulnerability and low voting turnout. Madam President, I would like When we see how labour law is eroded by bourgeois policy, we are making efforts that give almost 3 million wage earners a tax cut when tax reductions for trade union contributions are introduced. The Left Party has already pushed through several increases in maintenance support, and now we are doing it again. Madam President, I would like Despite its role as an opposition party, the Left Party has managed to push through important budgetary initiatives that lead to a more equal Sweden: summer holiday support for activities for children and young people, which are being expanded, free swimming school, strengthening of the upper secondary school's introduction programme, increased study grants, cancelled carer's day in the unemployment fund, reduced tax rates for people with sickness and activity benefits, increased sickness allowance ceilings, increased housing allowance for old-age pensioners and people with SA benefits, and so on, as mentioned here before. To achieve this, a workable and solidarity-based tax system is needed – a tax system in which everyone is right and pays his share of the tax. I came to Sweden a little more than 20 years ago from a small country in West Africa. My parents had a working background, and the only thing I had much of on my journey here were big dreams — dreams of a better life for me and my family. I had the opportunity to go to school, learn Swedish and go to college and university to educate me. I used health care, and I got a family, which led to the use of childcare facilities. Now the children go to school, and I – me! – is in the Swedish Parliament. It hasn't been an easy trip. It was tough, but what a journey! All of this was made possible because people were doing well and paying taxes that were used to finance welfare. A solidarity-based tax policy made my journey possible. Then it is only right, Madam President, that now that I have financial conditions and the ability to pay taxes to enable a similar journey for others who come after me, I am doing just that: paying taxes. That is what a solidarity and fair tax policy is all about. We live in an unfair, unsustainable and unreasonable world. In accordance with the logic of the capitalist system, more and more wealth is being accumulated in a few hands, while billions of the world's population are being held down in poverty and freedom. The gaps are widening, and greedy venture capitalists and high wage earners use tax planning to keep billions away from the tax revenue. Tax collection is passed on to economically weaker groups in society. Capital exploits every difference in social rights to maximise its profits. Workers are being pitted against each other. Trade union rights are being attacked and weakened. Combating tax evasion and aggressive tax planning remains a high political priority for the Left Party. Madam President, I would like Sweden has strong economic growth today, but the economic growth that has nevertheless taken place has made the rich richer, while at the same time revealing the lack of political will to distribute society's resources fairly. Madam President, I would like The budget presented by the Alliance, headed by the Moderates, is based on the fact that sick, unemployed and newcomers will pay for tax cuts for those who already have a job. Savings on the sick and unemployed are achieved by around 7.5 billion. This policy has been tried, and there were no more jobs. On the contrary, unemployment and disparities increased during the time of the Alliance. However, it is remarkable to see how the Alliance with the Moderates at the head for various reasons has chosen not to prioritise this. They have chosen to hunt war refugees instead of tax evasion and to chase undocumented fugitives instead of following the aper trail and chasing the international economic criminals. But hopefully the latest revelations in p aradise papers are an eye-opener for the government and the Swedish people. Madam President, I would like Behind every stressed teacher, burned-out nurse, socionomist and police, there is a greedy venture capitalist and tax evader. Madam President, I would like It is sad to see that the Alliance still believes in its miracle cure that reduced taxes would provide more jobs when we have already tried this for eight years. There were no more jobs, even though there were record reductions in taxes. It is particularly worrying to see the Alliance proposing the same ineffective medicine in combination with the tightening up of unemployment funds and health insurance now that sick leave is only increasing. I think it is very worrying and backward. Madam President, I would like It is said that the definition of madness is when you continue to do the same thing over and over again and expect different results. It is therefore perhaps time for the Alliance to review its policy. This policy is based on an economic calculation based on a reversed Robin Hood policy. It is based on the fact that the rich have too little money and that the poor have too much money. You take from the poor and give to the rich, from workers to venture capitalists, from the nurse, from the police, from the teacher, from the welder to venture capital companies. You lower the taxes for the rich and lower the wages for the poor. This can never be a reasonable, fair and fair distribution policy. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report. But I would like to conclude with something that my party leader Jonas Sjöstedt said the other day about what your policy means. A cashier at Willys pays a larger share of her income in taxes than the owner of the food chain Willys, who is a billionaire. Madam President, I would like This is neither right nor fair redistribution policy.
i-9675611e6eb05064-750	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to ask Momodou Jallow whether this was his first speech in Parliament.
i-9675611e6eb05064-751	Congratulations. Much of what you say, Momodou Jallow, we have heard your predecessor talk about in the past. I bounced a bit when you talked about an extensive public service and you're proud that it's an end in itself. You are welcome to develop this – if you think it is an end in itself, or if we are actually going to have a public service based on people having the needs they need satisfied, i.e. that they get help from the state when they need help, but that people otherwise should be able to make their own decisions. Momodou, you spoke very well about your personal journey. I think it's good to find out a little about you as a person. But there are also people here in Sweden who have made a personal journey through the construction of LSS operations in Sweden. It has become a right to be able to get help and support to the extent needed. I know that the Christian Democrats and the Left Party share the same view on this issue, that is to say that the situation in which the government has put many people into the LSS is not acceptable. As our prime minister would say, it's not okay. People have been made to lose their dignity. Since I believe that the Left Party supports this government, that is to say that you are not an opposition party but a party that supports the government, I wonder: could you help us in the opposition to actually get this through? The government obviously does not understand the problem. The government wants to postpone the problem until after the next election. I believe that the Left Party and the Christian Democrats on this issue share the same view that we must do something about this for the people here and now. How can you help us?
i-9675611e6eb05064-757	Madam President, I would like I agree with you, Larry Söder, on the LSS issue. As I said in my speech, it is very important for the Left Party to have its support based on needs. It is important that tax money is used for this and nothing else. As you said, people lose their dignity in this process because of bureaucracy. We do not think that is acceptable. We have been very clear that we think that the people who need help should receive the help they need. We will continue to work for that from the Left Party. Despite our cooperation with S, MP and the government, we are still an opposition party. We are very clear about that. We're not part of the government. That is why we cannot take responsibility for what the government is doing. What we can do is to use our position as an opposition party to try to influence as much as possible with our policy, and that is what we have done in the budgetary negotiation in which we have participated. With regard to what you mentioned about public activities, we think it is very important that as much as possible of taxpayers' money is used to help the people living in this country. We have seen how public activity, for example in terms of welfare, has cracked. We have seen how well-being is being dismantled. It is a very important issue for us that welfare, which people have worked for many years to build, should be maintained so that everyone who needs to use welfare should receive the help they need. It's not the win that should decide, it's the need. It's left-wing politics.
i-9675611e6eb05064-763	Madam President, I would like Momodou Jallow can tell me how many times you think you are an opposition party. However, on the day you say that you do not support the government that we now have, that government no longer exists. In my view, you are responsible for the government policy being pursued. You will have to cover all the decisions taken by this government, because you support it. That is why my entry into this is: how can you support a government that removes the right to dignity for people by reducing the LSS in this way? It's your responsibility. You are one of three parties responsible for the policy of this government. You should take this responsibility by making greater demands on the government. I do not believe that the people of Sweden believe that you are saying that you are an opposition party. Because on the day you say you do not support the government's budget, this government falls. It's a fact. Then you told me that welfare is cracking. Yes, it does. 70 000 people have waited more than 90 days for the care to which they are actually entitled. 5 000 people are in line for a retirement home that they have been granted. Yes, well-being is cracking. And you are jointly responsible for that, because this government is not making any structural reforms to change this. It is not funny to be, like you, a party that supports the government without sitting in it. I'm aware of that, Momodou. But I think we can shake hands on the LSS issue and tell the government that it must change its mind, whether we are in opposition or in government. For this is unworthy of the people who need the LSS. I think the Left Party is so strong that they can actually do it. The Green Party and the Social Democrats do not see this need but want to wait until after the elections. Do not let them push this issue forward. People are worth a better fate.
i-9675611e6eb05064-768	Madam President, I would like As I said, I do not disagree with what has to do with the LSS. Just as you say, people are worth a lot more. We should not let people suffer because of bureaucracy. I agree with that 100%. With regard to the public sector in particular, I would like to emphasise very strongly that we are not part of the government. We are trying to influence our policies. We are negotiating, as is done in any other policy, and we are trying to achieve the policy that we stand for. That's what we've done. That does not in any way mean that we are part of the government. I want to make that clear. We may not agree on this, but I would like to make it very clear that we are not part of this government. We do our best to influence politics in Sweden, just like everyone else does and just like you do. With regard to the LSS, the public sector and everything else in Sweden that we have talked about, it is very important to also talk about the problem and the cause of the problem. The reason why many people in the welfare sector – policemen, teachers, nurses and others – are on their knees is that there has been a policy based on tax cuts. We cannot finance welfare without tax revenue. If we do not have tax revenue, we cannot finance this important core, and then our important institutions in society will not function as intended. It's a policy you stand for, Larry Söder. It is a policy that you stood for for eight years, when you repeatedly lowered the tax on the rich. It has affected these very important social functions, and we must be able to talk about that.
i-9675611e6eb05064-772	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1 in this report on the autumn amending budget. It is a budget which, unlike the state budget, is designed to make changes in state expenditure for the current year because the ordinary budget has not been sufficient. In the last two years, we have seen party after party reconsider its policy in several areas. This is positive; there is a need for more politicians who can admit that they have been wrong in their early assessments. However, the big question remains: has one reconsidered or adapted one's policy? So has it been reconsidered because it genuinely believes in its new positions, or has it been adapted because it is a popular position in the electorate? It remains to be seen. Time will tell if you can go from words to deeds. What we can see, however, is that the Swedish Democrats are entirely alone in submitting a counter-proposal for the government's amending budget here today. It's not the first time it's happened either. Why is that? Is it because there is no commitment to the amending budget? It is possible that this is the case in some parties. Or is it because, as in this budget, almost 7 billion more immigration policies are not considered bad? You might think that the queues in the care should not be shorter. Perhaps one is satisfied with the security of our suburbs. You don't see integration problems as a problem. When we talk about integration, it can mean different things depending on who you ask. The vast majority of parties seem to agree that they are part of Swedish society when they have worked at least one hour a week. This also includes participation in various subsidised labour market policies. The Swedish Democrats do not share this view; we think it is a very generous definition. What is interesting in this context, however, is that this can be measured in the so-called employment gap, i.e. the difference in employment between domestic and foreign born. The fact is that nothing indicates that the employment gap is narrowing or will decrease, despite a favourable age profile among newcomers and despite a boom. On the contrary, everything indicates that it will increase when the next recession strikes. Madam President, I would like A shadow society is also emerging in the background. I am thinking mainly of the quite large number of Afghan men who have come here. I recently read an article interviewing a police officer on this very subject, and he explained that many of them meet a sad fate. They end up in crime, abuse and prostitution. What struck me, however, is that they came here with dreams of gold and green forests, but in the article there is evidence of a marked hatred of Sweden. One can discuss where responsibility for this lies. Although the Social Democrats and the Green Party do not agree on how to deal with this issue, it is in fact this government that motivated these people to come here from the very beginning – a mistake for which all the parties involved are now suffering. I would therefore like to ask three questions on this. Firstly, how many of the 80 000 promised expulsions have been carried out? Secondly, how many of these 80 000 have gone underground? The third question goes to the Moderates, which I note has left the Chamber. Nevertheless, I ask the question: why are you not voting today in favour of a stop to additional appropriations for migration-related expenditure? Madam President, I would like In the amending budget, it is not possible to propose new initiatives or initiatives that are larger than those of the government. That is why this bill is all about what you should not spend money on. For the Swedish Democrats, it is obvious to act when we are not satisfied with the priorities the government makes. To do nothing is the same as to accept politics and accept social development in general. The fact that we are presenting an alternative to the autumn amending budget is therefore of as high symbolic value as it is of practical importance. Although we are unlikely to get our proposal through today's vote, we can say with our heart that we have done everything in our power to bring about a change – a Swedish-democratic exclusive right which shows that we are the optimal counter-pollution against the policy and the only real opposition party. Madam President, I would like In the socio-economic terminology, there is something called a "alternative cost". That's what you have to refrain from doing. If you ask the Swedish people which areas are most important, safety and health care always come high on the list. That is no wonder; we have more attacks than ever on bluelight personnel. Suburban gangs in numerically superior positions to the police mean that we cannot guarantee security either for the citizens or for the police themselves. We have medical care on our knees – patients are flown to other countries for surgery, and women are forced to feed in the back of the car because of closed-down BB departments. Almost SEK 7 billion of total funding changes can be directly attributed to migration and integration policies. To get a sense of that figure, I'll give it something concrete. SEK 7 billion corresponds to the cost of the Security Service times four, 160 000 full-time positions for nurses or 17 000 annual salaries for police officers. For SEK 7 billion, we could have increased police salaries by SEK 2 000 per month, doubled public health spending or drastically short care queues. This, Madam President, is the alternative cost of mass immigration.
i-9675611e6eb05064-787	Madam President, I would like No matter how we plan and no matter how well we prepare for the future, it always arrives with one or other surprise in its luggage. Our system of budgeting and deciding on this in Parliament takes this uncertainty into account. The uncertainty also applies to the government and the very carefully assessed expenditure and revenue in the budget. The estimates are made in August of the year before the budget is due to come to an end, which is why we have amending budgets. Most parties in Parliament tend to think that amending budgets are something you don't need to put so much effort into, because it is the government or government parties that change their own budget. That is also why there is a little blank on the list of speakers in this matter, I think. Despite the fact that this has not happened very unexpectedly and unexpectedly, and despite the fact that there are no spectacular items in the amending budget, some changes have been proposed. The Swedish democrats have also reserved against them. I will mention some of the points raised in the reservation. You think the Sameskollstyrelsen hasn't done their job and we should have better control of their money. It is also an assignment that the Swedish Financial Control Agency receives in the budget bill – or, rather: The government says that you should give that assignment. It is thought wrong that we are spending money on solar cells, where there has been a queue that we are now making sure to graze the contributions to. It is also upset that the start-up allowance is increasing. However, it does so because the right to parental insurance has changed. There the state saves much more money on the groups that today come to Sweden with children who are in pre-school age; they do not receive as long parental insurance. On the other hand, the start-up allowance increases, although less. In the case of appropriations for Category 8, this is not an uncontrolled increase. It is about the municipalities' applications for compensation, which are larger than what has been adopted in the budget bill. More applications have also been assessed as being able to be handled in 2017, which is why the amount is larger. It is also so in the process that you need public assistants. This, of course, should not obscure the picture of migration being an appropriation where costs will now be reduced to a very large extent. The number of places to live is falling rapidly. The expenditure area will be more than halved in 2018 compared to this year, and it is expected to fall further – by one third – in 2019. It is therefore the long-term perspective in this area of expenditure. Madam President, I would like I would like to state that, by keeping good budgetary margins, the government ensures that there is room for this type of adjustment during the current financial year without the risk of creating any cracks in our budgetary framework or in our very strong public finances. Next year, we will amortise over 40 billion on the public debt, but even this year the outcome seems to be good. I therefore call for the proposal to be rejected in the committee's report.
i-9675611e6eb05064-797	Madam President, I would like Maintaining confidence in the judiciary requires that all elements are legally secure and effective. Of course, the police, prosecutors, courts and prisons must be constantly developed and streamlined. The Swedish National Audit Office has a controlling and driving function. The report on the effectiveness and productivity of district courts – i.e. how many goals are decided – is the subject of the R iksrevision report today. It is important that all parts of the judiciary, and of course all government agencies, take the reports from the Swedish National Audit Office very seriously. Much of today's discussions in the rule of law concern the suspension of trials. Each year, 6% of the planned criminal proceedings are suspended. Missing defendants are the main reason why they have not been reached for service. Criminal proceedings that are repeatedly suspended due to a lack of service affect trust in the courts. The fact that relatively many simple criminal cases are time-barred before a court is given the opportunity to review the case also affects the confidence of the judges. The costs of a lawyer, as well as of witnesses and plaintiffs, are also a consequence. The Court of Justice has therefore set in motion a work to ensure in every way that the tools available to serve the defendants are actually used by the law enforcement authorities. There are a wide range of measures and tools that can be used, but a survey of the cancellations has shown that they have not been used. If each link in the chain were to work, an alert set targets would go down most significantly. The work of sharing all district courts' knowledge is now moving forward. It is proof that the work of district courts can and should be made more efficient. One measure is the rapid procedure to be put in place by the prosecution on trial. At two court-martials, work on a so-called fast-track procedure will start from 1 January. For crimes such as drunk driving, the investigation is carried out at the crime scene and notified immediately to the suspect. Time for trial is also set out in the very near future. This work will start at the end of the year, and only hope for success. I have now described two different procedures that will most likely contribute to greater efficiency, and I am sure that everyone will welcome this. I therefore support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-9675611e6eb05064-807	Madam President, I would like I do not disagree with Susanne Eberstein in any way. As regards the Swedish National Audit Office's report, it is important to note that the efficiency of the courts has increased. What can be said about this is that productivity has fallen by about 2% a year. For this reduction there are two explanations, which are diametrically opposite. The first explanation is that you have too much resources in relation to the workload. The alternative explanation is that there are more complicated cases, which is also a general trend that we can see with regard to the courts. We have a specific opinion on this subject but no other request. The budget proposal includes a heading on expenditure category 4 The judiciary, which is known as: a brake on the flow at the beginning of the legal chain. There, the government says that the number of reasonably suspected persons, the number of cases reported to prosecutors, the number of suspected offences received by the Prosecutor's Office and the number of persons solved offences showed clear increases in the years after 2006, followed by marked reductions in recent years. This is of course worrying, not least given that the police reported 26 percent fewer cases to prosecutors in 2016 than in 2006. Now the government invests more money in the judiciary than in the past, but it does not invest as much as the Moderates. I think we should expect more criminal cases to come to the courts. This is a quite natural consequence of efforts on the judicial system in general. As I said, we are investing much more, and we also expect results. We think it is fundamentally wrong for the government to remove money from the courts on a one-off basis, for example for the financing of a new insolvency register with the Swedish Companies Registration Office and the Swedish Enforcement Authority. It also reduces the funding from 2018 to finance the increase in funding to the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office and the Swedish Financial Crime Authority. Now I've just been talking about criminal cases. As far as disputes are concerned, we see a great deal of concern on the market, but it is rather difficult to see how the development of civil cases will be seen. Thus, one cannot expect either one or the other, but the forecast may still be that there will be more disputes than before. The important thing here is that we do not reduce different tranches and that more money is made available, as we Moderates do. We pass more money to the courts to be on the safe side and avoid the usual twitching. We are also doing this because we have expectations that other efforts on the judiciary will be made to produce results. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal.
i-9675611e6eb05064-816	Madam President, I would like Of course, every penny invested in the judiciary is great, but I don't know if the half percent that the Moderates, unlike us, spend on the courts will make so much difference. I rather believe that it is the day-to-day, hard work of skilled officials that will increase efficiency. I find it hard to believe that the very half of the increase in appropriations to the courts would mean so much. We're making a huge effort on the police. We hope that this will not only mean that the number of police officers will increase, but also that more jobs will be done, because that is what we are missing today.
i-9675611e6eb05064-818	Madam President, I would like If they are so-called giant ventures, they are still not as big as the Moderates. Apart from that, however, there must be some expectation that this will lead to some result, and it is surely wrong in principle to reduce the appropriations to the courts in order to finance the increase in the appropriations to the Prosecutor's Office and the Swedish Financial Crime Authority. This, of course, is also a way of sending signals. I myself once participated in the streamlining work that took place in the courts and know that this has been done in a very good way. It is ultimately about people, as Mrs Eberstein says, but it is perhaps the case that the government does not really believe that the other efforts on the judiciary will increase the workload of the courts. That is what this boils down to. You can talk about half a percent here or there, but it doesn't matter that much. If you show that efforts are being made, you may also show that you believe that the courts will do more work on both criminal and incoming litigation.
i-9675611e6eb05064-821	Madam President, I would like To the 5.6 billion that the government spends on the judiciary, the Moderates and the others add about 0.5 percent. I don't know if it's a very strong signal to the courts that they mean a lot more in the eyes of the Moderates than in ours. I do not think that 5.6 billion plus 0.5% is what will make a difference to the efficiency that we actually demand from the courts. As for the investments in the police, which are greater than they have ever been, I think, there should also be demands for greater efficiency. However, as I said, the difference of 0.5% in appropriations is perhaps not what will determine whether the courts are more efficient or not. I don't think so.
i-9675611e6eb05064-824	Madam President, I would like It is perhaps not ultimately about efficiency, because we are talking about both efficiency and productivity. I've focused more on productivity here. Many factors play a role in both efficiency and productivity. However, I can only mention that as late as Monday I visited the police in Uppsala. There is a much higher account of the number of cases that go to prosecutors than elsewhere in the country. Reaching a higher accounting is quite simple. If you report preliminary investigations of sufficient quality, many of them are quite certain to be prosecuted and become cases in the district court. If you have any expectations, at least I do not think that you should take money from the courts to finance the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office and the Swedish Financial Crime Agency. Otherwise, it will make it even more that is generated in the form of prosecutions to the courts. It always sounds like this when you're discussing amounts. Every effort made by the government is incredibly important, no matter how small it is. As far as the efforts of the opposition and the Moderates are concerned, any such action on our part is very insignificant, contrary to the efforts of the government. You have to have some idea of how this is connected. I think that the idea of seeing better results in the judicial system in general leads to more money being spent on the courts and also on the judiciary in general. The Moderates are investing more in everything compared to the government.
i-9675611e6eb05064-830	Madam President, I would like There is always something between the yards to rejoice about. In this report, it is, among other things, that the government has met the Swedish Democrats in terms of the penalties for the serious weapons crimes. As early as the first year of this parliamentary term, the Swedish Democrats proposed that the penalties for serious weapons crimes should be tightened so that those who walk around with a sharp-charged weapon or automatic weapon in the city could be arrested directly instead of being released. On that occasion, the government saw no need for a change of law but considered that the law was well balanced as it was. Nor did any alliance party disagree with the proposals of the Swedish Democrats; they therefore also felt that the law was well balanced as it was. This is the situation as recently as just a year ago when I last asked the former Minister for the Interior, Anders Ygeman, whether the government intended to tighten the penalty. Even then, the government could not give a reply, but instead stressed other measures to solve the escalating weapons-related crimes around our country. Finally, however, the token has fallen down on the government. More recreation centres and sausage gratings with felons obviously had no effect. Then you finally look at what the Swedish Democrats have proposed, and you copy and present it as your own policy. It is welcomed from me, Madam President, with a better late than never. This is the big problem with socialists and liberals: one should always try grilling sausages for three years as soon as a new criminal phenomenon emerges. During that time, criminals have time to kill both each other and innocent people. Families with children get their windows blown up or their odder shot. More sausage grilling, says liberals and socialists. Perhaps there should also be more leisure centres or priority in housing queues or to work. Madam President, I would like Sweden needs new political leadership, one that does not always find the answers in the same old policy. We need leadership that takes the social problems seriously that they deserve and acts decisively in time. In this context, in fact, both the bourgeois opposition and the red-green government deserve criticism. Although we are broadly in favour of the majority of the proposals in which the government has landed, we believe that, in addition to the minimum penalty, the various maximum levels of penalties should also be tightened up. For this we have a clear reservation in the report which describes all the details. I support this reservation.
i-9675611e6eb05064-837	Madam President, I would like Guns and explosives – more stringent penalties for the serious crimes are called the bill that we are now dealing with. It's called exactly what it's about, so it's easy to understand the content. The main objective is clear. We know that illegal weapons and hand grenades in society have serious consequences as they can be used in deadly violence. This legislation will help to counter this. I listened a little to the budget debate earlier today, and then, among other things, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson emphasised this particular regulation as an example of everything that the government is doing to tackle crime. Although this is a good thing, the proposal does not, of course, solve the problems on its own; it is also about seeing it in a package together with other efforts to combat crime. Regardless of what the Swedish democrats say, sausage grilling is not included in this package, but it is well punished – also in other areas – and more resources for the entire judiciary, including the police. Customs is also being added to combat illegal weapons. Perhaps the most important thing of all is an investment in welfare. We know that a person's successful schooling is the best way to prevent crime. The government has three proposals in the bill. It sounds a bit boring when you list them, but to make it easy to understand the debate, I do. The first proposal is to change the scale of penalties for serious weapons offences and serious violations of the authorisation requirement for explosives. There will be an increase in the minimum sentence from one year's imprisonment to two years' imprisonment and an increase in the maximum sentence from four years' imprisonment to five years' imprisonment. The second proposal concerns an increase in the minimum penalty for the extremely serious crimes, from three years' imprisonment to four years' imprisonment. The third and final proposal is to change the maximum sentence from two years in prison to three years in respect of weapons offences and offences against the authorisation requirement for normal explosives. In addition, following an alliance motion, the committee has agreed to ask the government to return with a proposal to increase the maximum sentence for the most serious crimes and to propose that more crimes should be seen as serious. The reason for this is that the committee agrees that we otherwise run the risk of having too narrow a scale of penalties. In committee, we also agree that the proposals in the bill are good, because when the sentences amount to at least two years in prison, this is covered by new possibilities for the use of coercive measures. For example, prosecutors may propose detention during preliminary investigations. Why is this good? Well, it simply means that you can lock up a person who is suspected of having committed a serious crime during the time of the investigation. The Law Council has reviewed this and made some criticisms. Among other things, it is considered that the period of referral has been too short and that there is no sufficient impact assessment. However, the government has assessed that the proposal does not entail a new criminalisation and has also seen that all the referral bodies except two have submitted their referrals. We in the committee can see that the government has failed to deal with it, but we share the government's view that it is urgent that the penalties can be put in place quickly. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that good preparation is important and that we generally expect one. The committee has considered these proposals to be both appropriate and balanced. The important final objective is that the proposal should contribute to the fight against crime. Everyone has the right to feel safe, and when the conditions in society change, legislation may also have to do so. This is one such example. Madam President, I would like With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-9675611e6eb05064-850	Madam President, I would like We are in a split time. We are pleased to note that certain types of crime are decreasing and that the exposure to certain types of crime is falling. At the same time, however, we see very serious tendencies towards a new threat picture in our society. Mortal violence is on the increase. The use of firearms is increasing. The insecurity in some parts of our residential areas is increasing. It is becoming increasingly difficult for blue - light personnel to intervene, help and support people, as they are faced with resistance that is often inexplicable. Over a period of years, we have seen increased use of automatic weapons, even hand grenades, and attacks on police cars. They attack the representatives of the judiciary both at stations and indeed at their homes. That is something that we cannot actually accept and something that we must stop. Over a long period of years, we have been able to see that the increased use of arms must also lead to consequences for us as legislators. It has been too easy to get away in court with possession of very potent weapons. It has been far too easy to escape reasonable penalties for possession of, not least, military weapons as hand grenades. We must remedy this, and it is important that we do so now. Parts of the Justice Committee have relatively recently made a study visit to the United States in extremely crime-prone cities: Baltimore and Chicago. Although we do not in any way have the same problems as they do, we must realise that we need to do something about them now, so that they do not increase any further. Because it's the same driving forces behind the behavior there as it is here. It is the combination of the feeling of exclusion, young people, too much drugs and firearms that lead to human disasters. It's happening here just like it's happening there. It is the same driving force, and it is important that we put an end to this development as quickly as possible so that we do not end up in the same quantities as in the United States. Madam President, I would like This bill has been a dilemma. Certainly, the government has now submitted a bill following an announcement by the Riksdag, one of many orders, which pointed out the need for increased minimum penalties in the case of serious weapons offences. This is now coming back to the government after the Alliance has pushed forward the announcement. The same is true of the serious offences involving authorised explosives. The government returns now after the Parliament has requested this in accordance with an alliance motion. The dilemma for us is that the government has done little and done it late and sloppy. That is why very serious criticism came from the Law Council, to which we found it difficult to relate. We have tried to reason, because we see that we have to solve the problem. But this has been so careless that all parties share the criticism of the government, including the Social Democrats and the Green Party, that is, the government parties. What the committee says is that it agrees with the Legislative Council's assessment that the government has failed in the preparation of the matter, including through a too short consultation period and a lack of justification for this deviation from the processing requirement. The Law Council rejected the bill accordingly. On the other hand, we believe that we must assume our responsibilities. It is true that we must stress the importance of the requirement for preparation; this must be a one-off event. At the same time, however, in the light of the development of crime, we believe that we must put these penalties into effect as quickly as possible. That's why we chose a different path. We had two choices: to try to stop the bill or to try to improve it. The alliance parties chose the latter. We see it as a way of ensuring that this leads to proper action. We do not think we can legislate directly on the ground. If we share the Council's criticism, we must also follow the rules of the game. At the same time, however, we do not want this to remain a matter of reservations, but of real politics. That is why we are quite happy that, after all, we have managed to get a de facto fully united committee. Although there is a reservation, it is in line with the position of the majority. The new order, which now brings us up to a total of 90 announcements by the Committee on Justice during this period, means, as mentioned earlier, that the maximum penalty for the extremely serious crimes is reviewed after criticism of referrals so that we do not have too narrow a sanction catalogue for the courts to take into account, but also that it is very important to look at the qualification criteria for serious weapons offences and extremely serious weapons offences. In fact, this has been brought up to date in the course of the proceedings, as a recent ruling came from the Supreme Court. This decision would, in fact, almost require three announcements, because at the same time there are committee texts to review this part as well in the context of reviewing the qualification criteria for the serious crimes. I can say that I am quite satisfied – although there is something that we are doing a little bit about the curves – that we have managed to reach agreement, that we can together try to reverse developments, that the government parties have recognised their shortcomings and that we have therefore received a joint opinion. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that this has come about, but at the same time I think it could have been better. Sweden needs a new government.
i-9675611e6eb05064-859	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved in the committee's report, including the announcement. In fact, I am a little glad that we can agree on this issue. When I first heard about the penalty for hand grenades, above all, one and a half or two years ago, I must admit that I was a little shocked at what it looked like in Sweden. Criminals could be taken by the police on the street in Malmö, for example, and you could find a hand grenade in their luggage, but then they were released again. It was not a high enough penalty for their detention. It was basically legal to run around with hand grenades in town until you were convicted. It can't be like that. It is therefore very good that we in Parliament can now agree to increase the penalty so that these criminals can be detained. The description I received at the first draw on this issue was that this was the case in Denmark; there they were arrested immediately when they had hand grenades with them. I must also admit that the first time I was surprised to hear that people were running around with hand grenades in Sweden. Why were they hand grenades and not guns? Well, it was just because the punishments were so low. We have a problem not only in Sweden but throughout Europe after the Balkan wars in particular; there has been a great deal of illegal access to hand grenades on the black market. Then it is very important that we in Sweden get to grips with this. When I see how it has accelerated and how hand grenades seem to have become something of a favorite weapon for internal gang arrangements, I am shocked. It's not something new. Before 2014 there were up to eight hand grenade attacks in Sweden. After that, it has accelerated even more. It is then a very good thing that we can now decide on this proposal in this House and make sure that there really is a penalty change. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to ask the alliance representatives a question. Why did this change not already take place during the last parliamentary term? It would have been so much easier. That was exactly the same question at the time. In itself, there had not been so many attacks. It was only eight attacks with hand grenades. It would have been so much easier if the previous government had already tightened the penalties for the hand grenades. Then we could have hit earlier. The police could have arrested the youths and criminals running around with hand grenades. There would have been a clear threat to them. Perhaps it had not been established that they were throwing hand grenades at each other, as they have actually been doing, killing people. This also applies to the threat to the public. It would have been easier if we had in time created the rules that prevent at least part of the gang crime explosion in Malmö, for example. The example from Denmark already existed at that time. Better late than never, you might say. The S-MP government has worked hard. Over the years, since we took over the government, we have handled over 100 bills at the Ministry of Justice. I am glad that we are now also tightening up the penalties for hand grenades and coarser weapons. I am pleased that Parliament will be relatively united on this issue.
i-9675611e6eb05064-869	Madam President, I would like As I have just stated, Mats Pertoft's own party has also realised that the product did not turn out so well. That means voting on the Alliance's proposal. It's a confession in itself. In the debate, he has raised a question from the speaker's chair: why did the previous government not solve all the problems so that we had to work? It's the dilemma of every government. It's probably a pretty common type of rhetoric. Why didn't you fix everything for us before? No, the trials come as they come. As Mats Pertoft mentioned, a number of attacks began in 2014. But he knows very well how it works in the judicial system and how the legislation works. First of all, we need to set up a number of preliminary investigations which in some way lead a prosecutor to prosecute the case and take it to court. Then it will be threshed in order to create practice in the judiciary, hopefully before changing the law. When we then have a number of judgments, which we may have been given this week, which mean that the legislator thinks it was not quite right, we are beginning to review the legislation. That is exactly what has happened in this case. Why was no initiative taken? On 21 February 2013, the directives for the de facto Government investigation were adopted at the first stage. It is the investigation that dealt with increased penalties for organised crime. The work started and the investigation that then led to a bill started because of the alliance government. We felt from our side that it was not enough. Therefore, the Alliance continued to push the issue ahead, and so there were announcements in the Riksdag that have led to this bill. That's the answer to your question.
i-9675611e6eb05064-876	Madam President, I would like We are not talking about the bill on organised crime. It has already passed the Riksdag. We're talking about hand grenades. The first attacks took place around 2011. I still want to ask Krister Hammarbergh: Why was it so uninteresting during your time? It's not about us shunting work. We are constantly working to change and improve legislation. As I mentioned earlier, it is good that we agree that we should tighten up the legislation on this. I'm just wondering why it didn't happen much earlier. As far as organised crime is concerned, as I recall, we also agreed very much that it should be prosecuted more clearly. I've been in that work many times. Speaking of my background in Södertälje, this is, for my part, a priority issue. My question still concerns hand grenades. It has been a far too low penalty value for it in Sweden. We have been able to see in Denmark, for example, what effect it has had to have a higher penalty value. Now I am glad that we are jointly making the decision to change this. But why didn't it happen earlier?
i-9675611e6eb05064-880	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, with a parrot's stubbornness, I have to repeat what I said earlier. It is because of announcements and approval of his motions that the bill on explosives has come into being. Actually, that's the way it is. It is very important to understand that this type of shooting and the use of heavy weapons are linked to organised crime. If you don't understand it, it will be very difficult to solve the problem. I have the instructions for the investigation, but they're on my bench. I'll hand them over to Mats Pertoft so he can see what the order was. It also has to do with weapons.
i-9675611e6eb05064-883	Madam President, I would like To Krister Hammarbergh, I would like to say that I can still say that I am very pleased that we agree on this issue. It is good that we have come so far. I would be happy to look at the directives, so we can see whether we agreed in principle at the time.
i-9675611e6eb05064-884	Madam President, I would like I, too, feel a little compelled to get up in the debate and take a little change of line. We are told by the Green Party: why did the penalties for hand grenades not be tightened up during the last parliamentary term, for example, because it has revealed itself as such a major problem in the criminal environment? To begin with, I think it is fun that the Green Party has joined the idea that punishment has an effect on what kind of crime is taking place in our society. If the penalties for certain types of weapons crimes, for example, are raised, there will be a change in the fact that people stop spontaneously arming themselves in order to spontaneously carry out gunfire against criminal rivals or in other contexts. It has the effect of tightening the penalties. It is to be welcomed that the Green Party, which has been the main opponent of more stringent penalties throughout its term of office, now adheres to the wisdom that the rest of us have had for so long. There was talk of tightening the penalty in good time. We are in the final year of the term of office. Now comes a proposal from the government to tighten the penalty for serious weapons offences and, for example, explosives. There is criticism that the previous government did nothing during its term of office precisely in the case of explosives. They complain and say that things should have been done in good time. Why did they not listen to the Swedish Democrats already in year one when it came to serious weapons crimes and increased penalties? These problems are by no means new to this year. These problems have taken place in our society with all due clarity throughout the term of office. Why hasn't the government acted on time?
i-9675611e6eb05064-889	Madam President, I would like When it comes to the difference between the Environmental Party and the Swedish Democrats in terms of crime and punishment is probably the biggest difference that the Environmental Party listens to research and takes seriously what science and proven experience show. It is not the case, in our opinion, that penalties generally lead to fewer crimes. However, there are situations where it is clear that higher penalties reduce the number of offences. This applies, for example, to what we are discussing today – hand grenades, where a higher minimum penalty gives them the right to arrest. That is why I took this as an example; it is very clear. Then there are other crimes, such as weapons crimes, where there are statements that clearly indicate this. But in general, higher penalties do not lead to fewer crimes. Anyone who believes it also believes in fairy tales and other dreams, which probably the Swedish Democrats tend to do.
i-9675611e6eb05064-892	Madam President, I would like Maybe I didn't get a really great answer to the question of why you haven't done anything when the problems have been so obvious for a long time. The Green Party says that you look at research before making decisions on various issues. But the presumption of arrest has always been two years for serious gun crimes, and there has always been a problem with people in criminal settings arming themselves a little at random when they go out to the city. That's what it's been like. The effect of the bill that you are now presenting during the gallows has been well known throughout the term of office. The problems have been well known throughout the term of office. I think, Madam President, that Mats Pertoft is somewhat guilty of what he accuses the Alliance of when he says that the Alliance did not act in time. Now we're in senior year. What has taken the Green Party so long to understand that this is a necessary legislative proposal? My question remains.
i-9675611e6eb05064-895	Madam President, I would like I mentioned earlier, in the last round of the line, what has taken so long: the Ministry of Justice has produced over 100 proposals that this House has dealt with during this parliamentary term. This is one of them. It has been a solid piece of work, but precisely because it did not happen quite as much during the last parliamentary term, the Ministry has had to work very hard to produce the various pieces. We take these questions seriously – that is my question to Krister Hammarbergh in the debate we had just now, and that is my answer to the Swedish Democrats as well. I think it would be nice if Adam Marttinen listened a little more carefully when I clearly differentiated this. The Green Party can think of tougher penalties in areas where it turns out to be effective, but not in areas where it becomes a mere myth that harsher penalties would have no effect.
i-9675611e6eb05064-897	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to endorse the proposal made by the Committee on Justice in the report on the strengthening of penalties for serious weapons offences and the announcements made by the Alliance regarding the extremely serious weapons offences. I think it is extremely strong for the Environment Party representative, who is currently on leave of absence from the Government Office, to claim that the Ministry of Justice has decided on over 100 proposals, well aware that most have taken between two and three years to prepare. Thus, the majority of the initiatives taken in relation to proposals have been taken by the Alliance Government. Of course, Mats Pertoft knows that. It is a dishonest debate technique that I hear during this session when it comes to hand grenades. I think that the Green Party instead b should listen to the news on 14 August 2015 when the People's Party, as we were then called, in Sweden's Television proposed that possession of hand grenades should be classified as possession of weapons. That's what the government says no to. We suggested that hand grenades should provide increased punishment. It has taken the government two years to make such a change. It was only in June 2017 that the Swedish Parliament was able to decide to increase the penalty for possession of hand grenades. Do not come to the House and say that we have not raised the issue! Do not say that it was this government that took this initiative! Madam President, I would like We have major problems with access to illegal weapons but also with legal weapons that criminals find and acquire in various types of burglary. The demand for weapons is high, and it is easy to get hold of illegal weapons today. We also see from what has so far been noted by the police that we have had 230 shootings, including twelve shootings in Stockholm, seven in Malmö and three in Gothenburg, until mid-November. This is an extremely serious development, and that is why more measures are needed and not just an increase in the minimum penalty. We also want to broaden the paragraph so that more weapons offences can go under this legislation. But we must also take other measures, which are not directly the subject of this proposal. This applies, for example, to the ability of the police, some of whom have been involved. However, the Liberals believe that the most urgent measure is to provide the customs with sufficient resources to stop the introduction of illegal weapons. This year the government has chosen not to spend any money on the Swedish Customs Agency, but it will only come next year. It is therefore important to tighten up the legislation and to invest in the police but also to invest in the Customs Agency. What concerns the extremely serious arms crime deserves a comment of its own, as the proposal has been drafted on an alliance initiative. The background is the question raised by the Liberals three weeks ago in a written question to the government: the Supreme Court decided at the beginning of November that possession of five automatic carbines and a large number of powerful cartridges is not to be regarded as a particularly serious weapon offence. When the Supreme Court was to rule on its verdict, two out of five councils of justice differed. They thus disagreed on how this was to be interpreted: as a serious weapon offence or a particularly serious weapon offence. As for the government's written answer to my question, which I received today, which I don't think is a coincidence, the government believes it's the old government's fault that it looks like it does. They say that, of course, they are prepared to act if necessary in the future. However, the week before, on 16 November, we adopted a report in which, on p. 8 we can read a summary of what the government says: the government considers that, in view of the fact that at present there have not been sufficient grounds to increase the maximum penalty even for the extremely serious crimes. I think there are completely different nuances in these answers. What do the Social Democrats and the Green Party want? How do you really view the most serious crimes? Even with regard to the smuggling law, which is indirectly affected in the report, Mats Pertoft is standing in the speaker's chair and attacking us because we have not done enough. However, when the Committee on Justice had an issue that was just about a stronger view of arms crimes and that this should be reflected in the smuggling legislation, we made a statement to the government that the law should be tightened up. Which parties reserved themselves then? Yes, the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party. I think it is dishonest for you to use this debate technique in a case where we are in part in agreement. But it is the Liberals and the Alliance that have pushed several of the questions ahead, and I think that is a good thing.
