i-ba85b049978249cc-2	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate the pension system. It is an area that is one of the pillars of Swedish social security. Almost all people and parties are of the opinion that we should have good and generous pensions, so that the citizens receive adequate compensation that they can live on and that is sufficient for the most necessary expenses. Then the question is, do we? And what will it look like in the future? What will be absolutely crucial is how much employment Sweden will have in the future. Economic policy will have a decisive impact on the size of pensions we will have. For a policy in the country that causes thousands of jobs to disappear, for example, it also hits the pension system directly. It is therefore of great importance that our young people get to work as early as possible, both for themselves and for society. We're going to need every hour worked we can mobilize forward. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the school system works and that we can integrate our new Swedes into the labour market. It is important for Sweden, for the people themselves and for the sustainability of the pension system in terms of providing just good pensions. In addition, more people have to work a little longer if this equation is to go together. We can look at what it looks like outside Sweden. We don't have to look long until we find systems that aren't funded and that will crash if there isn't a lot of money from the state or anyone else. Many states, including here in Europe, will face major political balances and trials in the financial system. It will be called into question in the context of proposals for substantial reductions in pensions and increases in pension ages. These are issues that affect the whole of Europe. These issues have therefore been put on the agenda in recent years. What does it look like in Sweden? Yes, the straight truth is that we have a system that will last for many years. But here too we have challenges and pressures that will reduce pensions if we do nothing. We should be grateful to our representatives who took good responsibility for future generations by fundamentally changing the pension system. Of course, the old ATP system had its advantages for the individual as it more easily provided full pension for fewer years worked. But there were also severe system errors that would have caused it to go financially into the wall if it had not received annual contributions in the form of increasing fees. This would, of course, have resulted in a sharp decline in our GDP growth, leading to greater unemployment overall and indirectly to lower pensions. It was also unrelated to growth, life expectancy and hours worked. Therefore, one might say a little disrespectful that the old ATP system sent its bill to children and grandchildren. Madam President, I would like Pensioners are not a uniform group. There are people who have acquired a good financial situation over the years, not least with the help of various occupational pension solutions. In addition, more and more people are taking advantage of the opportunity to work a little even after they have started to retire. This is particularly beneficial for individuals when they are receiving increased job tax deductions. Those who receive housing allowance can earn up to 24 000 SEK without reducing the supplement. All these measures were put in place so that people could make their living without marginal effects. It benefits the job line and gives people the opportunity to fend for themselves. But there are also groups that are economically vulnerable, that have to turn every penny around and that may not be able to improve the situation. This applies not least to women who may have been at home for a number of years of working age and then worked part-time. It is important that pensions can be kept intact and that they do not fall due to brakes and other things. It is also important to point out that the new pension enumeration system has in fact provided much more, despite the brakes, than the price base increases of the old ATP system. Another very funny observation, which we sometimes forget, is that Sweden is actually one of the very best countries in the world for pensioners, who feel good and are satisfied with life. Madam President, I would like There is concern in the world. We have refugee flows of over 70 million people around our earth and various types of instability. We look with wonder and perhaps anxiety at what policy President Donald Trump is pursuing in the new United States and how this will be received by the world. All of this will affect Sweden with great power, because we are so export dependent. Our pension system is strongly tied to the economy and how many hours worked we can obtain in Sweden. Our new pension system, introduced in the early 2000s, is much more linked to work. You earn your pension points. You get your pension rights crown for crown up to a maximum level. In addition, there is no longer any lower or upper limit on how many years you can earn a better pension. However, one thing needs to be emphasised more than once, because many still do not understand how the pension system is constructed, namely that today's workers pay today's pensions through pension contributions and that future workers pay the pensions of the future. It's a so-called generation contract. We assume that our children and grandchildren will pay us pension contributions when we go into retirement. There are still too many people who believe that their pension contributions have been paid into some AP funds, where the money lies and waits for them until they retire. In order for us to have respect for future generations when it comes to paying pension contributions, it is extremely important that each generation pays separately and does not overwhelm the debts of future workers. It is important that it is perceived as a fair system. This concerns contributions to the pension system, future pension ages but also changes to the premium pension scheme. Although our pension system is designed to withstand various imbalances, it needs to be strengthened in order not to run the risk of balancing in normal economic downturns. That is why the various governments and the Pensions Group have set up a number of studies to strengthen, clarify and simplify the pension system. We have a number of factors to consider. There will be fewer people working in the future in relation to pensioners. The pension should last longer because we are getting older. That is why the Pensions Group has worked intensively, especially over the past year, to arrive at an agreement that is good for pensioners, for the pension system and for Sweden as a whole. Madam President, I would like It is important to point out that there is only one thing that can pay for pensions and give the system stability for the foreseeable future, namely work, work and re-employment. More people at work both earlier and later in life provide better pensions. The 40s generation has now largely retired. This already means that people are missing in many workplaces, not least in health care. Now there are about three workers on each pensioner. Already in 20 to 25 years' time, there will be close to two employees on each pensioner unless the conditions change before then. Madam President, I would like Perhaps the most important thing we can do to raise pension levels is to introduce the proposals and principles of the Pension Age Investigation. In other words, this means that most people have the opportunity to work for a few more years. It increases pensions considerably, except that people get a few more years of real pay. That every worker who has the energy and ability to work for a few more years will need Sweden. In order to clarify this otherwise, we can see what a difference there is now between young people who are entering the labour market. They are many times nearly 30 years old before they get their first full - time job. 40 years ago many started working as early as 16-year-olds. It makes a difference. Madam President, I would like We have a stable majority for our Swedish pension system. Today, six parties across the block are responsible for Sweden having a stable pension system that will withstand different pressures in terms of demography, increase in middle age and strong cyclical fluctuations. Then my question will come to the Left Party. Since the introduction of the new pension system, you have often criticised this rhetorically and said that a completely new system should be introduced. Despite these loud words, you have not added any new money to pensions in this budget. In other words, it is not a real promise to pensioners but just a lot of words without substance. If I understand correctly, you are complaining about the levels of the pension system and want back a preferential system that can provide between 65 and 70% of the final salary to everyone. It sounds good – if you don't look at the consequences this would have financially. This would mean that the pension system would have to be strengthened by several thousand billion if all people were to be included now and in the future. Do you know at all how much the total pension debt is to the Swedish people in total manner? The latest figure from 31 December 2016 is 8 714 billion in total. I understand very well that this is wishful thinking, but if you are a serious parliamentary party, you must look at the consequences before you make such a proposal. Where are you going to take this money? The first country I think about is Venezuela. They run that kind of politics. I also have a question for the Swedish Democrats. I note that this year, too, you have made a strong commitment to guarantee pensioners in your draft budget. It sounds good and is certainly something that everyone would like to achieve. But I still don't understand how you can put the equation together in practice, technically. Everyone involved in pension issues knows that the difference in pensions and housing allowances between those with only guaranteed pensions and those with low income pensions is very small. Do you know that the consequence of your proposal is that the net pension can be higher for a guaranteed pensioner than a low-paid income pensioner? It would be very interesting to hear how you think. Madam President, I would like The state part of the pension system has a turnover of 34 635,000 000 in 2018. Then the income pension system is added to the state budget, and it is estimated to have a full turnover of 308 661,000 000 in 2018. Thus, the entire pension system, including the public sector, has a total turnover of 343 296 000 000 in 2018. I would like to end my speech with this. The most important thing for us to maintain decent pensions in the future is that we say yes to a continued work line and stable public finances. I refer to our particular opinion.
i-ba85b049978249cc-26	Madam President, I would like We are today debating Category 11, Economic security in the case of old age. The draft budget of the Swedish Democrats is a coherent whole, and since the Parliament in step one, the Framework Decision, has supported the Government's proposal for a financial framework for the state budget and the focus on budgetary policy, we are not taking part in the current decision on the distribution of appropriations in Category 11. Instead, in our separate opinion, we present the distribution of funds and the proposals presented by the Swedish Democrats in motion 2017/ 18:3609. Expenditure area 11 finances the management of the Pension Agency as well as special allowances and support for pensioners. For the Swedish Democrats, it is crucial that our elderly are offered good economic conditions after a long, workable life in Sweden. At the same time, we can see that more and more Swedish pensioners, after having paid taxes throughout their lives, cannot in many cases afford basic things such as medicines and dental visits. A number of major reforms are therefore proposed to strengthen the financial situation of pensioners. As part of our broader investment for the elderly in Sweden, we also want to reduce taxes for all pensioners to strengthen the guarantee pension. Our ambition is a 10% increase. We choose to strengthen the economically weakest group of citizens in society. Regardless of whether we strengthen the guarantee pension, the guarantee pensioner will probably receive no more than the income pensioner. Since the income pensioner receives a stronger guarantee pension in essence until it reaches a certain level, that pension is still higher than the guarantee pension. Madam President, I would like The increase in old age support proposed by the Government will be paid, among other things, to people who have applied for asylum in Sweden in recent years. The Swedish Democrats believe that the Swedish welfare systems should give Swedish pensioners good economic conditions in the first place and propose a reduction in this appropriation in relation to the Government's proposal.
i-ba85b049978249cc-33	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the post! I do not question in any way that the Swedish Democrats have put more money in the budget. That's not what I did, but what I want to know is how you think when you just spend the money on the guarantee pensions. How do you get that equation together against income pensioners with a low income pension, such as nurses? What's the plan? There is a difference in theory, but if you add the housing supplement and other supplements that guarantee pensioners with no other income or wealth have, it will be about the same. What's the plan? Is it a conscious policy that a guarantee pensioner should have more than one assistant nurse who has worked his whole life?
i-ba85b049978249cc-35	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Mr Lars-Arne. Unfortunately, as the honourable Member knows, this is not my responsibility. I have had to get into this debate at short notice. I therefore apologise for not being able to give the answers the honourable Member is looking for today, but I hope that we can have a dialogue when I am a little more familiar with this.
i-ba85b049978249cc-37	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the very honest answer. I will be equally accommodating and say that I will be happy to take this dialogue, because I think you need to know more about the parts of the pension system and how the state guarantee scheme, which includes the guarantee pension, works. The different systems must be synchronised with each other. I am happy to take this debate, because I very much want the guarantee pensioners and pensioners in the income pension system to be better off with my heart. I live for it when it comes to this!
i-ba85b049978249cc-39	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you very much for Mr Lars-Arne's commitment, because I see for myself when he speaks here that he is passionate about these issues.
i-ba85b049978249cc-40	Madam President, I would like This is an urgent matter, because financial security is extremely important when you can no longer work or when you reach that age when you do not work as much. The issue is extremely hot, which is perhaps an understatement. There is an enormous amount of debate in the media about pensions and about the so-called pension agreement, which is to be improved. We heard from Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng how the pension system works, and therefore I have no reason to go into it, rather the opposite. Finally, the pensioners' good and bad are coming up on the agenda. It is high time these political issues were put high on the agenda. They affect more than 2 million people. It is not just about pensioners, but there are a few million more. It is the relatives of pensioners who are also concerned about their finances, care, housing and security. When it comes to economics, I am the representative of the Centre Party in the Pensions Group. For me, it has always been important to look at gender equality and how it will be for all those with the lowest pensions. When we say the lowest pensions, it is the guarantee pension. Women in particular have a guarantee pension. This is because they have been at home caring for children, family and households. That's why they get a very low pension. It's not fair. Now I expect us to do something about this. The most important thing in my view right now is that you should be able to live on your pension. In this context, Madam President, it is also extremely important that you always earn the most from working. It is income from work that makes it possible to receive a higher pension. That's something we in the Center Party really work for. In this context, we propose first of all that the tax be reduced for pensioners and their income increased by SEK 100 per month. It's in our budget. In addition, the tax will be reduced further for those who earn between 10 000 and 30 000. We also want to increase the guarantee pension by SEK 200 per month in the budget. In other words, this is an effort on those with the absolute lowest pensions. It is important to us in the Center Party, and we are showing this in our budget this year. We in the Center Party mean by force that it will pay off to work. For this reason, we want an extra effort on job tax deductions for those who are 64 years old and continue to work. It should therefore pay even more to work and encourage older people to want to work. In this context, we want to contribute to a lower employer's contribution so that entrepreneurs want to keep the older ones. They have knowledge that is needed in the workplace. We all know that care for the elderly costs. In this context, it is important to note that it is not only about income but also about expenditure on living a decent life. In this context, there are major differences between municipalities in what they charge for what a pensioner, an elderly person, needs. It is clear from the investigations carried out by RUT, the Parliamentary Investigation Service, that municipalities have different health and social care contributions systems – things that an elderly person really needs. Expenditure on the individual pensioner depends on the municipality in which he or she lives, and it affects how well the pensioner can live on his or her pension. Yet there is high cost protection, maximum tax, minimum subsistence and rules for there to be a certain amount left. This needs to be reviewed. The charging systems are designed in different ways. Let's look at how it works for alarms. In a municipality you pay per call. In another municipality, you pay one fee per month. In another municipality, you pay a deposit. You can then understand that if you pay per call, and you need call out several times a week, it can be an enormous amount. Then the pension is not enough. Therefore, it is important that we soon present the agreement that the Pensions Group is working on for high pressure. It is my great hope that the agreement will help those with the lowest pensions, women, to have a more decent economic life in the autumn of their age. But you always have to make a living working. This enables more people to receive a higher pension. It is with work that money comes into the pension system. It should never be ignored because it is absolutely the most important thing for pensioners and, Madam President, for future pensioners. I would therefore like to draw attention to our specific opinion.
i-ba85b049978249cc-52	Madam President, I would like It can distinguish as much as SEK 5 700 between women's and men's pensions. In Sweden, every sixth woman, aged 65 or over, is dependent on a guarantee pension, compared to about one in ten men. Nearly a quarter of a million pensioners in Sweden live below the EU poverty threshold of SEK 10 800, according to the Swedish Pension Agency. Most of them are women, and most of them have only a very low guarantee pension. The nurses, waitresses, cold ladles and cashiers involved have hard jobs and often can't work until retirement. In addition, during their working lives, many people have been employed on an hourly or fixed-term basis and have taken most of the parental leave. We also know that a large proportion of these women remain in relationships not always out of love but because they would not survive economically on their own. One group that is particularly affected is immigrants who have lived and worked part of their lives in Sweden. In Sweden, as you know, the public pension system is based on working together in retirement during working life. As basic protection, there is the guarantee pension, which today is a maximum of SEK 8 000 per month. However, in order to obtain this total, you must have lived in Sweden for 40 years, with certain exceptions for refugees or persons in need of protection. However, no exceptions apply to migrant relatives. In addition, many immigrants have a weak position in the labour market. These factors all contribute to the fact that many immigrants are in an economically vulnerable position with regard to their pension. Madam President, I would like For the Left Party, the link between low wages and low pensions is very clear. If we do not want poor pensioners to become even poorer in the future, we must increase wages, and permanent and full-time jobs must be the norm in the labour market. The fact that the majority of poor pensioners are women is also due to the unequal take-out of parental days, which cements a traditional distribution of responsibilities for homes, children and income. In order to check the tough patterns that steer women towards taking most of the unpaid work at home, we also need to get fair, individualised parental insurance. As you know, the Left Party is not part of the P ension group because we did not support the pension settlement that gave us the current pension system. We did not stand up for a pension system that disadvantages everyone who cannot work long and much because it is the salary throughout the working life that determines how high the income pension is. In addition, the pension scheme is based on unrealistic expectations of the stock market. The general pension should not oblige individuals to speculate on their pension contributions. A first step is to set up a parliamentary inquiry into pensions and give back power over the pension issue to Parliament. The current system is undemocratic because the transparency of the group's work is, to say the least, inadequate and is determined by the P ension group itself. To influence the group that deals with all our pensions from within is therefore completely impossible. A new pension system, a working life that does not wear people out prematurely, higher minimum wages and away with unwanted part-time work is a better recipe than the citizens' call for lower wages. The recurrent reductions in pensions are a sign that the pension system is incorrectly designed and needs to be redesigned. The Left Party is ready to take responsibility and participate in the work of creating a better system in which pensioners can live on their pension. However, the Pension Group does not seem to want to address these issues. Instead, according to media information, the P ension group now wants to raise the retirement age to 67 years. The early retirement age is proposed to increase from 61 to 63 years. Then we know that the average age of the LO collective to retire is 63.5 years for women and 63.8 years for men, i.e. not even working to the current retirement age of 65 years. Before we start talking about increased retirement age, we need to talk about how people should keep a whole working life. How do we do to have a labour market that people can be on without destroying body or soul? We have far too many people burning themselves out. People in the care are running in double shifts. The highly educated with well-paid jobs may be able to obb longer than today. Of course, they should be allowed to do so if the strength and the will are there. But raising the retirement age for everyone when people can't even work to 65 is the wrong way to go. We believe that the main problem is not the retirement age in itself, but that people cannot live on their pension with the system we have today. Class and gender are important also in the pension system. Many women and workers have had physically heavy and stressful jobs. It's killing the body. Wages have been low, and many have not even been able to cope until pension day. How long we live and receive a pension is a clear class issue. The difference in life expectancy between a highly educated Danderydsbo and a low-skilled Vårbygårdsbo is 18 years old. Danderydsbon receives a pension of 18 years longer than Vårbygårdsbon. This means that those who are most expensive in the current system are highly educated from Danderyd, as their pension is also higher. People from the LO collective are getting less out of the system even though they have often worked more years than officials, when they start working earlier. However, it is the last few years of working life that give the most to retirement, which further increases pension differentials. Rather, the current system should discuss the impact of life expectancy on the retirement age so that those who live longer also work longer. The labour market also needs to change. It is mainly women who would benefit from a statutory right to full-time and shared parental insurance. The work of women and men must begin to be valued equally, and the unfair pay gap must be removed. The social security system must work so that those who are ill receive sickness benefit that is pensionable. The rules for receiving sickness benefit must be made easier so that those unable to work in the last few years do not have to retire early. As I said, the left side is not part of the P ension group, but in the budget negotiations with the government we have achieved some improvements in the life situation and the economy of the elderly, not least those with the lowest incomes. For example, we have reduced taxes on pensioners twice, mostly for those with the lowest pensions. We want everyone, regardless of income type, to pay the same amount of tax. We have increased the housing allowance for pensioners. We've fixed 2 billion to more employees in the care of the elderly.
i-ba85b049978249cc-73	We have tried to get the government to increase the guarantee pension but unfortunately not – yet. We also need to do something about the fact that those who come to Sweden as adults and have worked hard but have not been able to live in Sweden for 40 years when they retire thereby lose out on the guarantee pension and therefore have to rely on children or someone else to support them. That's completely unreasonable. With that, I suggest that you submit to reservation 3.
i-ba85b049978249cc-75	Madam President, I would like There is much to be said about this. I can understand that there are dreams of being able to raise pensions to completely different levels, that you should not have to care if you have worked or not worked and that anyone who comes as older workers from another country should receive as much. Those dreams exist. But I don't think the Left Party understands how our pension system is structured. It is based on the fact that a large majority of parliamentary parties think that they should work together their own pension so that our children and grandchildren should not have to pay. The system that the Left Party wants is what it has had in many countries that are now crashing into the wall. We can take Greece as a clear example. If Rossana Dinamarca knows some pensioners down in Greece, she is happy to ask how their pensions have developed. They have been halved recently, halved because the pension system has been at an economic disadvantage. Is there anything that shines through the whole Left Party package is financial irresponsibility. Rossana Dinamarca and Left have not been part of the P ension group, but she is a member of the Social Security Committee. She has not put forward a single proposal for improvements to all these groups for which she says she wants to improve. No, the Left has not made a proposal. I would also be surprised if the Government had nothing to do with the proposals on dental care and other improvements to the social protection net, but it is only the Left that has tabled all these proposals. I suspect this is a compromise.
i-ba85b049978249cc-81	Madam President, I would like It sounds at Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng as if we have had this pension system in Sweden forever. It's not like that. We had a completely different pension system in the past, and it was not that long ago. It is also interesting that Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng is the one who goes on about the pensions. I don't know what he's trying to give the impression, to be honest. It just clearly shows the priorities of the Moderates. It is felt that it is more important to reduce taxes by several hundreds of billions of dollars. We have a quarter of a million poor pensioners. Is that reasonable? That is what we should be asking ourselves. Is it reasonable that people who have worked their whole lives, worked hard, in some cases may be homeless? That is what we need to address. Nor can we have a pension system where we have to rely on the stock market to do well. We must have a predictable pension system – where we know and can be sure that we will be able to survive once we are retired. It's the pension system that's wrong. Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng says we have no proposals in this area. I think he needs to read about the documents. We have made proposals, and I have said here that we think that we should have a parliamentary inquiry into pension issues. It should be open and transparent, so that we can follow it. For today is the end; we have no influence whatsoever. It is the Riksdag that should be in charge of these issues – not a pension group.
i-ba85b049978249cc-85	Madam President, I would like The simple answer is: should we continue to pursue the policy of the Left Party – I do not know if there is still a six-hour working day and some other measures – this would in practice mean that pensions went down in the basement. They were to be halved. We would have twice as many really poor pensioners. This is what we can see in country after country with the very policy that Rossana Dinamarca represents. I have no doubt for a second that Rossana Dinamarca has a big heart and wants to give more pensioners an increase, but we must have a system that works. Otherwise, it will be like in Greece and Venezuela, which is in free fall. It will be like in many other countries where it crashes into the wall. We must have a system that is sustainable, and that is what we have in Sweden. The total debt to the Swedish people in terms of pensions is SEK 8 714 billion. Please write it down! Would Rossana Dinamarca suddenly just annihilate that debt? Would she say to all pensioners in Sweden that we should have a new system and that we should introduce a parliamentary group in which all the parties in Parliament should be involved? After all, anyone who is involved in pension systems or finances realises that this is bottomless. We have to take responsibility. We must look our pensioners in the eye and say that we should do the very best we can from the point of view of the situation in Sweden. It should also be said that Sweden is one of the countries that has actually handled these issues best.
i-ba85b049978249cc-89	Madam President, I would like During the time the Moderates were in government, the tax on pensioners was increased. With the Moderates, pensioners became poorer. That is the policy of the Moderates. Again: We have a quarter of a million poor pensioners in Sweden. They live below the EU poverty threshold, which is SEK 10 800. You live below that limit. I think Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng should think about whether he himself would manage to live on it. What is unreasonable in this, once again, is that we are referring to how the stock market is progressing in terms of what pension we will have in due course. Solveig Zander also pointed out that we have a large group of women – it is above all that group that are poor pensioners – who are in relationships not always out of love, Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng, but because they are not able to manage financially on their own. In these times of metoo, perhaps we should consider whether this is not a problem we actually have to take seriously.
i-ba85b049978249cc-91	Madam President, I would like I have a few questions for Rossana Dinamarca. I think it is interesting when we talk about the pension system, that it does not work well and that what was before was better. I wonder if Rossana Dinamarca knows where the money for the previous system came from and where the money for the current system came from. After all, the pension is part of the security system. Health insurance, parental insurance and pensions are part of the security, which means that it is a loss of income that you should receive compensation for when you cannot work. Then the question is: Can you influence the level of your pension yourself? Should there be any possibility for us as individuals to influence our pension during working life? I also have to correct Rossana Dinamarca. It is not that the Center Party wants to lower the salary of anyone. We want in every way to help everyone get into the labour market, and those who are farthest from it must have the opportunity to earn more by getting into work than by being unemployed. We make possible lower entry wages and that employers have a lower amount to pay while they act as labour market introductions and teachers receive people higher wages within four years. We know that. However, my questions were about pensions. Where does the money come from, and can we influence it?
i-ba85b049978249cc-95	Madam President, I would like Was the previous system the best? No, of course there were shortcomings in that too. That is why we want to look forward. We want this to be on Parliament's table and we want to look at what a new pension system should look like. I think that there are some good parts which benefited women better in the old system, for example, that it was not the whole life's income that was counted. We know that, for a large part of our working lives, women take the main responsibility for home and children. They are lost a lot through parental leave, and women in particular are the ones who falter. Women are also particularly sick. This system does not benefit women; it is exactly the opposite. Should you be able to influence your pension by paying from your own resources? It will be extremely unfair, because those who have high wages can of course put a larger part of it in order to get a better pension. I think we should have a fair pension system in which people who have actually worked their whole lives should not have to stand on the back when they become pensioners. This is what it looks like today; in many working-class professions where people have started working early in their lives you eventually get a very bad pension. Solveig Zander highlights this with lower entry wages for those furthest from the labour market. This affects one's whole life, and it affects the whole labour market. When we reduce wages, wages are reduced for all groups, not just for that group. Moreover, that group will not receive a good pension once that time comes. That is why we must ensure that we have general rules on the labour market.
i-ba85b049978249cc-99	Madam President, I would like The last thing Rossana Dinamarca mentioned, that everyone gets lower wages if the entry price is low, is wrong. That's not true. If you don't work, you get the lowest income. The most important thing for all of us is to enter the labour market, and that is why all the incentives should go to it. With regard to the pension system, which is also affected by whether you are working, I wonder whether Rossana Dinamarca and the Left Party think that everyone should have exactly the same pension. Shouldn't we be able to influence our future pension? That's what I and the Center Party think. We think it is important that we participate in the premium pension scheme in order to enable a higher pension, because it does not rain manna from the sky. It didn't in the previous system, and it doesn't now. To the previous system was our tax money, which we are all to share. What is good now is that the current pension system is outside the public purse. It is robust over time, regardless of government revenue and expenditure. Then I have a question. How do you think money is growing in the world of the Left Party? Is that not because of what is happening on the stock market and on the economic market? You don't get any more money by magic with your knees. Therefore, it is actually important that we have many people working, which also affects the growth of our companies. That is what gives us money for pensions and other tax-funded activities. Of course, the whole life's income should be rewarded. That's obvious, isn't it?
i-ba85b049978249cc-104	Madam President, I would like So, according to the logic of the Center Party, you have to blame yourself if you get a bad pension because it has been a bad time on the stock market. I do not think we should have such a system. We shall have a predictable system, in which you actually know what it will be like when you have worked for a certain number of years. I want a fair pension system. As things stand today, pensions are based on our salaries, and there are large wage differentials in the labour market. I'm not saying everyone should earn just as much. But we need to reduce the pay gap. For example, it is quite unreasonable that there should be a pay gap between men and women, even though they are doing an equivalent job or having an equivalent education. There are unjustified pay differentials. That's what needs to go. I do not believe that there will be exactly equal pay for all types of work. But it should be fair wages, just as it should be fair and predictable pensions. As little as we can rely on how the stock exchange is going, we should not need a pension that depends on how thick our wallet has been and how much we have been able to spare in the meantime. Because people's lives are so different. There are people who do not actually have the opportunity to put away even a few hundred cents a month, because everything is going to make sure that the children are well and that they get winter clothes and so on. Not everyone has the opportunity to save for their pension. That's why we need a fair pension system.
i-ba85b049978249cc-107	Madam President, I would like The framework budget process is such that the Liberals' budgetary options have already fallen. That is why we are abstaining from voting on it in the forthcoming vote on Category 11. It is clear that the debate must recapitulate what has happened to the pension system since it was created. In the old peasant society they worked until they could not get out of bed anymore. Then came the industrial community. There were no jobs that you could have until you couldn't stand them getting out of bed. We received the first pension system in 1913. At that time, the retirement age was 67 years, even though life expectancy was 55 - 56 years. The choice of 67 years was due to the view that Sweden could afford to pay a pension to 2% of the population. Then it was not expected that we would add a quarter of a century to our life expectancy. If we had stuck to this 2%, we'd have to work until we're over 90 now. That is not the case. In 1960 we received the ATP system, which was extremely beneficial. Almost half of the parliament was critical of the fact that it was going to last. But more than half the parliament, with a popular partyist, had it tip over in the vote, so that we got the ATP system. At the time, the retirement age was 67 years, but it was reduced in the 1970s to 65 years. Then it started to wake up for two reasons. The National Board of Health saw the unhealthiness of people who were 65-plus and forced to stop working, even though they wanted to continue. The National Board of Health and Welfare then suggested that you be allowed to work if you wanted to and could reach 75 years or at least 70 years. So it was a health reason. But then they woke up in the 1980s and realized that this was going to hell and that this system could not afford it. It was found that up to over 40% of the income would have to be paid into the pension system in order for what it had promised to agree with the ATP system. The pension group was set up in 1991, and in 1999 we received today's system, which is financially stable. Everyone should be happy about that. When the orange envelope comes, it will show you how much you get in general retirement. It is more difficult to obtain data on what you get in occupational pensions and so on. The current system is thus financially stable for the state. As others have mentioned, the pension system in other countries is completely failing, for example in Greece. That is why we should be glad that we have this system. But for the individual, it is not completely stable. There'll be fluctuations because of the brake. This means that as many people as possible must be at work. Then we must not prevent those who want and can continue to work after the 67th anniversary. The new system raised the upper retirement age from 65 years to 67 years. We Liberals are trying to hammer this in. We want you to have the right to be in work until the age of 71. Many people confuse this and think that you should have to work until you are 71 years old or 69 years old or what age will be proposed by the P ension group. But you should have the right to remain in work up to this age, but you can quit earlier. At present, you can quit at 61 years of age. It is proposed, as I can see from the newspapers today, that there should be an increase from 61 years to 63 years. Then, of course, there are people who do not have the energy to work that long. This is especially true of women. In the election campaign, we pushed the question that women have 70% of men's pensions. This is because they have worked in low-wage jobs and worked part-time. This is difficult to address in a short perspective. We have pointed out that a couple should be able to share part of the pension in the event of a divorce as part of the marriage right. We are aware that this is tricky, but it is something that could be done in the short term. The housing allowance is also something that can be addressed in the short term. Other things take time. You have to be aware of that. In Almedalen we had an Ebatt-SM about pensions. There I repeatedly pointed out how important it is that young people – they may feel that they are so far away from 60 years of age that they don't have to think about it – should already learn how important it is in high school how important it is what career choice they make, that they start their studies on time and that they don't lose important retirement years. It is also important to emphasise that when they look for a job, they find out what the average salary for this job is, so that they do not lie down too low, and that they ask for an occupational pension. Too many, not least women, have failed to raise this issue. Then, of course, it is about how to share parental leave. So on to the question of being able to work. It is partly about taking care of your own health, partly about occupational health care, which comes in as a very important part in creating a work environment that makes nurses and others in heavy jobs able to work high up in the ages. I am convinced that many people would like to remain in work, which is a good thing because they need and feel that they are part of society, but the body has taken a beating. I would like to see a renaissance of occupational health care and an important part of the working environment. I would also like to mention the ageism I see shining through in the debate on retirement ages and the attitude of the business community towards year-long labour. I intend to come back to this in the discussion with the Minister for Social Affairs, to keep my eight minutes. But I still want to read a quote from our N obel laureate Arvid Carlsson in the book Årsrika, which Elisabeth Ohlson Wallin and Annica Carlsson Bergdahl have published: It is wrong that the elderly are not asked about things, because even if the body has been beaten, the brain will continue to function if dementia has not occurred. In the study Longer lives, longer working lives clearly show that this has support in the research. Now I pulled over by 36 seconds.
i-ba85b049978249cc-120	Madam President, I would like A welfare society can be assessed to a large extent on the basis of criteria such as respect, exploitation and care for the older generation. We must be able to guarantee every human being that we can age with dignity. But many older ones are anxious about the last years of life. The Christian Democrats see a number of urgent reforms that strengthen the economic position of older people in both the short and long term. However, it should be clearly stated that an important basis for this is the pension reform that came into force at the beginning of the 21st century. It guarantees the financial stability of the pension system and pensions themselves, and it is something that the Christian Democrats are defending. Madam President, I would like The population of Sweden, on average, is happily living longer. But it also involves difficulties linked to the growth of the so-called supply ratio. The proportion of the working-age population is falling in relation to the other age groups, with the result that the dependency ratio of those working is increasing. This demographic challenge represents a major effort for the entire national economy – both for the financing of our common well-being as well as for the development of pensions and the well-being of the elderly. Meeting the demographic challenge requires, first of all, a general economic policy that promotes innovation, risk-taking, work and a well-functioning labour market matching – in short, a policy of stronger competitiveness and higher economic growth. But there is also a need for driving forces for a longer working life. As life expectancy increases, we see it on the part of the KD as natural that the retirement age should also be adjusted upwards. This is why, within the framework of the pension agreement, we are working to increase the regulatory drivers for longer working lives. But, Madam President, the Christian Democrats also want to strengthen the economic incentives and opportunities for older people to stay longer in the labour market. Today, those aged 65 or over who are still working receive a double job tax deduction which allows you to retain a larger share of your salary after tax, compared with a person who has not reached this age. In our budget option, we reduce that age limit to 64 years. The idea behind this is that more people will have time to discover the economic viability of staying a little longer in working life before deciding on their own retirement. We are also abolishing the special wage tax for the elderly, which was introduced by the government soon two years ago, thus making it cheaper for employers to employ people over 65 in particular. However, the fact that older people are working further up the age bracket cannot be the only answer to the demographic challenge. It is likely that there are at least as good opportunities to extend working life by lowering the average age of young people entering the labour market. According to SCB, the age of establishment in the 2000s has been between 26 and 29 for men and 29 and 32 for women. Every year that we can reduce this age of establishment is important both for society and for the pension system, but also for the individual's future pension. In addition to the fact that a previous establishment in the labour market entails a higher life income, it is a fact that the pension krona paid in early years will have more years to grow with the interest-on-interest effect than the pension krona paid in late. In order to stimulate a previous establishment in the labour market, we propose a double job tax deduction for young people and a degree bonus for those who graduate before they turn 25. All in all, we set aside in the budget for next year SEK 6.6 billion precisely to strengthen incentives for a longer working life. We see, Madam President, that it takes is an investment that is profitable in both the short and long term. Finally, I would like to remind you that the Christian Democrats have long been the driving force for reducing taxes on pensioners. When we last sat in the government, we negotiated a total of five reductions in the tax on pensions and, in addition, three increases in the housing allowance for pensioners. This resulted in historical improvements in the financial situation of pensioners. Now, with our shadow budget, we are moving forward with further strengthening of the current pensioners' economy. As of next year, we will completely remove the difference in taxation between salary and pension. We also raise the housing allowance for pensioners. This is an increase of SEK 500 per month for all single people who have a housing supplement and SEK 30 0 per month for those who live together. In addition, we also raise the ceiling in the housing supplement significantly, from today's SEK 5 000 to SEK 7 500. All in all, the Christian Democrats for next year spend more than SEK 15 billion on strengthening the current pensioners' finances. Improving the situation of the elderly, Madam President, has long been, and still is, a high priority area for the Christian Democrats. And it is also very well visible for those who take the time to read our budget exercise. I would therefore like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 5 and to refer to our specific opinion in the report.
i-ba85b049978249cc-135	Madam President, I would like All those who have been involved and built up our country should have a safe and good pension. The assistant nurse in Tyresö, c the civil economist in Rosengård or the official in Boden – in short, ordinary people should know that there is money for them in the autumn. Today's debate on the government budget, which we now have, is precisely about financial security in old age. This is an area that concerns us all: everyone who is a pensioner today and all of us who will one day become a pensioner. Sometimes a few people may think that pensions are a defined area that only a few pension politicians have to manage. Nothing could be more wrong. Pensions concern us all and are influenced by all policy areas. It is as much about our education system as it is about the conditions of the labour market. It's about conscious and unconscious choices that we make through life. It is about women's part-time work, ill health and inequality, to mention a few things. A crucial issue for pensions is jobs. The only way to secure pensions for the future is to create more jobs, to combat women's part-time work – the involuntary – and to fight unemployment! This is why the government's clear goal that Sweden should have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU is so incredibly important. Madam President, I would like More and more people are getting older. Right now, life expectancy in our country is increasing by three and a half hours per day. During the hour that this debate has now been going on, electricity life expectancy has increased by almost ten minutes. Of course, this is not a problem, even if it sometimes sounds like that to politicians who are in retirement. Instead, it is a great success for our welfare society. But, of course, we need a pension system that can cope with ageing. The more money comes into the system, the more it comes out in the form of pensions. That is, once again, why it is so incredibly important to combat unemployment. This is why the person who protects pensions also takes responsibility for a functioning education system that meets the skills shortage in Sweden. That is why a person who takes pensions seriously also reviews social security systems, which build bridges back to health and work. This is also the protection of pensions. On the other hand, Madam President, reduced tax is not the solution to any of Sweden's challenges, although one sees that there seems to be a strong belief in this when one takes part in the right-wing and Swedish democrats' budget options in this House. History has shown that it is a blind track – a path that leads away from what has built Sweden strong. It is the case that resources for education, investments in increased welfare and investments in the common has built Sweden strongly. This is the basis for the Swedish model. Social-democratic policies have led to a record level of employment in our country, thus laying the foundations for substantial pensions. Madam President, I would like For the pension system to provide adequate pensions, it needs to be stable, both financially and politically. We Social Democrats are therefore defending the pension agreement that has been in place since 1994 and which has served both pensioners and the system well. But it is also important that we use the space available for politics outside the deal. That is why the Socialist-led government has clearly given priority to investing in the economy of pensioners. Next year, Sweden's pensioners will on average have received SEK 14 000 more in their wallets per year, compared to when the bourgeois government was in power in 2014. This is a concrete result of Social Democratic policy, with efforts at ordinary people and a society that is sticking together. Since we took over government power, the deficits of the Moderates have been turned into a surplus in the state's finances. Over 200,000 more people today have a job to go to. In short, we have changed the course for Sweden – instead of implementing unfunded tax cuts and cuts, we are now investing in welfare to develop the Swedish model. Madam President, I would like For us, it goes without saying that today's pensioners deserve a pension that is viable. When you leave working life, you should not be taxed in criminal terms. But one consequence of the previous government's tax experiment, which the bourgeois parties are talking about very quietly today, is that pensions are taxed more heavily than wages. It is deeply unfair and fundamentally wrong. We Social Democrats have always made it clear that the pensioner's tax is to be abolished. Next year, therefore, 11⁄2 million pensioners will receive reduced tax. Our clear promise is that the tax gap will be completely eliminated by 2020. Anyone who has worked a whole life should not be punished with higher taxes – end of story. Madam President, I would like Over the past few decades, gaps have increased in Sweden. A group that has fallen behind are the people who have the lowest pensions. That is why next year we will raise the ceiling for the housing supplement, which affects almost 300 000 pensioners. This is the first time in ten years that the housing supplement ceiling has been raised. It will make a big difference to those with the smallest margins. The dismantling of the pensioner's tax and the raising of the housing supplement ceiling are incredibly important things for the individual pensioner but also for society as a whole. Pension is deferred salary and should be taxed the same as salary. No one should have to feel a lump in their stomach when it's time to pay the rent. Madam President, I would like We have changed the direction for Sweden. We have cleaned up the Swedish economy and also made long-awaited investments in the elderly. This is now reflected in pensioners' wallets everywhere in our elongated country. That's good. It's good for the safety of pensioners. It's good for a community that stays together. Above all, people, it is good for pensioners, and they deserve it. It's good for your mom, and it's good for my dad, Grandma, and Grandma. But we Social Democrats are not satisfied. We will continue our work to improve for pensioners as the toughest. We Social Democrats are determined to continue working to increase the security and pensions of both current and future pensioners. A very good start is to approve the proposal in the report as regards Category 11.
i-ba85b049978249cc-156	Madam President, I would like It is, of course, the case that we should have a pension system that is safe, predictable and long-term. For some years now, the parliamentary Pensions Group has been carrying out a review of both the income and premium pension scheme. A number of areas have been identified where the group sees a need to make adjustments and come up with reforms. Discussions on this are still ongoing. For example, in 2015, the group launched a comprehensive analysis of pensions from a gender perspective. In the light of that analysis, there is now an action plan for equal pensions, which I think is very good. Many other issues have been discussed in the Pensions Group. This applies, for example, to retirement age, the right to work longer, a flexible working life, housing supplement and others. I would like to stress two points. They have been the subject of discussion in the Pensions Group but also in the public debate in society. One is the situation of the most economically vulnerable pensioners. The analyses show that absolute poverty among women and men over the age of 65 is very low. However, the risk of relative poverty, i.e. a low economic standard, is higher and has also increased in recent years. Although those with the lowest pensions have had the best percentage of economic development, many pensioners – mostly women – still have a lot of weaknesses. A working group within the Government Office is now reviewing basic protection, which will be completed in February 2018. On this basis, we hope that we can move forward as a matter of urgency on how to improve the financial situation of these economically vulnerable pensioners. I would also like to point out here the importance of securing the basic protection of the pension system over time. The second issue, which is a little outside the expenditure area but which still has an impact on the overall situation of current and future pensioners, is the premium pension scheme with its fund fund fund. This is also an issue discussed in the Pensions Group. I understand that we are in agreement on the problem of the pension fund square. We have all seen and heard in the media about the most flagrant cases of actors engaged in purely criminal activities in the fund square and who are directly deceiving pensioners. We also have players who charge far too high a fee and deliver unreasonably poor returns, if any. We can't have that. Here it needs cleaning up and it really needs to be done. Now there is an action programme which I am assuming will be implemented as quickly as possible. The Green Party believes that structural changes in the PPM system need to be made in the longer term in order to make it more transparent and understandable, all in order to achieve more trust in the system and more secure pensions. Otherwise, I would like to point out the Government's proposal to increase the ceiling of the housing allowance, which will cover the actual housing costs of the most deprived pensioners. It is positive that the level of reasonable housing costs and the level of decent living are raised in both housing allowances and old age support. The pension system as a whole needs to have long-term stable funding that lasts over time, not least if we are now to raise pension levels for those with the lowest pension. Therefore, the Green Party believes that it is important to investigate the level of pension contributions. It is of course worrying that, according to the studies carried out, only 35% of pensioners are aware that the number of years worked affects the size of their pension and that only 24% state that the size of their work, whether full or part-time, affects their pension. This, together with the ignorance of the housing allowance as a benefit, means that the Pension Authority still has an important role to play in informing and disseminating information about the different parts of the pension system. Therefore, the government has increased the funding for the agency to carry out such information continuously. It is relatively small in relation to the many billions in the pension system and the great importance of knowledge for future pensioners to know what their finances look like. Finally, I believe that there are many pensioners and future pensioners who are impatiently waiting for the Pensions Group's solid investigations, analyses and discussions – of a complex pension system, to be highlighted – to lead to results and delivery soon. Perhaps important pension issues will come to light even as an early Christmas present. Who knows? Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-ba85b049978249cc-174	Madam President, I would like I thank you for the opportunity to come to this House and talk about such an important subject as our pensions and, above all, how we will ensure long-term financial security for all the elderly in Sweden. In Sweden we have about 2 million pensioners and 8 million future pensioners – yes, because we are all in the labour market. Pensions are really something that affects all of us. It concerns me, my siblings, my family, grandmother and grandfather, grandmother and grandfather, nephews and schoolchildren. The pension is meant to provide security during old age to those who have been involved in building up our country and with their work laid the foundation for what is our common welfare. This is a very important part of our Swedish model. One condition, ladies and gentlemen, for us to provide this security is that we have a pension system that is stable both financially and politically. We see how many countries in our world, including Europe, are struggling with their pension systems, which are causing major economic deficits and preventing important reforms and efforts from being made. We do not have this problem in Sweden, because we have a financially sustainable pension system that is subject to contributions and where every krona earned also gives a pension. This is an important principle which also means that there is a clear link to work. Therefore, a well-functioning labour market with low unemployment is also an important prerequisite for us to be able to deliver good pensions in the future. I myself have a background in the trade union world, and for me it is clear that there is a profit and many benefits of working long-term together. The government attaches great value to safeguarding what the Swedish pension system is based on: that the earnings-related old-age pension is outside the state budget and that a broad cross-block agreement is behind the pension system. It is important both for the Swedish economy and for citizens' confidence in one of our most important security systems. However, the fact that we have a good pension system does not mean that the system cannot be improved. Of course it is. The basic principles of the pension system are important, but we must also dare to develop and modernise the system to meet the challenges we face in Sweden. It is about demographic challenges, but also about the societal changes we see as a result of this. This is exactly what we are discussing in the cross-block Pensions Group, both now and for quite a few years. The task of the pension group is not to take over someone's responsibility but to comply with, care for and control our pension agreement. It should monitor developments in society and be able to quickly come up with proposals that allow pensions to continue to be secured and secured in the long term. That is the role and task of the Pensions Group. This is a task that the Pensions Group takes very seriously and with great responsibility. We have a lot to thank the older people of today. However, one consequence of the tax cuts carried out during the last term of office is that Sweden is now world-unique in taxing pensions higher than wages. That is not the thanks that today's pensioners deserve. It is fundamentally wrong, it is unfair and it creates gaps. That is why the Social Democrats have long been clear about the abolition of the pensioner's tax. We are now making a clear promise: By 2020, this gap between employees and pensioners will be completely eliminated. A year ago, we took a first step in removing the difference in taxation for those with the lowest incomes. Next year, we will take the next step when the tax is reduced by up to SEK 5,000 a year for 75 percent of those over 65. We know that too many people are waiting for an active life with a good economy after working life. But there are also far too many who live under scarce conditions. Some may wonder about trips to the sun while others wonder if the money is enough for the transportation service. When the Swedish economy goes as a train, it should also be visible in the wallet, even for those who have left working life. It has therefore been important for the government to invest heavily in Sweden's pensioners, to invest in the well-being of the elderly and, together with the Pensions Group, to set up a study that is now reviewing the basic protection of the pension system, both the housing supplement and the guarantee pension, and which will present its proposal at the beginning of next year. In fact, by the end of the year 290 000 pensioners will receive an increase in the housing allowance. The last time the ceiling of the housing supplement was raised was ten years ago. Now it is rising from $1,000 to $600 a month, and this will make a difference to those with thin wallets. You shouldn't have to have a lump in your stomach to pay the rent. Since we took over government power, deficits have been turned into surpluses in state finances, and many more today have a job to go to. We have now turned the trend around for Sweden, and instead of tax cuts and cuts, we invest in welfare to develop the Swedish model. Strong welfare is something that makes us all winners, and a strong economy also strengthens the pension system and increases pensions. The fact that we have changed the direction for Sweden, cleaned up and got things straight in the Swedish economy also appears in pensioners' wallets all over the country. Next year, Sweden's pensioners will on average have received SEK 1 100 more in their wallets every month compared to when we reach them. Pensions are an important and serious issue that requires both long-term and responsibility. As a newly appointed Minister of Social Security, I was involved in phasing out the so-called seaman's pension, which was introduced in 1848. I heard that someone mentioned Greece in the debate here earlier. In recent years, they have seen their pensions fall, not one, not two, not three, not four, not five, not six – I could continue – but thirteen times in recent years. It's not stable, and it's not sustainable. That's not how it's supposed to be in Sweden. That is why I think it is important that the parties behind the Swedish pension system are prepared to take responsibility, both politically and financially, and understand the long-term nature of the work involved: to take responsibility for the Swedish pensions. We will continue to work to develop and strengthen the pension system and to ensure that both present and future generations are confident of adequate pensions.
i-ba85b049978249cc-194	Madam President, I would like In 2013, we received a broad law against age discrimination. The question then arose as to whether it stood against 67 years as a limit on the right to remain in employment, but there the EU has said that the border is proportionate to the needs that exist. The 67-year limit that we have governs chronological age limits in other social security systems, among other things, but much wider than that. Now there has come a book, Elderly Law, that reviews the chronological age limits. At the same time, it is stressed that this is about individuals who add years to life in different ways, and then the chronological age limits are wrong. These are not based on people's needs but on preconceptions about the age of 67 or 65, or 85– there are such age limits as well. My question is: will the government go through the age limits, which are uprooted around 65 or 67 and more, to see if they are to be changed and benefits are based on needs, not chronological age?
i-ba85b049978249cc-197	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Barbro Westerholm, for raising this important issue! An important step for Sweden has been that we introduced a flexible retirement age and gave more people the opportunity to stay longer, based on the fact that they want to. I think a great deal needs to be done in this area. We have extensive age discrimination in Sweden today. I saw a recent study that described how to become less attractive in the labour market as early as the age of 40, in a country that, at the same time, has a great need for the skills and knowledge of many seniors. My answer, Barbro Westerholm, is that I believe that, hopefully in the near future, we will see a job aimed at removing obstacles to more older people being seen in a different way on the labour market and given the opportunity to contribute their skills further up the age range. This is absolutely necessary, and we see how more and more Swedes also want it and want to contribute their skills to the labour market. My answer is: Yes, I think we will see such a job.
i-ba85b049978249cc-202	Madam President, I would like We need to address the fight against old ageism. The World Health Organization started a year and a half ago with a campaign against anti-ageism and has done a survey in some fifty countries. I think it was 80 000 people asked. It was then found that ageism, the negative discriminatory view of year-rich people, is most pronounced in high-income countries, and Sweden was a worst country. We should be happy about our welfare system, but in its tow, people go over 67 from feeling like someone to becoming nobody when they no longer pay for the work they do. There was a study on this in Östergötland. They do lots of things that society enjoys, such as family carers, active a in the Red Cross and in associations and all sorts of things. We must counteract this, and then the question is: The Work Life Institute is re-emerging in Gävle – can one imagine putting a mission on the institute to concentrate on research on ageism and its causes?
i-ba85b049978249cc-205	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Mr Westerholm is already in the toolbox and is thinking about how to tackle this issue in a practical way, which has many dimensions. It is about social security systems, it is about attitudes and it is about identifying where we see the biggest problems today and thinking about wise measures to get to them. To be honest, I find it somewhat disappointing when you sometimes even have discussions with representatives of employers' organisations or others and you describe that you do not see the value of the older workforce. This is not how we can have it in a country like Sweden in 2017, where we know that we add many more healthy years to life and where we really need our seniors both on the labour market and active in society at large. We know today that many people who want to stay and make an effort after 67 and may have a financial need for this but who, for various reasons, cannot remain at their workplace choose to start their own business. We see this increase quite clearly at that age limit. It is clear that we are going to remove barriers and stimulate people to be active both in society at large and in the workplace.
i-ba85b049978249cc-210	Madam President, I would like The current pension system means that many people receive very low pensions. This applies not least to women, workers and people who have immigrated to Sweden. The low pensions particularly affect those who have not been able to work until the usual retirement age of 65. The pension system is negotiated in a closed pension group where representatives of the government and bourgeois parties sit. There is now evidence that the group wants to raise the minimum retirement age and also raise the upper one to 67 years. This can affect those who are worn out and receive low pensions very hard.
i-ba85b049978249cc-213	Madam President, I would like On this issue, Rossana Dinamarca, the attitude of the Left Party to me becomes completely incomprehensible. On the one hand, you are saying that women should be given more opportunities to work full-time and opportunities for education, that we should have equal responsibility for children, homes and families, and that we need to stimulate this by means of different means. The pension system, as it is designed, is precisely a driving force to help stimulate this, namely that work should pay for women just as for men. You're talking about having a right to full-time and more people should be entitled to full-time. There I am in complete agreement with you. We know today that inequality in both private and labour markets is a very strong contributor to women's economic disadvantage in Swedish society. But we will not solve this in a pension system by trying to find solutions to overshadow this inequality and pretend that it does not exist. We will resolve this by pursuing with vigour the issue of improving conditions for women in the labour market in the professions where they are burned out, through a more equal take-up of parental insurance and by creating better conditions for equality for women. It's there and so we'll figure this out. Then it goes without saying that we should have fair conditions for those who have poor pensions, whether they are men or women. More needs to be done there, and there we have a broad sense of responsibility in the Pensions Group precisely in order to achieve this. But in order to achieve this, you need to have a financially stable system to lean on and not something that puts debt on future children and grandchildren. The argument doesn't go together on the Left Party's side, unfortunately.
i-ba85b049978249cc-217	Madam President, I would like I can agree with what Annika Strandhäll says about what is necessary measures to improve women's, eventually, pensions. The problem is that we have not fixed this. My question remains in view of the fact that what it looks like today will take 50 years before we have an equal take-out of parental insurance, 50 years before we have equal pay and 150 years before we have fair pensions. Today, people in the LO collective are unable to work until the current retirement age of 65. Nevertheless, it is proposed to increase the retirement age even further. How will it affect their pensions, and especially those of women?
i-ba85b049978249cc-219	Madam President, I would like Rossana Dinamarca speculates about something she actually has no idea about. But I can make one thing clear: no one should be forced to work until either 67, 69 or 75 years of age. Of course, we would never support such a thing. But it is also, of course, a matter of pure mathematics. I think everyone understands that you cannot have a situation in a country where people enter the labour market anywhere between the ages of 26 and 29 and leave it at the age of 63.8 and then think that you can fund pensions on it. There, among other things, the Pensions Group has a task. We will see what we can do to support up in a situation so amazing that life expectancy increases in the way it does in Sweden. How, at this point, can we continue to have a financially sustainable pension system while taking into account people's different circumstances? That is exactly what you are discussing. We should not start to blur on things that are about financial stability linked to our pensions. It would be directly devastating and also foolish. I have to get back to Rossana Dinamarcas's argumentation. You think we should correct inequality in the labour market, cover it up and fix the symptoms with a pension system. With the same argument, we could have discussed it in the 1970s and meant that it would still take so long before men would want to take their joint responsibility that we would instead ensure that we retain maternity insurance and compensate the tax route or in some other way for women so that they can remain at home. It's a misthinking. I believe that this is a misjudgement linked to the pension system. It is extremely important also for women that we ensure that we have a financially stable and sustainable pension system that does not put debt on our future generations. It is as much in the interests of the Left Party as in the interests of everyone else.
i-ba85b049978249cc-225	Madam President, I would like I didn't really intend to go up and take any line, but when Mathias Tegnér, colleague of Annika Strandhäll, and then also the minister himself brought this up I couldn't help it. That is political rhetoric, and perhaps we should have used it in a government position – that must be admitted. But when you brag about your own tax policy and hit the Alliance's tax policy a little bit, I had to press the red button and ask for a reply. I have to say this once again, even though I have said it so many times before: the Alliance did not raise taxes on pensioners. We lowered the tax by exactly 16.45 billion. It was 16.45 billion higher during Göran Persson's last year. So we reduced the tax overall by so much over these eight years. On the other hand, we did a bad educational thing: We increased the tax credit even more, which made it felt like there was a tax increase for pensioners. I want to say this because so many people have got it wrong. If we are now going to use rhetoric and to go back a little bit historically: In the 1990s, between 1995 and 1998, the same Persson who had that high tax pensions significantly lowered. Sometimes rhetoric leads back and forth to hitting each other. Nor have the Moderates, as a party, opposed the tax cut that the government is now proposing. On the contrary, we welcome it. It does, as has been said before, that with pension increases and tax cuts together, it will be a real good outcome for pensioners both in the previous two years and now. But it also depends on the time shift. Pensions are raised two years after a good year financially.
i-ba85b049978249cc-229	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng, for your post! I can't believe I thought you wouldn't be able to hold back from pressing the button and asking for a line on this question! However, it is not possible to ignore the fact that Sweden is unique in having a situation where its pensioners pay much more tax than employees do. It is deeply unfair that we have a tax gap that looks like this. It is an extremely important issue for Sweden's seniors, who feel that this is a deep injustice. That is why it is also an incredibly important priority for this government to eliminate this tax gap. We have spent quite a lot of resources during our term of office doing just that. Swedish pensioners have been involved in building up our country. They should be able to feel that pensions are deferred wages and should therefore not be taxed in any other way than income from work. It is a matter of intergenerational justice, and it is a matter of course for our government. We are, of course, delighted that we are now slightly more parties in this Parliament who see that this was not a wise way to go.
i-ba85b049978249cc-232	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Annika Strandhäll! It was important to take this particular line. It could be seen in the wrong way, as the alliance government raising taxes. We didn't. We lowered the tax record a lot. The tax has never been reduced as much as in the eight years. It is also important to bring the other piece. We have had a good dialogue in the Pensions Group, not much on tax issues because these are not our issues. However, we have a good dialogue on the other pension issues. I hope, want and wish that we can come up with a new pension arrangement that can complement the old one from the 1990s. This together – tax breaks, pension increases and all – makes it look really good in the next few years. I know that both the Government and I are happy about it.
i-ba85b049978249cc-236	Madam President, I would like I agree, once again. We really need to make sure that the situation is improved by various means, not least for those of Sweden's pensioners who are the most deprived. It is largely women, as has also been said in the debate today. The group that only has a guarantee pension, often a group of older female pensioners who were in work at a time when it was comme il faut that women should be at home with children, has a very tough financial situation today. All politicians need to take responsibility for this situation. I think we are prepared to do so too. We need to use the means we have to do so. Finally, Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng, it is true that you lowered the tax record much during the alliance government. We also took over a deficit of 60 billion for the unfunded tax cuts. We have now turned this into a surplus. But we are debating this more on another occasion.
i-ba85b049978249cc-239	Madam President, I would like I, too, must protest at the history of the Minister of Social Affairs with regard to the tax on pensioners. Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng gave a good account of the facts. That's why I won't dwell on it. Instead, I would like to ask a question about how we can achieve a longer working life. It is important for what pensions should look like today, but perhaps above all in the future. The discussion revolves much around how to create incentives for people to stay longer in the labour market, i.e. a later exit from the labour market. However, there is another way to achieve this. It is trying to get young people to establish themselves earlier on the labour market. We know that young people are establishing themselves quite late in the labour market in Sweden. When SCB has followed this up in the 21st century it has varied between 26 and 29 years for men, and it is still later for women. At the beginning of the 1990s, the age of establishment was between 20 and 21 years. There are, of course, natural differences, as more people study longer and so on. But even in comparison, Sweden is a couple of years above the OECD average, actually up to four years over countries such as the UK and the Netherlands. It will of course have a major impact on people's future pensions.
i-ba85b049978249cc-244	Madam President, I would like I agree with Mr Aron's description of the problem. It's a big worry today. The average age of entry is 29 for women and 26 for men. It's alarmingly late. To be careful, it is incredibly important for the final pension to come in earlier. But if we are to see what you get in the pension envelope, it is perhaps even more important to have the conditions to be able to add some further year at the end. An extra year at the end of working life means an average of 8 per cent higher pension, as the share ratio is considerably lower. It makes a big difference. This is also an important issue for the government. We look at different ways to create opportunities for more people to enter the labour market sooner and easier. I believe that Mr Aron recognizes many of those aspects of labour market policy. It has to do with just how to get in faster and establish yourself, learn the job at the workplace together with the opportunity to study for example. We have several such measures. I honestly believe that this is an issue on which we will have to focus a lot in the coming years. It is also an issue that we have discussed a lot in the Pensions Group. We need to focus comprehensively on the different parts. These may include adjustments in the study aid system, for example, in order to stimulate early graduation.
i-ba85b049978249cc-249	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs for his answer. We know that a later exit from the labour market has a major impact on one's own pension. However, working on this front does not exclude that you can also work on previous establishment. A few years ago, the pension manager Alecta made a calculation of exactly what it would give to establish yourself in the labour market at the age of 25 rather than 30. For a person with a fully normal salary and normal wage development, it would be SEK 4,000 more per month in the next pension. So it is far from unimportant. In order to achieve this, the Christian Democrats want to see a double tax deduction for young people, in order to stimulate previous entry into the labour market. We also want to see a degree bonus for people who take their first academic degree before the age of 25. Then you get another two years with a double job tax deduction. It should simply pay off. We also want to see a change in the study funding system to stimulate faster throughput, precisely so that there will not be a stop there. This issue is so important. I can only pass on to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Government for the forthcoming work that this part of the issue should not be forgotten.
i-ba85b049978249cc-255	Madam President, I would like I can assure you that part of the question is not forgotten. Fortunately, we are now also seeing the highest employment rate among young people since, I believe, before the financial crisis in the 1990s. That's very good. More young people come to work and contribute. The other side of this coin, which makes me, as Minister of Social Affairs, convinced that the issue will be high on the agenda, is that we have a sharp labour shortage in the labour market – in many different professions. It is not only about academic professions but also, to a very great extent, about craft occupations. An important reform that the government is implementing now is, for example, to ensure that vocational upper secondary schools will also grant higher education qualifications. It was when the previous change took place that the search pressure for vocational education and training dipped. I think it's going to have a certain impact. During working life you should be able to change direction quickly and easily. It is therefore important that vocational upper secondary schools also grant higher education qualifications. I would like to thank you for a good discussion. I look forward to a continuation of that.
i-ba85b049978249cc-260	Madam President, I would like Sweden is an equal country. In fact, we are one of the world's most equal countries, a fact that gives cause for both joy and pride. Well-developed childcare facilities and generous parental insurance provide opportunities for women and men to both work and start a family, which is very positive and gratifying. While we have reason to rejoice, we must not turn a blind eye to the challenges that exist. There is a long way to go before equality is achieved. Women still earn less than men, work part-time more, take greater responsibility for unpaid domestic work, and are more at home when one of the children has become ill. Madam President, I would like Work is a cornerstone of an equal society. The reforms of the Alliance government to improve the drive for work and reduce exclusion have contributed to increased conditions for economic equality. In order to further pave the way for greater equality there are a number of things that need to be done, for example in the area of economic family policy and other areas with an impact on it. What builds gender equality is your own work and livelihood. If more parents distributed parental benefit days more equally between them, this would most likely increase women's labour force participation, which would also strengthen gender equality. However, the Moderates reject any idea of individualised parental insurance. All families have different conditions, and a regulatory framework that makes violence on families' ability to decide for themselves would have negative consequences for very many families. For this reason, instead, we in the Moderates see the need for the driving forces of labour to be strengthened, including through tax cuts aimed at those with the lowest incomes. This would make it more profitable not least for women to increase their labour force participation. For those who have children and have not yet entered the labour market, it is important that there are good opportunities to leave children in preschool. Long absence from the labour market, for example as a result of the choice of combining parental benefit at basic level with different benefits, raising the thresholds and increasing the risk of long-term exclusion. The risk of this is high not least among foreign-born women, who have an employment rate that is 23% lower than for native women. Therefore, we propose that parental benefit at basic level, in other words for those without earned income, should be limited to 365 days. At the same time, the right to free preschool is extended to 30 hours for children of parents who are long-term unemployed. In this way, we increase the opportunities for people to move from exclusion to work. As far as the child benefit is concerned, we believe that full access to Swedish benefits and benefits should be obtained only through own employment or through permanent and legal residence in Sweden. For this reason, inter alia, the multi-child allowance must only be paid to a citizen or a person who has a job. This is estimated to save more than 186 million in 2018 compared to the Government's proposal. Madam President, I would like Another area where the Moderates see the need for change is the issue of maintenance support. Today's system is not working well enough in the sense that children are at risk of a lower level of maintenance than they could have if the rules on maintenance were complied with. There is also a risk of conflict-driven behaviour, which is something that several of the country's women's shelters have warned against. The government has recently implemented some changes in the system and increased maintenance support. Nevertheless, the central problem of two separate systems for calculating maintenance remains. The Moderates therefore propose that an investigation be commissioned to review today's construction with maintenance and maintenance support. I would like to emphasise that the Moderates believe that it is, of course, desirable for parents to agree on economic issues on their own. But in the event that this is not possible – and there are many such cases – we want to see a more neutral, objective and predictable calculation of the size of the maintenance. Such a model would be easy to view and would strengthen the single economy, especially the economy of women.
i-SbXHDGX7oj21QgyHXNir29	The number of young people with activity compensation between the ages of 19 and 30 has increased by 500 per cent since 2003. At the same time, Förförsäkringskassan's analysis shows that 20-25 per cent of those who previously had activity support have some form of earned income after the 30th anniversary. This is an indication that young people are being retired early despite their ability to work. One reason is that many people receive activity support already during school and then remain in the system. The Moderates want to reform the replacement model in the event of extended schooling so that young people do not automatically receive early retirement only because they go to special school. Young people with extended schooling should be covered by the usual study support system. Early retirement should not be a right but granted by Försäkringskassan according to needs. Madam President, I would like The Parliament decided on 22 November 2017 on a framework for the spending areas of the state budget and on the calculation of central government revenue. In the motion We believe in Sweden – The Moderates' Budget Movement 2018 presented the Moderates' Draft Budget and the Alliance's guidelines for economic policy. I am in favour of Amendment No 6 and I refer to our specific opinion.
i-ba85b049978249cc-282	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our reservations 1, 7 and 18. At the same time, of course, we support all of our reservations and our specific opinion on the allocation. For a prosperous society, the Swedish Democrats believe that healthy families are a basic prerequisite. Every day too many parents of young children can sometimes be tough. Just putting together the life puzzle with childcare, school, work, remains and pick-ups can be difficult enough; I know that from my own everyday life with three small children and life as an active politician. For low-income earners and especially for single parents it can be even tougher to make ends meet. There may also be concerns about making the money sufficient for food and clothing. We politicians need to support families without restricting their freedom of action. The central starting point for the Swedish Democrats' family policy is that the best interests of children should always be taken into account in all situations in the area of family policy. I believe that the objectives of family policy all too often have an adult perspective. The Social Democrats all too often describe family formation and children as a barrier to gender equality. All too often we hear that children are described as women's traps, just like spending time with your own children would be a punishment. Of course, both women and men must be given equal opportunities to combine work and family life, but this is not the way to do it by force and by speaking derogatoryly of family and family life while working life is being raised to the skies. Instead, the status of taking responsibility for their children should be strengthened, no matter who is responsible. In the end, it is still the children who are most important to us parents and that the children should feel good. We parents become aware of this, not least in difficult situations. I experienced such a situation last week. The only thing that mattered then was that the children are well. In this year's budget, Sweden's democrats prioritise supporting the most vulnerable families while the government's budget provides weak support for the most vulnerable while further strengthening the economy for high-income earners. The loud words of the Social Democrats about solidarity for the most vulnerable thus echo empty. I'll explain a little more how I mean. We can compare our proposal to increase the housing allowance, i.e. about 1 billion, with the government's proposal to increase the basic level of the general child benefit. According to the report, no.2017:1689, done by the Swedish Parliament's investigation service, shows that a household with a monthly salary of SEK 10 000 receives an increased disposable income of approximately SEK 8 500 per year, or SEK 700 per month, with the Swedish Democrats' proposal. This compares with the Government's proposal to increase the basic level of the general child benefit. A strengthened housing allowance can, for example, mean the possibility of better winter clothes or other different and very basic things that are needed to meet the children's needs. The same study shows that a household with a monthly salary of SEK 35 000 would receive about the same change in disposable income with our proposal for an increase in housing allowance as if the basic level of the general child benefit were raised. On the other hand, we can admit that a household with a salary income of approximately SEK 50 000 per month would lose about SEK 1 100 with our proposal for an increase in housing allowance compared to raising child benefit. However, this is a reduction we can stand for. Our increased housing allowance thus benefits the most vulnerable families while the Social Democrats' proposal to increase child benefit benefits benefit everyone a little, including high income earners. In addition to raising the housing allowance, we also want to strengthen parental insurance. Economics should not be a crucial obstacle to family formation. A strengthened parental allowance can also be a good way to achieve equality over forced quotas. I have an example from a family in my family. For the man, it is completely impossible to take out the 90 days. One option for them is to sell the house, and that's not a good option. The second option is that the child may simply start early in preschool and that the father's days may burn inside. Our starting point in family policy is that parents themselves best decide how they want to spend time with their children based on their specific situation and children's needs. If you want a more even distribution, you need to strengthen parental insurance so that it doesn't push the economy as hard who's at home. How to set up everyday life is not something we politicians should rule over. All children are different, and all family situations are different. For example, my children have started to like baby food quite early, but I have relatives whose children have healed up to nine months of age, despite attempts at other food. It cannot be reasonable for politicians to decide how long a child should breast-feed. The pursuit of certain political goals cannot take precedence over the best interests of children. I sincerely hope that parental insurance will not be subject to further compulsory quotas for up to six months. The time with the children when they are young is something that never comes back. For some, the custody allowance may mean an opportunity to spend more time with the most valuable things a parent has, his own children. For the Social Democrats, however, children are perhaps seen more as an obstacle to equality rather than as some people want to be given the opportunity to spend more time. The Social Democrats do not want to see a child-care allowance, but we want that and we want to increase it as well. It is also our ambition to reach a higher percentage of granted applications for pregnancy benefit. The final stage of pregnancy can be very tough, and we want more women than today to be given the opportunity to scale down or take a complete break from work during the last weeks of pregnancy. Here the health of the child and mother must come first. The fact that not all the increases and reinforcements in our draft budget are clearly visible in Category 12 is due to the fact that we give priority to the welfare of Swedish citizens. The idea is that non-citizens should receive basic support through a central benefit system and the possibility to qualify for child benefit, parental allowance, housing allowance etc. by working at least one year over a two-year period. Madam President, I would like We want all families, including those with low incomes, to have the opportunity to contribute to a safe childhood for their children. The basis for a prosperous society is, as I said, well-being of families and children.
i-ba85b049978249cc-302	Madam President, I would like It feels urgent to talk about the most important thing we have, that is, our children. Making things better for children is what the report is about. Consider what parents need for this to happen. I think there are three things that stand out. So it is a whole. Let me get back to that. What is most important of these three things I do not know, because they belong together. The problem is that the government does not share my view on this. Instead, the government is focusing on raising subsidies. Of course, it provides better finances for parents, but being able to combine with working life will not be as easy. In the majority text of the report, the report states that "Hushåll, who lives in financial vulnerability for long periods of time, needs continued support from family policy in order to improve the economy of the household." That's right, but why should you just increase the contributions? These include child allowance, child allowance, child support, parental insurance, housing allowance and additional allowances. In one sentence of the report, the majority state that they may also be in need of action outside the field of expenditure, for example. in the field of education and labour market policy. Then there is nothing more about this in the report. We in the Center Party want to invest in carrots to encourage parents to fulfil the three things I mentioned at the beginning. Then the money from the subsidies is not the most important thing, it is job-promoting measures. It would be very good to use some of the money that the government now wants to raise to promote labour market measures instead so that parents can get into the labour market and earn better. Another thing that the Center Party and the Alliance government introduced was the gender equality bonus, which was a carrot to stimulate and enable both parents to be at home no matter what they earned. But look at it, the government has ironed out, because it wasn't good! Why did the government not look at how the system could be improved? The parents could then be given an incentive to share parental leave. We in the Center Party also want to introduce a vab bonus. It means that you should be able to share a vab more easily and not lose income if you are at home caring for your sick child. Of course, it's not something the government has taken to heart. Bonus schemes could also be a way of stimulating – as the majority writes in their text – equal conditions of upbringing for all children. But some such bonus systems do not want to resort to, in any case not vab-bonus that dissuades s. Parents should be allowed to decide more how to share parental leave and be given the opportunity to decide how they want to take parenting days. Minimum level days and guarantee days in parental insurance govern how the days are taken out. Instead, if this were to be put together in parental insurance and allowed parents to decide entirely how to take out parental days, this would definitely contribute to a more equal take-out of parental insurance. But no, even that proposal rejects the government side. As I mentioned at the beginning, three conditions were important. We from the Center Party wanted to contribute to a parliamentary inquiry into parental insurance to see the whole picture. But no, nor did the government agree to that, but they set up their own investigation. The government has now taken a wide range of measures in the area of parental insurance, individually. This parental insurance investigation is due in about a week. Duttning here and there does not give a whole thing and no easy and transparent parental insurance, and one that does not care the left-wing government about. They have also, as we heard earlier from Helena Bonnier from the Moderates, looked at the maintenance support and how separate parents make their finances go together. It would make it easier for us to have another investigation in this area, but there too a proposal has been put forward that has been reviewed here in the Riksdag – yet another way forward. We in the Center Party have also proposed in our budget to give two more adults close to the child the opportunity to take out parental insurance. The reason for this is that families today look different. But you haven't agreed to that either. Parental insurance for entrepreneurs and students is also important, but it is also lacking in this proposal. Making small occasional contributions, as has been done here, is not good. However, if an entrepreneur who has parental insurance could make a small effort, such as paying an invoice, writing an invoice or perhaps calling in a substitute, without missing his parental allowance, that would actually make it easier. For students, there is much to improve if they are to receive reasonable parental insurance and parental leave. This report has also referred to the need to come back with a proposal on changes to the care allowance and disability benefit for parents whose children have disabilities. We from the Center Party are extremely hesitant about this. As far as children and their needs are concerned, the study has not in any way looked at the legal implications of the various proposals and whether they would make it easier for parents to have a financial opportunity to help their children, for example in the case of diabetes. Yesterday, I met the National Association of Visually Impaired, which is also extremely doubtful about this. My intention in the speech has been to show the shortcomings of the government in terms of seeing parental insurance as a whole. We have other proposals to enable a better economy, shared parental insurance and professional work in combination with parenthood. I regret that the government has not agreed to them. With that, Madam President, I would like to endorse Amendment No 11 and refer to our specific opinion in this report.
i-ba85b049978249cc-320	Madam President, I would like The main focus of the Left Party in the budget negotiations with the Government has consistently been to reduce the income gap between women and men. One sure way to do this is to strengthen the economy of single parents, partly through better financial support and partly through increased opportunities to work. Single people have a worse economy than cohabiting people, and even worse is the economy of single people with children. The majority of single parents are women. In addition, single mothers have more often insecure employment than others. The Left Party, together with the government, has therefore implemented a series of reforms that, among other things, strengthen the economy of single parents. Child benefit has been increased, child support has been increased and the basic level of parental insurance has been increased by SEK 250 per day. Support has also been increased for families with children. The Left Party also agrees with the Government regarding the income limits of the housing allowance granted to families with children; they have increased during this year. For households who take part of the total increase, the housing allowance is increased by SEK 167 per month. From 2018, the maintenance allowance will be increased by an additional SEK 150 for children aged 15 and over. For many children and single parents, this will mean a great deal. It is a group that has been standing back for many years, and the debate on child poverty has been going on for a long time. Of course, the poverty of children is due to the poverty of their parents. That is why we need an economic policy that makes up for inequality and creates an economy that works for everyone, not just for the richest. Efforts are needed for more jobs, the right to full-time work, better unemployment insurance, health insurance and the right to childcare even on inconvenient working hours. This would reduce adult poverty and thus child poverty. Single parents must be given better opportunities to combine parenting and working life. In addition to the efforts I have already mentioned, in the budget negotiations with the government, we have also pushed through an increase in the number of children's allowances, free medicine for children up to the age of 18, glasses for children and state summer holiday support for municipalities that offer free activities. An economically safe childhood provides more choices and also provides opportunities to live the same life and do the same things as their friends. Improving the economy of the most deprived children reduces the risk of social vulnerability later in life. Madam President, I would like Parental insurance is the most important key to achieving gender equality. Individualised parental insurance is the reform that would do the most for greater equality between men and women in economics, health and working life opportunities. In the light of the metoo revolution we are now in the midst of, parental insurance also plays a crucial role in breaking men's order, which enables sexism, sexual harassment, abuse and violence that tens of thousands of women have witnessed in the last two months. Women still bear the main responsibility for homes and children. Despite several progress in the field of gender equality, this is still the case. If we do not do anything actively, it will take five decades before we have an equal take-out of parental days, five decades before we have equal pay and one and a half centuries before we have equal pensions. Women have more precarious employment, poorer conditions and lower wages and work more part-time. Women are more sick than men, and the difference increases even more after women have their first child. Since our pension is based on our entire income and women live longer, we also have lower pensions than men. The majority of pensioners are also women. As I said before, we know that many old women are still in relationships, but not always out of love. Sometimes it is because it is impossible to survive economically on your own. Often, and here too, it is argued that the reason parents do not share parental leave equally is that it is not financially beneficial for the family. But it is a myth, according to Försäkringskassan's statistics. Even in families where the mother earns more than the father, the woman usually takes a larger share of parental leave. Among couples where women take full parental leave, 50 percent of men say that it is because it is most beneficial and 29 percent that the reason is that the partner wanted to be at home with the child. Instead, the most common response from women who had taken the entire parental leave was that the partner could not or did not want to be on parental leave. The whole life situation of women is at stake here. Taking out parental insurance affects women's working conditions, wages, health and pension. As is generally the case today, women are adversely affected. The government has the ambition to be a feminist government. That is good, and the Left Party has helped the government to live up to it. However, a government with an ambition to be feminist must also dare to tackle the structural problems, and parental insurance plays a key role, as I said. The state cannot continue to contribute to inequality that affects all our daughters. I don't want to see my daughter write, m etoo.
i-ba85b049978249cc-337	Madam President, I would like Sweden has one of the world's best parental insurance policies, and we should be proud of that. When I meet people who live in other countries and we talk about Swedish parental insurance, they are very impressed by how it works. In 1931 came the maternity insurance. That's the foundation and the embryo of the insurance we're working on today. In 1974 came the first parental insurance. We were the first country in the world to allow both mothers and fathers to take paid parental leave. Since 1974 a lot has happened. Society has changed, and parental insurance has also changed. It's good today, but it can get a lot better. In today's Sweden, it is obvious that both parents are active in their children's childhood and that most share parental insurance. But we also know that today it is still mothers who spend more of their days. Slowly, fathers' withdrawals from parental insurance are increasing. As a liberal, I am in favour of both freedom of choice and self-determination, and on this particular issue they are collapsing. I want the parents to decide for themselves how they distribute the parenting days. At the same time, however, I know how important it is for equality to both take out days. Therefore, the Liberals think it is important that we reintroduce the gender equality bonus so that we continue to encourage a more even take-out of parental days. From the Liberals' side, we also want to make it possible to collect temporary parental benefit, that is, the days on which the parents are able to use when the child is ill. That is what we today call vab, the care of children. We want the opportunity to take out these days even when the child is in school. Then I think primarily of children who have some form of chronic illness and where the parents need to meet the school staff to teach them about the child's illness. One such example may be diabetes. During school, the staff of the school are responsible for the child. They need to know about the child's condition and how to treat and respond to the child. Parents know their child best, and they are best placed to inform the school staff. As things stand today, parents do not have the opportunity to take vabs for those days, but have to take leave, leave or leave in order to inform the school about this. We Liberals think that is wrong. As I said before, we have one of the world's best parental insurance policies. We'll be proud of that. But we can make it much better. I therefore call for reservation 9 and refer to our specific opinion on the whole of the draft budget.
i-ba85b049978249cc-345	Madam President, I would like It is ongoing and has been going on for a number of decades an individualization in society. Today, people can choose in a completely different way than before to shape their lives according to their own desires, values and interests. Different groups and collective expectations are by no means unimportant. But they tend to mean less and less to the different choices people make in terms of, for example, education, occupation, family formation, religious affiliation and political conviction. In many respects individualization is positive. It can increase the power of individuals over their own lives. More people can choose to go their own way through life. More and more people can realize their dreams and goals. But there are also drawbacks and risks to development. If individualisation leads to more fragile and less stable communities, trust, security and cohesion in society can be adversely affected. One way of weighing up the more negative aspects is to pursue a policy that strengthens close relations, small communities, civil society and families. Madam President, I would like Children and young people who grow up in a secure family community are generally well placed to meet the challenges of life. Of course, there is no guarantee that everything will go well just because you grew up in a well-functioning family, but the probability increases significantly. Children growing up in stable families generally have higher grades in school, progress to higher education to a greater extent, have a higher degree of mental well-being and are less likely to end up in unemployment and exclusion compared to children from more unstable conditions. In other words, strong families benefit our children and young people. They are good for society at large, and they will eventually also strengthen the public purse. One of the obvious objectives of family policy should therefore be to provide the best possible conditions for families to stay together and be a stable basis for as many parents as possible to provide safe growing conditions for their children. Madam President, I would like There is a variety of family forms in Sweden today. This diversity exists because people are different, have different characteristics, experiences and desires. All of us, however, need close and loving fellowship. Different families perform essentially the same function. They share the same everyday problems, and it is not the family form that determines the parents'situation and ability to give the children a good upbringing. Children have different needs, and parents have different preferences and set different priorities. But it is always the parents who have the primary responsibility to determine what is best for their children and their family. It is not the responsibility of the State or the municipality. Madam President, I would like This very insight forms the basis of the Christian Democrats' family policy. The reason why we want to see more flexible parental insurance with a free withdrawal during the child's first three years, without quotas, with an increased number of double days and with the possibility of transferring parental benefit days to relatives is precisely that the children should be able to get more time together with their parents regardless of the family's appearance. Parents should also be able to design their lives and everyday lives according to the conditions they live by. We want to enhance parenthood and give parents room for manoeuvre, but we also want to take responsibility for their own situation. This is important. Unlike the government, we are safeguarding everyone's ability to make active choices rather than the same outcome. This means acceptance because the result is not always the same for all families with children. Different outcomes may be due to different conditions – here politics has an important task in levelling out the conditions. But it may also be because families have simply made different priorities and different choices, which ultimately lead to different outcomes or which otherwise have financial consequences. Madam President, I would like For the Christian Democrats, it is also a priority to support families financially. In this context, the general policy approach should be to provide better opportunities for work and self-saving. That is an important reason why we propose in our budget a job tax deduction for parents who work. But in our budget for next year, we also have several proposals aimed directly at families with children with a weaker economy. We propose that the child-related part of the housing allowance be increased, and we want to reintroduce the leisure allowance. From the Christian Democrats' perspective for the current government a very unhappy policy with more regulation and taxes, which we believe will have a negative impact on the country's families. Unfortunately, Madam President, this – in the time of individualisation – teaches in the long term to affect the strength of the whole of society and our economy in the same direction. I would like to say that, of course, we in the Christian Democrats support our motion for Category 12 and our specific opinion in the report. In addition, I would like to ask you to accept reservation 3.
i-ba85b049978249cc-361	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the committee's SfU3 report, which concerns the appropriations for Category 12 Economic security for families and children. In Sweden there are just over 2 million children affected in one way or another by economic family policy. It is designed on the basis of the principle of the best interests of the child and an equal parenthood and is an important part of the Swedish model with a general welfare that covers everyone. The ambition of the Social Democrats is to combine a policy of high employment and sustainable growth with greater equity and reduction of social gaps. That is how we ensure that prosperity and success are shared by all. That is how we build cohesion and trust in society. This is how we strengthen the security of Sweden's families with children. This does not happen through tax cuts and cuts. Families with children often live in a busy everyday life with a puzzle of life that is going to go together. They are downloads, remains, homework and leisure activities. Another important piece of the puzzle is the economy. With family formation there will be increased costs for food and housing. It's millet, diapers, bikes and winter shoes. Sweden should be a safe country. No child should live in poverty or have to worry about these things. A general well-being is basically about every child having safe and good growing-up conditions. With the means-tested support and social security, we level out risks and costs between generations, between us who work and those who have had the misfortune to suffer from illness, between households with children and households without children. Distribution policy plays a major role in the income of families with children. A successful example of how we both politically and financially meet children's needs is the child benefit. Child benefit really makes a difference for ordinary families with children in Sweden – not only, but perhaps above all, for those with lower incomes. When the child benefit was introduced in the 1930s, it was support for poor mothers. When it became universal and equal for everyone in the 40's it was a pillar of the welfare society that had then started to be built up in Sweden. Child benefit, together with other family policies, with the expansion of childcare facilities and the world's best parenting insurance, has certainly contributed to the fact that women in particular, but also, of course, men, do not have to choose between children and employment. The higher employment rate – Sweden is now at the absolute peak – has stimulated higher growth and gender equality. Fortunately, we see that we do not have the same problems as many other countries across Europe, with too low childbirth to ensure welfare in the future. Child benefit has served Sweden well. Sweden is really one of the best countries in the world for a child to grow up in. I can see that. But I also see the gaps in our society and that here too there are many children who suffer from parents living in a financially vulnerable situation. Every child has the right to a good start in life, regardless of social class, gender, functional variations or ethnic background. Many are the studies and experts who have pointed to the ability of the child benefit to contribute to both reduced gaps and increased growth and increased gender equality. I am therefore pleased and proud that the Social Democratic-led government is now proposing that the child benefit be increased by SEK 200 per month and per child. It is an extremely long-awaited and well-motivated venture for ordinary people. We can look at the later history of child benefit. We can see that it has fallen behind. During the time of the bourgeois government in power, the child benefit was not raised once. Instead, they lowered the tax, mostly for those who made the most money. The current level, of SEK 1,050, was introduced by the Social Democratic Government in 2006. We can look back a little and make a impact in 1995. The child benefit was then SEK 680. Thus, the next decade had developed to SEK 1,050. Had it been able to keep up with the same pace even the decade after that, the child benefit today would have been SEK 1,420. There is a difference of 4 400 SEK per child per year for a common Swedish family with children. I hope that the child benefit will continue to be better followed than it has been in the last decade. Now that the budget deficit after the moderate-led government's time in power has turned into surplus, there is finally room for raising the child allowance. At the same time, we are amortising the public debt so that it is at one of the lowest levels for a very long time. Moreover, we are undertaking several other extremely important reforms. For example, 1 billion is allocated to increased equivalence and knowledge development in schools and 1 billion to maternity care. It is also gratifying, I would like to say, that child benefit is now being increased in broad agreement. All parties in the Swedish parliament except the Swedish Democrats support the Government's proposal to increase child benefit. It is a strength that Sweden's families with children get this support. Madam President, I would like We are now dealing with the last budget for the term of office. It is therefore natural to do a little summation. We can start with the first year, marked by budget deficits and a worrying unemployment situation. I note that it was at the time when the alliance parties and the Swedish Democrats voted down the government's budget, which meant that at the time we could not implement any of the strengthening reforms for families with children that we had planned. But the government came back and has since delivered, I can say. The maintenance allowance has been increased, as has the basic level of parental allowance. The increased income limit of the housing allowance for families with children has meant that more households with a weak economy are currently eligible for housing allowance or have received an increase. We have reserved a third month of parental insurance for each parent, thus, together with some other reforms, taking steps towards a more even withdrawal in parental insurance. The list could be made longer, but I think you understand my point. I think we have done a lot that has been good during this parliamentary term. But I would also like to say that there is much more that needs to be done. We still need to do a lot for Sweden's families with children, perhaps above all to support the children who live in the greatest vulnerability. But it is also about the general elements and, of course, about contributing to greater equality between women and men. Fortunately, several reforms are underway. For example, parental insurance is now being investigated a little wider, precisely in order to increase gender equality and adapt the insurance to different family constellations. Another example of ongoing reform work is that it is currently being prepared to provide entrepreneurs with stronger protection linked to these pieces at a structural stage. Madam President, I would like I look forward to the future, where children's and family policies for even more secure conditions and even more gender equality permeate the construction of Sweden's welfare country.
i-ba85b049978249cc-377	Madam President, I would like As is clear from Teresa Carvalhos's speech, the Social Democrats want to continue to focus and decide how parents plan the time for their own children and how the days of parental insurance are to be distributed. This may cause financial damage to families who are not allowed to post the puzzle of life as they wish. I would like to ask what it is that means that the Social Democrats cannot give the parents the confidence to plan their own daily lives themselves. I myself have heard testimony that the alternative may be to allow the child to start early in preschool than the parents may want and the parenting days will burn inside. You might have to sell the house. Another option could be that you raise the level of parental insurance so that the financial impact does not become so dependent on who withdraws it. You can also simply abolish this compulsory quota. What does Teresa Carvalho think is a good alternative?
i-ba85b049978249cc-381	Madam President, I would like Sweden has the world's best parental insurance. I do not know any other country where parents can be at home with their children to the extent that we have the opportunity in Sweden, without having to sell houses and homes, and at the same time receive compensation for it. Sweden has the world's best parental insurance, but at the same time we see that it is not equal. I and the Social Democrats are pursuing a policy of also getting that piece in place within the framework of the fantastic parental insurance we have, because our children deserve a more equal society. There is plenty of room to improve equality in parental insurance, and that is why we think it was a good idea to reserve a third month for each parent. I'm open to going further than that. The fact that you should not have quota days in parental insurance because it restricts the family's freedom of choice is, in my opinion, a rather bad argument. In which other social security policies do we say it should be up to the individual? There is a clear link to the individual who is insured, and in this case the children usually — not always — have two insured parents. I therefore think it is a reasonable starting point to assume that both parents should take responsibility when building such a system. Note well: today we have fantastic parental insurance with incredible flexibility.
i-ba85b049978249cc-386	Madam President, I would like We still have a great deal of flexibility, but that flexibility apparently wants to be further curtailed by the Social Democrats. I find that regrettable. Rather, it would be reasonable to improve the finances of parents so as to give positive encouragement to sharing equally. It cannot be controlled by force. I would like to get into another subject and ask Teresa Carvalho and the Social Democrats how it is that you invest so much in child benefit if you want to benefit the most vulnerable families. I don't mind child benefit. It is a good reform, and it is good that it exists. However, it does not provide sufficient support and is not sufficiently focused on the most vulnerable. Our proposal, in which we instead want to spend 1 billion on the housing allowance, would give a parent who has 10 000 SEK in income per month 700 SEK more a month to live for compared with the government's reform of the child benefit. Child benefit is very broad and also benefits high-income people who may be able to buy that extra trip abroad or an extra Christmas present that they may not need, while the most vulnerable families suffer from not getting a significantly strengthened housing allowance. I would therefore like to ask how it is that such a large amount of money is spent on a reform that does not meet the most vulnerable families well enough. These are the ones we should be giving the most support to.
i-ba85b049978249cc-391	Madam President, I would like As far as parental insurance is concerned, we can see that every time one has reserved days for each parent, it has had a normative effect. Every time we have seen that the withdrawal has become more equal, and if that is the way you want to go, it is also natural to continue looking at such tools rather than financial bonuses and incentives. I understand that the Swedish Democrats do not have the same ambition in this area as the Social Democrats. For us, however, it is an important goal to achieve more equal benefits in parental insurance, and that is why we have chosen to do so. As far as the child benefit is concerned, I can once again say that the Swedish Democrats are the only party in the Swedish parliament that says no to raising the child benefit for ordinary people. The reason why we are raising child benefit is in no way, which is a bit insinuated here, that we do not want to invest in the families that are in the most difficult situation. On the contrary, throughout the entire term of office, we have been providing support precisely to those parents and families who have been in the most difficult situation. We have increased the maintenance allowance, we have increased the basic level of parental insurance and many other things. At the same time, however, we have seen that the general part of child and family policy has been neglected. Child benefit has not been increased for ten years and is equivalent to SEK 4,400 behind what it has done if it had had the same development as the decade before. It is high time to raise the child allowance for ordinary people. That space now exists when budget deficits have been turned into surpluses, and I am proud to be able to vote in favour of this vote.
i-ba85b049978249cc-396	Madam President, I would like Parental insurance is an important instrument for ensuring equal parenthood and ultimately an equal society, as well as for giving children greater access to both their parents. However, as our society changes, parental insurance must also be changed to reflect society. The government has therefore set up an investigation to modernise parental insurance in order to adapt it to today's labour market. The report will be presented next week, I think it is, and we look forward to hearing its proposals. Part of the investigation's mission is to provide suggestions on how parental insurance can be designed so that it works well regardless of family constellation. We in the Green Party think this is very welcome, because every human being should have the right and the opportunity to define his family. Today, more and more children are growing up in family constellations that look different from the nuclear family with their mother, father and children, and parental insurance needs to be better able to meet the needs of these children and families. The investigation also has the task, which we think is good, of investigating whether the rules on maternity benefit are sufficiently adapted to today's working life and whether they provide adequate protection for women who have reduced working capacity at the end of pregnancy. It is important that the opportunity for students and self-employed people to use parental insurance is strengthened through improved conditions. It is therefore gratifying that, as a first step, the Government proposes to introduce enhanced protection of students' sickness benefit-based income in 2018. An important aim of economic family policy is to create the conditions for a level playing field for all children and, not least, to improve the situation of families with low economic standards. Many families with children are in a vulnerable situation, not least single parent households with several children. Child benefit for most families with children is an important addition to the economy, for many an absolutely necessary one. An accurate way to improve the financial situation of all families with children is therefore to increase child benefit. Therefore, we are also very pleased to be able to propose a budget that includes an increase in child benefit for the first time since 2006. It is also a step towards reducing the economic differences between households with children and households without children. General allowances, such as child benefit, are important because they have a relatively low administrative cost. Furthermore, research shows that general contributions to everyone increase the legitimacy and confidence of the system. Of course, needs-driven contributions are also important for those most in need. It is therefore a good thing that the government is proposing that maintenance allowance be increased for children aged 15 and over. Maintenance support contributes to an improved financial standard for divorced parents, and the costs for older children are significantly higher than for younger children. It is also gratifying that the Government intends to return in 2018 with proposals to further increase maintenance support for children between 11 and 14 years of age as well as for children aged 15 and over. As regards the responsibility of Försäkringskassan for informing orphan parents about maintenance regulation, several measures have been taken to provide information on maintenance. We have previously discussed in this House the need for more information. The Social Insurance Agency needs to continue to develop its work and ensure that even parents who cannot agree on maintenance receive the support they need. The need-tested support, such as housing allowance and maintenance support, is of great importance for households with low economic standards. However, these aids are not very well adapted to each other or coordinated. Support therefore needs to take greater account of the fact that children today are more likely to live alternately with their parents. It is therefore also gratifying that the Government proposes a new special allowance within the housing allowance for children who live alternately to replace the current maintenance allowance. This is a good proposal that will support financially vulnerable families. It is also good that the income limit should be increased and that the housing allowance should be increased. You can see that the government's proposals are very good. One might really think that the government has presented progressive budgets – and this has happened even now – that strengthen family policy. In conclusion, I can conclude that the government has taken child and family policy very seriously throughout its term of office and has already delivered a number of reforms. More is waiting for the rest of the term of office. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-Y9ntMEzzPSCNf1Wu8eQAHo	Madam President, I would like I would like to support the proposal in the Finance Committee's report 28 on capital injections to Postnord AB. It is now almost a decade since Minister of Economic Affairs Maud Olofsson presented a merger between the Swedish Post Office and Post Danmark on behalf of the Alliance Government. It was an affair that we Social Democrats opposed and reserved ourselves against. We were critical on several points. The Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party stated in our reservation against the merger that there was no proper analysis and evidence and that the issue was insufficiently prepared by the government. We also said the following: from a purely commercial point of view, we also believe that the merger should be rejected. The turnover of the item represents just over 70 per cent of the combined company's turnover, but the Swedish State receives only 60 per cent of the share value and less than half of the voting value. Furthermore, we said three opposition parties: this must be described as a bad deal and cannot be explained away on the grounds that it is a negotiation. In that case, the conclusion is that the government is a bad negotiator. We were not alone in the criticism. Nutek, for example, said that it seemed to be a bad business for the Swedish state. In retrospect, everyone must note that this was a really bad deal. Sweden owns 60 per cent of the company but still has only 50 per cent of the votes. The Board consists of four persons from each owner, but the Chairman has no casting vote. Since the merger, the Danish business has gone with almost SEK 2 billion in loss and the Swedish business more than 6 billion plus. In addition, Danish operations had significant commitments to employees in Denmark, so-called special conditions, which confer a right to three years' notice period without obligation to work. The shareholder agreement concluded by Maud Olofsson and the alliance government in 2009 means that the Swedish State as owner takes a greater risk than the Danish State but does not have a greater influence. Instead of putting all the effort into safeguarding the stable development of postal services throughout our country, the company has had to cope with dramatic developments in Danish operations during these years after the merger. The Danish Government has speeded up digitalisation, which has brought dramatic changes to postal operations in Denmark, and Postnord has had difficulty adapting to this, not least because of the special conditions that some of the staff had brought into the joint venture. The situation is now such that Postnord needs contributions from its owners, and after a thorough analysis it is proposed to be 2.2 billion. As the owner of 60 percent of the company, our share of that amount could have been 1.8 billion. But as Tobias Wikströ m wrote at the lead position in Dagens i ndustri: The current Minister for Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg, the Social Democrats, has handled the negotiations skilfully, and Sweden only has to pay SEK 400 million, despite the fact that the Swedish state owns 60 percent. So we are going in with about 18% of the capital injection that is being made, even though we own 60%. It is really good negotiated, given the lousy negotiating cards that Maud Olofsson and the Alliance handed over. One could perhaps expect that the alliance parties, or at least Maud Olofsson's own party, somehow showed that they have learned something from this lousy affair. But self-criticism shines with its absence. On the contrary, the special opinion seeks to dissipate and place the whole responsibility for the situation that Postnord has ended up in on the government that is now cleaning up after the shortcomings of the Alliance. It is not very beautiful and far from responsible, especially given that more bad business took place under the previous alliance government – Nuon, to name another example. Madam President, I would like Let's get back to the case itself. Given the development in Denmark, the Board of Postnord decided at the beginning of the year to start the introduction of a new production model in Denmark. To finance this transformation, the company asked the owners for financial support at the beginning of the year. The Swedish State in the form of the Government then engaged legal and financial advisors and carried out a thorough analysis of the plan, capital requirements and the new production model. The government also reviewed the shareholder agreement. During the negotiations, the government has constantly stated that Denmark must take a major responsibility for the situation that has arisen, and the government has also been in constant contact with the opposition on this issue and has repeatedly provided information in the Committee on Economic Affairs. The negotiations have taken a long time and have been tough due to the construction of the shareholder agreement. But Sweden has been given the opportunity to ensure that Denmark will take responsibility for the costs related to historical agreements between the Danish state and postal workers, the so-called special conditions. The Government also agrees with the Danish Government to review the governance model for the company in order to ensure its effectiveness and effectiveness. The shareholder agreement concluded in 2009 was not good either for the owners or for the company. Furthermore, the fact that it was not good for customers should now be recognised by the Alliance's representatives. It is as I said in Denmark that the situation has been most acute, but this situation has of course affected the entire company and therefore also the Swedish business. Even with this capital injection, Postnord faces major challenges. Postnord must improve significantly in order to win back the confidence of the Swedish people. You should be able to trust the mail, no matter where you live. The new Postal Regulation, which will enter into force at the end of the year, will enable Postnord to improve its quality and efficiency. And it's really needed. Digitalisation and the growth of e-commerce are important and positive for Sweden as a whole, and postal activities must adapt to this new reality. The government not only welcomes but also drives digitalisation, not least with Swedish authorities, and also works in several ways to promote e-commerce. Madam President, I would like With the company now having a long-term financing solution, the conditions are better for the company to focus on the extremely important quality issue. Quality is and will be the company's focus in the future. It is a hard job forward that both the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Government will follow closely, because when the post does not work it can have devastating consequences for the business community and for individuals who can end up with the bailiff and get payment notes because bills do not arrive on time. The post office must function; it is a fundamental prerequisite of our welfare society. Postnord must now work hard to enable Sweden's citizens to feel confidence in the company again. To conclude, I would like to thank all the parties for recognising the seriousness of the moment and in broad agreement being prepared to give this capital injection to Postnord.
i-ba85b049978249cc-429	Madam President, I would like Postnord has struggled with several problems for a long time. It is a lack of quality, declining profitability and falling letter volumes, not least in the Danish part of the business. Digitalisation has meant a major change for the company. While efforts have been made to implement a number of changes along these lines, it has not been able to keep up with how digitalisation has changed postal operations. During the first half of 2017, the volume of letters decreased by approximately 20 per cent in Denmark and 7 per cent in Sweden. The company has been able to see that much greater changes must be made to postal operations in the future, not least in Denmark with a new production model. Coping with the changeover requires new capital from the owners. This amounts to billions in total in terms of loans and tax money, which must continue to be incorporated into this. For the Alliance, it is important to be clear: we say yes to an ownership addition today, but it should be a one-off event. In this way we take responsibility for Postnord and for a functioning postal business in Sweden. But that does not mean that we are fully satisfied with the government's handling of the issue in recent years. The change in the post office has been known for several years; yet the government has acted passively. When the Riksdag is now responding to the Government's proposal to spend money, we believe that it is reasonable for the Government to continuously inform the Riksdag and the Committee on Economic Affairs about the development of the company. What are the measures taken in the company? What does the owner do in this context to ensure in various ways that we do not end up in a situation like this again with another shareholder addition? There is also the question of digitalisation, Madam President. That is something that should be taken into account in particular. It has come much further in the postal business in Denmark than in the one in Sweden. I would say that we should urgently welcome further development and learn more from Danish development. It benefits citizens, Swedish companies and public administration to continue to change and seize the opportunities of digitalisation. But in the long run it has an impact on Postnord and its activities. We believe that the government should report back to the Riksdag and the Committee on Economic Affairs as soon as possible what is being done as an owner to ensure that the serious quality problems in Postnord's operations are addressed in different ways. This is nothing new; it has been going on since autumn 2016 with reports of serious problems and complaints – mail handled recklessly and mail that has not arrived, which has had an impact on both individuals and companies. Last week there were problems with the management of e-commerce before the Swedish Christmas. Of course, this isn't okay. We note that the number of complaints received from both individuals and companies has increased and that, in line with this, the quality of Swedish postal services has decreased over time. This is confirmed by the investigation carried out by the European Commission's postal services, which is serious. That the mail works well is an important and basic public service. When it doesn't work, they can have devastating consequences for both individuals and businesses. We assume that the government will assume its ownership and make clearer demands on the company in order to improve the quality of postal operations, but we support the ownership increase.
i-ba85b049978249cc-437	Madam President, I would like We do not have different views on how Postnord works today. It doesn't work well enough. I think we are all upset and worried about what will happen when trade increases for Christmas. Will the packages arrive on time, and – perhaps even more serious – all residents of Sweden receive their bills so that they do not end up with the bailiff? On this we are in complete agreement – it is not working satisfactorily today. However, what I called for in my speech was some form of self-criticism from the point of view of this bad affair. I listened carefully, but I didn't hear any such self-criticism from Lars Helmered. Therefore, I must take this opportunity to ask Lars Helmered and the Moderates: What review of your policy have you done? Do you still think this was a good deal, given the development of the Swedish postal business?
i-ba85b049978249cc-440	Madam President, I would like I was not a politician in the Committee on Economic Affairs when it went on and did not take an active part in the merger between the Swedish and Danish posts. I have no reason to question the intention when the issue came from the company in question and from the trade unions and when it was described as economies of scale being the solution for a modern logistics company. But quite rightly, I think it is possible to be self-critical afterwards and see that this affair did not fall out in a desirable way. It fell out in the same way as Åsa Westlund and her colleagues shopped German, Danish and Polish coal power through Vattenfall a decade ago. It may have been right at the time, but afterwards it has turned out that it was not right and reasonable for the taxpayer. I think that there are always reasonable reasons to consider the role of the various state-owned companies. What is their mission, and how are they managed wisely? It was tightened up during the years of the alliance, and I can see that it has continued under this government. As far as the post office is concerned, Madam President, one must make an ownership contribution now, based on the fact that the post office will exist and work in Sweden and that both households and businesses will be able to count on it. But that's the little question. I would say that the major challenges in the long term are at least two. One challenge is the quality problems, which are absolutely devastating. People say, "Can I trust the mail to even arrive?" Both the owners' representatives and the company must get into the collar. The second and greater challenge is about digitalisation. The discussion about the post is about that it is a problem to change. Rather, I would say that we need an extended agenda for the digitisation of the public sector in Sweden and also for companies and individuals. Take advantage of the possibilities of digitalisation with all the positive that it entails! The postal challenge we have to deal with over time. But that's where more of the discussion needs to be.
i-ba85b049978249cc-446	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Helmered! Nevertheless, I heard some self-criticism in your speech, and I think it is welcome for taxpayers and citizens to hear that there are bad deals made by the previous alliance government. Nevertheless, I cannot help but think that it is a little strange to talk about Vattenfall and fail to mention the biggest and worst scandal, namely the purchase of Nuon. How many billions has that deal cost the taxpayer now... is it 44 billion? Also there you can be a little self-critical. You, Lars Helmered, are now on the Enterprise Committee. I think that a reasonable answer to the Swedish voters for the 2018 elections would be that the Moderates or the Alliance have made a deal with the sales policy. After all, the Postnord deal was intended to put the company on the stock exchange, and you have done many similar bad deals. Apoteket is one example– you sold out four companies for 5.9 billion, and a few years later only one of these companies was worth as much. The Moderates in the Stockholm County Council, in which I live, have cleared out assets. The health centre Serafen was sold for 700 000 SEK. Shortly thereafter it was sold for 20 million. Your current party leader was involved in selling out large parts of Stockholm's operations. You sold out for 3.4 million, and then they sold on for 81.7 million. Have you made a deal with that policy, or are you going to continue selling out our joint operations at a lower price in this way? Are you going to be more careful with the taxpayers' money? In fact, that is what this is all about. We want a well-functioning postal business in Sweden, but we also want care with taxpayers' money in the future.
i-ba85b049978249cc-451	Madam President, I would like A few years ago we had a discussion about whether the Swedish state would own a liquor factory. Åsa Westlund and her fellow party members thought that this was a core task for politics and society. I think a core task is to ensure that the police come if there is a crime and make sure that the school and the care work. It's possible we're gonna split up a little bit there. I believe that on both sides we have to engage in self-criticism and think about different business that has been, so that this can be handled wisely. I also believe that what individual households and companies expect is that postal services function as a basic public service. In this respect, we note that developments have gone in the wrong direction in recent years. The quality of the mail has fallen. People put a letter or package on the box and expect it to work, and it hasn't. Unfortunately, I also think that the government has handled this right choice-handedly and badly, to be honest. They have spoken but not clearly acted to make demands on the company in a reasonable way. I have much higher expectations of the government as owner representative of Postnord to take a firm stand on this. Based on the decision we are about to make today, we must also report back to the Riksdag on an ongoing basis. Beyond this, I hope that we can have a broader discussion on digitalisation. It is an incredible opportunity for public administration to streamline and develop. It is about health care letters, and it is about the contact for me as a parent when it comes to my children's education. It's about corporate communication with authorities or customers. We are only at the beginning of this, and I would like to say as a matter of urgency that political responsibility is about developing this much more in different ways. It will, of course, impose demands on postal services, but I think that discussion will be more useful over time in order to seize these opportunities and not get caught up in possible historical events a bit back in time.
i-ba85b049978249cc-455	Madam President, I would like I would like to start the debate by saying that we Moderates are not taking part in the decision on appropriations because our draft budgetary framework has fallen. That is why I refer instead to our particular opinion. Madam President, I would like Area of expenditure 20 General environmental and nature protection is a broad area of expenditure, but I intend to devote the bulk of my speech to talking about the biggest issue that fits here – climate policy. Without a policy that reduces CO2 and greenhouse gas emissions, there is little or no opportunity to talk about other environmental issues. Increased climate emissions cause the oceans to warm up and become unbalanced. Increased climate emissions lead to extreme weather that endangers people. Increased climate emissions will make agriculture impossible on our planet in the long term. The climate challenge is therefore central. Madam President, I would like A modern climate policy rests mainly on three legs. Firstly, we know that the climate challenge is global. To just look at our little piece of cake up here in the N words is therefore quite flawed. We need to see to our whole big world that fits on our little planet. International cooperation and international action are therefore a foundation of climate policy. It is often more cost-effective for Sweden to finance emission reductions in other countries than for us to do so at home. It's not just cheap, it's also right. In addition to this work, it is clear that Sweden needs to continue its efforts to reduce emissions, mainly from domestic transport and heavy industry. Here Sweden and the Moderates have great ambitions. Secondly, we know that politics is a blunt tool. Politics cannot and will not interfere and try to solve all the problems, but with the right policies we can benefit entrepreneurs and companies who want to develop new technologies and then take it to broad markets. With free and healthy competition and market economy solutions, Sweden can export climate innovations and at the same time take advantage of the sharpest ideas from other countries. Thirdly, climate policy is really like other policies. It is not that the party that can write the largest number on the bottom line wins. Reforms in all areas, including this, must be financed responsibly, put against other efforts and contribute to the greatest possible benefit. If we are to build credibility for Sweden's climate policy in the long term, we need to climate-max out every penny of tax we spend. Madam President, I would like In the light of what I have just described, it is difficult to understand the budget proposed by the government. In the budget submitted by the Red-Green Government together with the Left Party, there are no aggregate estimates of the total emissions reductions expected. So, in a way, if you don't know what the policy is expected to achieve, how do you know if you're doing enough? And how do you know you're doing the right things? Another problem is the measures where there are actual calculations, because it becomes clear that the climate policy pursued is ineffective. Climate change, one of the government's major projects, has an estimated cost d of approximately SEK 400 per tonne of emission reduction. This can be compared with international projects, CDM, which have been in the Swedish Energy Agency's portfolio, where the cost is approximately SEK 60 per tonne reduction. It should be said that the comparison is not entirely fair because the calculation methods of additionality differ, but it is in itself a problem. That is why it is perhaps a good thing that the government's environmental budget is the biggest ever, as it is written on its posters, because if it were not, but at the same time it contained equally inefficient policies, it might not have been possible to measure emissions reductions. Here it becomes clear that the government is investing more in frating its own figures than in the actual results for the climate. It is sad because it is urgent to reduce emissions if we are to have a chance to achieve the Paris Agreement's objective of limiting the temperature increase to two degrees, with a view to one and a half degrees. Madam President, I would like However, I will not just talk about government policy. That it's hideously ineffective, we know in the Moderates. We know that in the Alliance, and so does the Institute of Economics, which evaluates it. Soon we will also have a climate policy council in place, and I find it difficult to see how this advice can come to some other conclusion. Instead, let me tell you about the priorities of my party, the Moderates, in the draft budget for Category 20! First, the Moderates believe in man's inherent ability to find new ways to solve even complex problems. It is no different when we seek solutions to the climate challenge – research, knowledge and development should be a priority. Here Sweden can make a big difference. Therefore, the Moderates increase the funding for jus t environmental research by over 120 percent compared to the government's budget. Secondly, we Moderates, like the United Nations in the UNEP climate programme, believe that measures to achieve a balance in the seas are extremely important in addition to an offensive climate policy. The oceans play a central role in fishing, transport, tourism and recreation. Therefore, work on a coherent and effective maritime and water policy – the one that the Alliance started – must continue. It's about eutrophication, marine debris, acidification and pollution. That is why we are allocating 95 million more than the government to measures for the marine and aquatic environment. Thirdly, it is important that we look for the most useful measures if we really want to reduce emissions globally. Several reports indicate that the most cost-effective tools in climate policy are international clean development mechanisms, CDM. These measures have previously been documented as having a good impact in several areas, such as climate impact, air quality and health, as well as technology transfer and development. Therefore, we will increase the grant by half a billion SEK – 500 million SEK – for the year 2018. Our budget for these efforts is therefore more than triple that proposed by the government. That's really bringing the policy up to speed. Madam President, I would like In addition to what I have already mentioned, we have allocated funds to a national bioeconomy strategy to investigate how green industries can create even greater climate and environmental benefits. We are also fully funding the development of a zero vision for climate emissions in the heavy base industry, a so-called CCS strategy. Overall, our budget is smaller than the government's, but it is pinpointed to measures that provide great benefits in their respective areas – both nationally and internationally. Add to that what I said at the beginning of my speech, that it is no longer the policy that leads the green transition. It is not politicians who develop new and cheaper solar cells. It is not the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that has caused Elon Elon to turn the petrol car market upside down. It is companies in a free market with healthy competition that create solutions to our contemporary challenges. Looking at enterprise policy, it is clear that the government has missed this insight when it has implemented wide tax increases of over 40 billion since the 2014 elections. Therefore, it is perhaps not surprising that you have more money in your budget to spend on confiscating forests and subsidising Stockholmers' new bikes.
i-ba85b049978249cc-470	Madam President, I would like We are debating Category 20 today, and I would like to begin by calling for the Swedish Democrats' reservation in this report to be approved. The environment is a priority area for the Swedish Democrats. This applies to the environment everywhere, here in Sweden and globally, and it concerns rainforests, the world's species and the ability to breathe fresh air wherever you are. But when it comes to Sweden's budget, it is primarily the environment here in Sweden that we can influence. This is not because we do not care about the outside world, but because it is here in Sweden that we can influence and do the most good with our efforts. It is primarily the environment here in Sweden that we can influence within the framework of the state budget. Madam President, I would like In these debates, a lot of money is spent. It usually sounds about the same every time. If you invest more money, you care more about the environment, and the others who do not want to spend as much money want to damage the environment. It is an easy-to-understand communication, but at the same time it is a very low level of debate. For it is not green-socialist money that is being invested when this spending area swells, but it is Swedish taxpayers' money that is being used. Every invested tax chandelier should be used where it is most useful, which could certainly be decided more often than today by the individual citizen rather than by green socialist politicians. That, as the government and the Left Party do, oblige taxpayers to sponsor e-bike purchases, are typical examples of the government's waste for no benefit in the environmental field. We have a functioning market that is growing explosively. There is no point in going in and subsidising these bicycles. Other examples of direct counterproductive measures are also those in the field of transport, where this and previous governments have offered reduced tax or completely abolished tax on mostly imported biofuels. The winner has been foreign producers and companies, and it has looked better in the Swedish statistics when you can see that CO2 emissions from the transport sector here in Sweden are decreasing a little. But what good does this really do? What emissions are in that Swedish column does not matter for climate policy at global level. When the fuels consumed in Sweden are made up of crop-based biofuels and other palm oil-based fuels at the forefront, we instead have a situation where we contribute to increased net emissions at global level precisely because of the indirect soil effects. While we have probably achieved increased emissions at global level, we have spent several tens of billions on this policy. It is not wise, and it does not benefit the work of combating global warming. Madam President, I would like When it comes to climate policy, we need to have a greater focus on the core. Climate policy is global. Every climate policy measure must be weighed on the basis of where it is most useful. To then focus so much on Sweden's emissions in general and the transport sector's emissions in particular is not healthy. As the Financial Policy Council and the Institute of Economic Affairs have pointed out, sectoral targets are not desirable. We should have a goal, and that is to reduce emissions as effectively as possible at global level. It has set ambitious goals, but when it comes to it, it is the best word. Almost 80 per cent of all energy is still fossil, and the growth of fossil-free initiatives is very slow overall globally. Since the Paris Agreement, when insufficient and non-binding promises were made, nothing has happened in principle. When the last climate conference was held, perhaps one thing was agreed, and it was to meet again. Madam President, I would like We need a climate policy with a fundamental objective: to reduce emissions globally. Therefore, we are proposing reductions in ineffective and counterproductive projects here in Sweden. Instead, we invest more money in international measures and increased investment in research and development of the technology of the future. What is at issue here is the need to make the fossil-free competitive. The use of coal should simply not be profitable. It is only then that coal will be competed out. In doing so, engaging in public relations and marketing and highlighting an agreement between countries to stop consuming coal will be quite pointless when you look at the composition of the countries. That was one of the news that came from the last climate summit. The problem was that the countries that made this agreement have already almost completely stopped using coal precisely because they have found other alternatives that are competitive. Madam President, I would like For the Swedish Democrats, the idea of stewardship is fundamental. It is particularly important when it comes to our nature. For example, we have a large number of contaminated areas in our country. These are at least tens of thousands of areas. But the problem is that no one really knows how many we have or how badly polluted they are. What is known, however, is that it will take several decades to restore them and that it will cost tens of billions of dollars. It is an important piece of work, and the Swedish Democrats are therefore in favour of a further increase in this appropriation. However, it is not only a need for money, but for regulations to be improved so that our industry can build up its industries in a more environmentally efficient way without causing new polluted areas. Today, for example, there is a fear of buying existing land because it is not known whether it will be the new buyer who will have to pay for the future clean-up. So we need not just money here, but a review of the legislation. Madam President, I would like Plastics have become a dominant element in the debate. I checked yesterday that we have been talking about plastics in every debate in this area during this parliamentary term. There is talk of different types of plastics. Plastic bags get a lot of room in the debate. It is perhaps a little strange, because the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has found that littering with plastic bags is very small in Sweden and that virtually all plastic bags are recycled, mostly through energy recovery. We therefore do not have the same problems with these plastics in Sweden as they do in many other countries. But then there is the question of microplastics. There has been much greater concern. A variety of products release microplastics into our waters. It is about everything from clothes that we wash to cosmetic products. This can be serious. That is why we, the Swedish Democrats, want to see an increase in funding in this area. The problem is that we don't really know how worried we should be. It has recently been noted that we cannot rely on all research in this area either. A research that I have used in this House before comes from Uppsala University and is about fish that consume these microplastics and what happens to them. The scientific article on this has had to be withdrawn. At the same time, research has come to show that plastics in the Baltic Sea have not increased in recent decades. It is therefore important to continue to give priority to this issue, precisely because we have to get to the bottom of this in order to find out whether this is an issue for which we should be so worried. This is in line with the principle of stewardship and the precautionary principle that must always characterise us in the environmental field.
i-ba85b049978249cc-482	Madam President, I would like I thank Martin Kinnunen for this speech. I would like to start by saying that I agree with him when he points to the need to phase out coal in the world. Of course, it is a great challenge, and I can feel great dissipation when I read news about coal right now. The other day news came from Newsweek explaining that the first electric freighter in China is used to shovel coal up and down the river, which in a way is ironic. However, there are many other things in Martin Kinnunen's speech that make me think about climate policy in particular. When we had a debate last year on a topical subject, namely climate change, Martin Kinnunen stood here and said that it is mostly about weather. However, in the speech Martin Kinnunen now gave on Category 20, he mentions the climate a whole four times, if I have counted correctly – a few times to say that it may not be as prioritised as in the government's efforts, but still four times. Nevertheless, I must ask Martin Kinnunen whether the Swedish Democrats have now realised that man is influencing the climate through his increased emissions and whether climate policy might become a priority area for the next elections.
i-ba85b049978249cc-485	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson! I think the honourable Member will have to listen again to that debate. The problem in the debate on climate issues is that the tone is very high. Emotional arguments come forward, and there is often talk of short-term weather phenomena. There will be different kinds of doomsday prophecies that come up in the debate, and actually we talk in plain language about weather. I do not think we should talk about weather when talking about climate policy; it is a much more serious issue than that. Climate is weather for a very long period of time, at least three or four decades. Some researchers instead want to focus on maybe 100 – 150 years because it is such a tricky and complicated subject – especially to try to predict what is going to happen. But from the Swedish Democrats we have always been clear. In all the climate movements that we have presented this term of office, we refer to the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences' research and what they have come up with in their review of IPCC's reports. There is global warming. Carbon dioxide affects – of course. We do not question the research in any way. On the other hand, we are questioning the policy pursued and its effectiveness. Jesper Skalberg Karlsson puts forward many good arguments in terms of how to target climate policy. The problem is that the Moderates have not stood up for this. You don't let the market run its course, you go in and control the energy, for example. We have electricity certification systems, where a socialist energy policy provides an oversupply of energy, which means that no one makes money. There can be no new investments.
i-ba85b049978249cc-489	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Martin Kinnunen, for your answer! Politics is sometimes about compromise, and I am pleased that we have been able to conclude an energy agreement in the Swedish parliament. If the Moderates had not been involved in that negotiation, we might not have seen the offensive wordings that exist regarding nuclear energy, for example, which I know Martin Kinnunen and IPCC think is a good way to produce almost carbon neutral energy. When it comes to weather, there are reasons to look at more than just two data points. The average surface temperature on earth right now is the highest in two millenniums; then we look at far more than just a few decades. The average temperature has increased by more than half a degree since 1950. Atmospheric carbon dioxide has since 1950 gone from less than 330 ppm, part per million, to being somewhere around 400 ppm today. This cannot be explained, for example, by increased solar radiation, but has to do with human influence. I therefore welcome the fact that the Swedish Democrats will now invest more in environmental and climate policy. I know that the Swedish Democrats refer to themselves as conservatives, but I would not say that conservative means simply saying stop and evidence, now we stop. To be conservative is to be the defender of tried and tested ideas. This includes evaluating, reconsidering and proposing new policies. I believe that climate and environmental policy in Sweden would be very beneficial.
i-ba85b049978249cc-492	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats will continue to give priority to environmental and climate issues, just as we have done this entire term of office. The problem is that the Moderates have many fine words, but you let the Center Party control politics. We have the sectoral targets, which are called into question by the Institute of Economic Affairs and the Council of Finance Policy. It is not effective to target small sectors, but we should have an overall objective. For example, it can be much more expensive to reduce emissions for domestic transport in Sweden than it is to reduce emissions in another sector in another country or continent. Why should we have the sectoral targets when scientists agree that they are ineffective? These are things that do not make sense when Jesper Skalberg Karlsson talks about efficiency and international action at the same time. After all, most of the money goes to ineffective politics in Sweden. From the Swedish Democrats' side, we are clear that we are going to work to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We will do it at a global level and as cost-effectively as possible. We will continue to point this out in the same high tone as throughout this parliamentary term.
i-ba85b049978249cc-496	Madam President, I would like The world and Sweden are facing major environmental challenges. Climate change, non-toxic everyday life, clean water and the sea and the sustainable use of our natural resources are key components for human health, healthy ecosystems and sustainable economic development and growth. Sweden has unique opportunities to be both a leader and a winner in the global transition. With natural resources such as forests and arable land, an economy based on renewables can give Sweden continued growth and development. Sweden has many small and large companies at the forefront of developing new environmental technologies and finding new business models in the circular economy. A dynamic and job-creating economy is also the only way for Sweden to set a credible example for other countries. However, in order for Sweden to exploit the potential, a policy that promotes innovation and entrepreneurship is required. For the Center Party, green tax exchange is a central part of both environmental policy and economic policy. Higher taxes on environmental impact are matched with tax cuts on jobs, entrepreneurship and investment. This provides better conditions for Swedish companies to contribute to the Swedish economy and employment, while reducing emissions and environmental impacts when the polluter pays the emission cost. The shift in environmental taxes towards reduced labour taxes also reduces the high costs of hiring and working. The Centre Party has presented in several budgets a number of proposals for a reinforced green tax exchange and does so in this budget as well. But to meet the challenges, every crown needs to be used correctly. Efficiency and results for the environment are the most important. Instead of the government's policy of promise, which reinforces imbalances and risks of overheating and reduces structural savings, rather than using good times to create a sustainable basis for long-term growth, we want to take responsibility and lead Sweden on a path towards sustainable growth with measures that deliver real environmental results. Unfortunately, in the Government's 2018 budget, we see several examples of symbolic politics that at best do little good but then at a very high cost. It's about a flight tax without environmental control. It is about climate change that often goes to investments that would still have happened and about an e-bike premium that will stimulate a market that is already growing and working well without support. Madam President, I would like For decades, the Center Party has been driving an ambitious energy and climate policy and has participated in all the broad energy and climate agreements concluded in modern times. We are proud that we have contributed to Sweden's exceeding EU targets for renewable fuels in the transport sector and that the share of renewable energy today is over 50%. No country in the EU has been so successful in changing its energy supply as Sweden. But we can't sit back and be happy. Today, exactly two years ago, the Paris Agreement was concluded, which aims to limit temperature increases to a maximum of 2 degrees, and preferably 1.5 degrees. The situation is serious. In 2016, a record warm autumn was recorded in the Arctic, which may be the first sign of permanent destabilisation of the Arctic climate. In other parts of the world too, major problems arise in the wake of climate change: famines caused by prolonged droughts, people forced to leave their homes due to sea-level rises and extreme rainfall with costly consequences in the urban environment. It's serious now. To meet the climate challenge and achieve the goal of a Sweden without net greenhouse gas emissions in 2045, a policy is required that promotes renewable energy, reduces emissions from transport and makes Sweden a leading force in the EU and in the global climate work. Emissions from domestic transport account for one third of Sweden's total emissions. Breaking the fossil dependency of the transport sector will require climate-efficient instruments in which we pursue emissions and not transport. This will require interaction between several different instruments, technology development, increased electrification and changing behaviour patterns. The Center Party proposed early on a system of environmental bonuses and charges on cars. We continue to do so in our 2018 budget through a green car bonus of at most 100,000 for a climate-smart car. We want to expand the infrastructure to enable charging and electrification of the transport sector. In our budget, we also propose an environmental truck premium to accelerate technology development and create a strong Swedish market for environmental trucks. We strongly believe in the bio-based economy and see biofuels as a very important component in the transformation of the transport sector. We invest a total of half a billion in measures to strengthen the transition and work towards a bio-based economy. That is why we are very concerned about the processes that are going on at European level, which are in danger of putting away the bones of the green transformation in Sweden. We assume that the government will act to ensure that the conditions for Swedish biofuels will continue to be good. Madam President, I would like For the Center Party, work for a non-toxic everyday life for a long time has been a priority. Financial incentives such as producer responsibility and chemicals tax should be used to accelerate the transition to more sustainable alternatives. At the same time, we see that there is a great number of darkness when it comes to dangerous and prohibited substances in our everyday lives. In random checks carried out by the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate in 2016, prohibited chemicals were found in 38 per cent of the low-priced electrical products. The goods analysed included headphones, bicycle lights and USB connectors. There is therefore a major problem with substances which are currently banned from use in the EU but which are present in imported goods. In June 2017, it was found that there have been 60 percent more packages from China than in the previous year. So there is a huge increase in this area, and we have to work on it. The Center Party therefore wants to see a major effort from the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate, customs and municipalities to find these products, remove the rogue importers and help shops to make demands on non-toxic products. A prerequisite for effective work against hazardous chemicals is a comprehensive and up-to-date situational picture. That is why we are also investing money in the mapping of toxins in people's everyday lives. Madam President, I would like Water is an issue that has become increasingly topical in recent years. The Center Party also sees that water, which is our most important food and the basis for a functioning ecosystem, is an area in which policy must change. In the Center Party's budget, we therefore further strengthen water work through a so-called blue billion. We want to strengthen local work and international efforts to save seas and watercourses from eutrophication and pollution and to ensure clean drinking water. The Baltic Sea is one of the most sensitive seas in the world. Eutrophication and environmental toxins upset the Baltic Sea ecosystem, with algal blooms and very large areas with dead seabeds as a result. In order to reverse the trend, the Center Party proposes a number of measures to stop eutrophication and bottom death. It is about supporting local projects to reduce the supply of nutrients but also about investing more in regional Baltic Sea cooperation and working long-term and supporting research and development of projects that can overcome the bottom death. We must also reduce the presence of dangerous substances in our watercourses. Increasing knowledge of the impact of chemicals and pharmaceuticals on water quality and on water ecosystems places new demands on wastewater treatment plants. Today, however, technology is lacking in many plants. There is a need for both greater awareness of the means used and how they are managed, so that they do not end up in the drain, and new technologies for cleaning up what is still in the drain. The cycle work needs to be strengthened to reduce the presence of hazardous chemicals, microplastics and marine debris in our water areas. Of the total quantity of littering objects in the oceans, the majority is made up of plastic. Marine littering is a global challenge, but it is also a problem in Sweden. Therefore, the Center Party wants to strengthen efforts to reduce the presence of plastics in our seas and ensure good waste management along our coasts. Access to clean drinking water has long been a matter of course in Sweden. In recent years, however, several parts of the country have suffered from water scarcity during the summer. Changing flows and changes in precipitation in the tracks of climate change and over-exploitation of, and underinvestment in, water infrastructure contribute to an increasing water shortage. In order to protect access to drinking water, the Center Party proposes additional funds for SGUs as well as funds for local spending on drinking water and to ensure preparedness for emergency situations. Madam President, I would like Since Parliament has given budgetary policy a completely different direction from that of the Center Party, we will refrain from taking part in the decision on the distribution of appropriations.
i-ba85b049978249cc-526	Madam President, I would like Today this applies to Category 20 General Protection of the Environment and Nature. It feels like we are continuing the discussion we had last week, when we were discussing Category 23 on agricultural activities. Madam President, I would like Liberals are responsible for a green policy based on market economy, technology and development. As has been said here before, debates on environmental and nature conservation and climate policy tend to focus only – or at least to a very large extent – on the amount of funding and not on the priorities that can be made in order to achieve the greatest possible environmental and climate benefits. That is not to say that there is no need for government intervention and effective economic instruments – both of these elements are of course very important. However, we in the Liberals have a different approach to the government, and we have a clear strategy. However, as the Liberals' proposals for the financial framework have fallen, we are abstaining from taking part in the decision later today and are instead presenting our position in a separate opinion. I would like to reiterate that priorities call for the overall picture to be taken into account. We in the Liberals set a number of horizontal priorities in our draft budget. These priorities are to strengthen the school, to make it easier to hire, on entry jobs for newcomers and young people, on strengthening self-determination for older people and on strengthening personal assistance. Madam President, I would like In the area of expenditure that we are discussing today, namely Category 20 General Environment and Nature Protection, the Liberals give priority to action in three areas. It's about the climate, where we have a so-called climate billion, about the marine environment – that is, about the sea and water – where we spend a total of 1.6 billion and about valuable nature, with emphasis on the forest. In climate policy, it is particularly clear that many liberal responses to effective economic instruments are in the tax tables and not in the form of a unilateral focus on increased funding. Liberals' draft budget is characterised by a clear green tax shift – i.e. an increase in taxes on things that are detrimental to the environment and climate, according to the polluter pays principle – and a reduction in taxes on labour and entrepreneurship, which increases Sweden's competitiveness. Liberals propose in line with this higher environmental taxes – 5 billion higher than the government does. It is about increased benefit value for non-environmental cars – so-called reverse environmental car bonus, where we increase the tax on cars that are climate-disrupting – as well as a reformed travel deduction, the abolition of diesel subsidies and some others. The second balance is that the Liberals propose 19 billion lower taxes directly on labour. We are certainly not prepared to tax work and entrepreneurship so that growth and jobs, and hence our common welfare, are put at risk. Madam President, I would like The government spends a lot of money on funding for climate investments – this has been called Climate Change in many contexts. There is no question that we can look at this and see that many individual things can be seen as something positive, but we question the effectiveness of the initiative because it involves a lot of bureaucracy and a lot of costs in relation to the result. It's about a lot of small projects. However, as I mentioned earlier, we think it is reasonable for the public sector to be involved in financing certain things of a structural nature in some contexts. The Liberals therefore want to prioritise long-term major climate-smart projects, which we have collected in a grant of SEK 1 billion called National Climate Investments. We share the priorities mentioned here earlier. It is in transport, industry and agriculture that the major challenges lie. Under the heading are biogas plants and methane gas reduction in agriculture, urban cycle infrastructure, publicly available charging infrastructure, research and development to reduce industrial emissions and electrification of public transport in our cities through investment in electric city buses. Madam President, I would like Seas and water are also a priority area, and together we have put 1.6 billion in this area. Let me highlight some of the Liberal priorities in this context. We want enhanced environmental monitoring with a focus on the sea and water. We also see the problem of eutrophication. Here too, we have used economic instruments in the tax tables by proposing a new leakage tax to reduce this. So the leak tax is hitting commercial manure. We also bring up beach cleaning. It has rightly been linked to the plastic discussion, because the sea is filled with plastic. If the development is not broken, we have more plastic than fish in the oceans in 2050. On the Swedish west coast, a lot of plastic is washed ashore. Since the plastic is also at risk of being broken down into microplastics, we invest 50 million annually in order for the municipalities via the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management to be able to receive grants to clean Sweden's beaches. One point concerns beach erosion. It is more linked to adaptation to climate change than prevention of climate change. This problem is greatest in Skåne. It is important to start working on this issue. Madam President, I would like Our most valuable nature should of course be protected in national parks and nature reserves. Liberals attach great importance to nature conservation, and we spend about SEK 1 billion on protected nature. Here, not least, investments in key biotopes and old forests are central, and we share some of the government's proposals. Forests are a central part of the solution to climate change, and it is important that we take the environmental considerations necessary to preserve biodiversity. We have talked about research and development, and I think I mentioned last week that we see research and development of various logging methods as an important way forward in this work. It does not have to be as one-sided as it is many times today. We also believe that the system in which state-owned forest is used as an exchange for protected private forest should continue to be used. There are probably also great opportunities to develop this system. Liberals see a major challenge in developing new models for maintaining and restoring the values of the forest landscape. We should not fixate on the very methods we have today and simply increase the funding for the purchase of forests. There are other methods of cooperation that can certainly be found if we start thinking about it together. Madam President, I would like Finally, I will mention two more important liberal initiatives. In the area of land remediation, it is important that land is released, not least for residential construction. We are spending 25 million more than the government in this particular area, on the basis of risk assessment. In the field of chemicals, it would be strange if we thought that the tax was not a good instrument, so we are behind the chemicals tax and see that it can be developed. In this budget, we are investing a number of millions in strengthened market surveillance of dangerous chemicals, not least in toys.
i-ba85b049978249cc-553	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have been pushing for a green tax shift for a long time and have put forward a number of sharp proposals on this issue. We shall continue to do so in this year's budget. We want to reduce taxes on labour, entrepreneurship and pensions and increase taxes on environmentally harmful activities. With lower taxes on labour, we in Sweden get more hours worked, which gives more money to the welfare. However, instead of shifting taxes, the government chooses to increase taxes on both labour and environmentally damaging activities. Increased tax on environmentally harmful activities is a good thing, but a shift should also be made, which we do not do. Madam President, I would like The recurring algal blooms that affect the Baltic Sea in the summer are a clear sign that the Baltic Sea is not well. Nearly 30% of the seabed in the Baltic Sea suffers from severe oxygen deficiency, and 15% of the bottom is considered dead. The main cause of oxygen deficiency and dead bottoms is that the Baltic Sea suffers from eutrophication, leading to unnaturally strong algal blooms and dead bottoms. As part of the algal bloom, blue algae produce the neurotoxin BMAA, which has been found to cause neurological diseases such as ALS, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease, which is very serious. Algae produced near the sea surface sinks to the bottom and is broken down by bacteria and other microorganisms. During the process oxygen is consumed, leading to oxygen deficiency. The bots die, and the fish cannot reproduce. Particularly vulnerable is the cod, whose fry grows at great depths. Thus there is a direct link between eutrophication and the cod shortage in the Baltic Sea. Thanks to major efforts in wastewater treatment plants, phosphate-free detergents and better agricultural practices, phosphorus emissions have halved since the 1980s. Nevertheless, the environment in the Baltic Sea has deteriorated, not least in the last 20 years. Eutrophication is a self-propelled and self-intensifying process in which increased expansion of oxygen-free bottoms releases phosphorus that goes up to surface water and increases the production of algae, which increases oxygen consumption in deep water and the expansion of oxygen-free bottoms. Madam President, I would like This means that reducing nutrient emissions in the Baltic Sea is not enough. Active measures are also needed to reverse negative developments and allow the Baltic Sea's bottom environment to recover. Radical efforts are needed to save the health of the Baltic Sea. All countries around the Baltic Sea have reason to urgently agree on solutions that deal with the serious situation, and Sweden must take the initiative. The solution is to supply oxygen in significant quantities to the bottoms of selected areas and to reduce emissions. A successful pilot test with oxygenation was carried out in 2010–2011 in Byfjorden, Bohuslän. The phosphorus content in the bottom water decreased sharply while life returned to the dead bottoms of the fjord. The next step should be to carry out a large-scale effort in the Baltic Sea. We should be able to share the cost with our neighbours. As a start, Sweden should be able to allocate 100 million in 2018, 150 million in 2019 and 200 million in 2020. The attention to the current circumstances has become enormous in all coastal regions of the southern Baltic Sea, such as Gotland, Kalmar, Sölvesborg and the Blekinge coast, but also in other countries, such as northern Germany. Last week a large and well-attended water dialogue was held in Visby under the direction of the County Administrative Board and Region Gotland, where attention was paid to all aspects of water supply such as drinking water and problems with the fishing industry and algae blooming. The level of attention to this water dialogue reflects the circumstances throughout the southern Baltic Sea. With the right measures, algal blooms can decrease dramatically, the regrowing of bays can go back and the fish can return. At the same time, the health risks associated with the neurotoxin BMAA could be averted. So far the Baltic Sea, Madam President. The Christian Democrats' vision is that the Swedish vehicle fleet will be fossil independent by 2030. We propose continued support for investments in charging infrastructure for electric and hybrid cars. Today, the major obstacle is uncertainty about whether you will be able to charge your electric car. We allocate SEK 125 million per year during the period 2017 – 2020 to support the expansion of charging infrastructure. The government has chosen to raise and introduce 64 different taxes. Then, in its draft budget, the government has scattered extra everything in many areas of expenditure. This applies in particular to Category 20, which we are debating today. The basic idea of government policy seems to be to issue various subsidies to be approved by bureaucrats. Instead, the Christian Democrats want to shift the focus to general economic incentives, mainly in the form of a green tax shift. We say no to the government's load-home support. Being able to charge your electric car at home makes it much easier for the individual household. It is therefore likely that most households who choose to implement the measure would do so anyway, even without a public financial contribution. Installation of charging equipment also raises the value of the property, and one can question whether it is the task of the state to support individual households so specifically. Instead, the Christian Democrats are proposing broader support for households, mainly through tax cuts. This allows individual households and their members to prioritise themselves on the basis of their current situation, for example by investing in charging equipment, electric bicycles or solar panels. On the other hand, there is reason for the public to support investments in public charging equipment, as their use will benefit a large number of motorists who would not be able to set up this equipment individually. The Christian Democrats propose that SEK 125 million be allocated for this purpose in Category 22. Madam President, I would like The Government proposes the introduction of aid for electric bicycles of SEK 35 0 million annually. This seems to some extent like kicking in open doors because the e-bike industry is rapidly growing, with a doubling of sales over the last two years. This development, in turn, will generate large amounts of end-of-life lithium batteries, which are not yet in place for safe and environmentally sound recycling. Instead of spending 350 million on subsidizing electric bicycles, the Christian Democrats propose that this money be directed towards an investment in bicycle infrastructure, which would affect more people and, at the same time, improve public health for more people. This initiative can be found in Category 22 of the Christian Democrats' draft budget. And with those words, Madam President, I would like to say that I will be presenting a special opinion in favour of the Christian Democrats' draft budget.
i-ba85b049978249cc-573	Madam President, I would like I am delighted to be in this House, to be able to debate and to decide on a historically large climate and environmental budget – the one that we have at Parliament's table today. However, sometimes when we debate the environment and climate, I can feel that we may have to go back and think about courageous environmentalists who have taken important decisions long before us. What I am thinking about today is something that has been highlighted by IFAU, namely that environmental policy can improve children's chances of life. It is a question of when courageous environmentalists pushed the decision that we had to phase lead out of petrol. We knew that lead was dangerous, but we did not know about all the good, positive effects that an improved environmental policy would have on other areas. But we know that now, because what happened when lead was phased out of petrol? What happened to the kids' school results? What happened to the connection to crime? Well, school results improved, and crime decreased. The latter had a very strong connection, not least for guys. This is contained in the research report that I am holding. Sometimes it may be useful to remind us that when we go ahead, we do not always know about all the positive effects that an ambitious environmental and climate policy can have. Madam President, I would like Since I took office as chairman of the Environment and Agriculture Committee in 2010, I have had the privilege of visiting lots of activities around the country where people had a strong commitment to the environment and climate. For this reason too, I am very pleased to be able to deliver a historically strong environmental and climate budget. It is good for the environment and climate, for jobs, welfare and innovation, for us together and for our faith in the future. I have met a great many people who have a commitment to the environment and climate. It is companies that want to invest, innovations that need to be developed, municipalities that want to build sustainable and people who are passionate about an idea. In short, creativity, initiative and solution-oriented people. But often during my travels around the country, I have seen that there has been a lack of money and that investments have not been made. The picture I have received and the conclusion I have drawn from all these visits is that we in Sweden have been underinvesting in the environment and climate for far too long. When I think back, I can feel a sadness over all the power and will that has been wasted in Sweden for many years. I know, and I have also seen this, that where projects are successful and where projects have been completed, environmental benefits and jobs are created. There we come one step closer to achieving environmental objectives while strengthening welfare and giving people confidence in the future. This shows that we can accomplish things if we do it together. Isn't this the Swedish model? Isn't that how we've built society so far? So, Madam President, this is the very idea of the draft budget that we are now debating, this historic effort on our environment and climate: to say yes to initiative and creativity. We want to affirm our commitment to climate and the environment. We want to give people confidence in the future, because that is what happens when the money in the government's budget arrives. They speed up the construction of society, and the power and will are exploited. Environmental and climate investments provide jobs that provide well-being and confidence in the future. So my appeal here today for the future is: Don't beat this up! Sweden cannot go back to a policy where unfunded tax cuts always take precedence over investments in our environment, our community building and our belief in the future. When we study the budgets of the bourgeois parties – the alternatives to what we are debating here today – it is like putting a wet blanket of commitment, initiative and faith in the future. The reductions are enormous: Christian Democrats minus 33 per cent, Sweden Democrats minus 32 per cent, Moderates minus 30 per cent, Liberals minus 29 per cent and Centers minus 23 per cent. One environmental authority loses one in four employees, because that is what it is about here, if the bourgeois budgets were to go through. It's a matter of chaos for a long time. Everyone who has been in an organization with such large cuts as the one at issue here knows this, if the budgets of the bourgeois were to become a reality. If I compare with what happened in America last spring, I'm a little surprised. Donald Trump proposed a 31-percent cut in the U.S. environmental budget. It is therefore the same level as in the bourgeois budgets here today. The indication was very large in the United States when one understood the major consequences this would have. The newspapers published lists of all important measures and investments in the environment and climate that would disappear. It ended up with the Republican-dominated Congress not accepting the proposal. The consequences were simply too great. We have not really seen the same attention here in Sweden as regards the budget of the bourgeois opposition and not the same review of the media. Nevertheless, I hope that the result here today will be that the bourgeois proposals for the environmental and climate budget and the cuts there will be rejected in this House but also by the Swedish people in elections. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Kristina Yngwe from the Center Party to address her party colleague Hans-Göran-Göran Johansson, Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board of Värnamo, where Värnamo Energi is building a new heating network, with SEK 8 1⁄2 million from the Government's Climate Action. Emissions are expected to decrease by 391 tonnes of CO2 per year. H on can also turn to Ann ‐ Marie Nilsson, the centre party and the municipal board's chairman in Jönköping. The municipality has invested in new safer bike paths for commuters with support from the Climate Centre. Explain to them, Kristina Yngwe, why initiative and commitment as theirs should stand back in favour of tax cuts for those who earn the most! Jesper Skalberg Karlsson from the Moderates! D u can turn to your party colleague in Helsingborg, Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board Peter Danielsson, who has received money from the Climate Centre to improve the cycling network so that more people have increased opportunities to commute collectively by train instead of driving a car. Please explain why such commitment and initiative as he and his municipality have shown, not only in the climate area but in the environmental field in general, should be allowed to stand back. Jesper Skalberg Karlsson and the Moderates can also explain how it relates when you say that you want to invest SEK 500 million in international climate investments and at the same time reduce with the same amount, SEK 500 million, in another area of expenditure, no. 7, which is the government's investment in the same thing. Then you beat your chest and say that less money for international climate investments than the government has presented is to climate maximize. Lars Tysklind of the Liberals! What do you say to your party colleague Daniel Adborn in Nynäshamn about the charging stations now installed in Nynäshamn harbour? Instead, why should that money have gone to tax cuts for those who earn the most? Madam President, I would like I have not calculated exactly how many proposals for measures to meet the environmental objectives contained in this budget. But that's hundreds. I dare say, and I have said it many times, that it is the most ambitious budget for the environment and climate that has been on this Parliament's table. It is a focus on a green community building. We have steadily increased investment throughout the term of office, and we have done so entirely with funded measures. We have done so with a good and responsible economic policy. We have done so at the same time as we have taken the Swedish economy from a deficit to a surplus. Year after year, we have been able to invest more in our common environment and climate. There are new investments for 5 billion in this budget for environment and climate only for 2018. These are priorities of climate, biodiversity, non-toxic environment and cleaner seas and water. It is the view of the government and my party that without proper investment we will not achieve what we have committed ourselves to reducing our climate emissions, for example in the Paris International Agreement. That is why we support this budget for climate investments in homes, in municipalities and in business. It is about money for climate change, for industry, for climate and energy advice to citizens and for climate adaptation. Sweden will become the world's first fossil-free welfare state. These are agreements that we in Parliament have decided on, set clear objectives for and agreed on. If we are to stick to this agreement, we cannot just say no to the proposals contained in this ambitious environmental and climate budget without presenting alternatives with the same momentum and results if we are to reach our joint agreements. The government and we Social Democrats are making new efforts based on what is our assessment: that this is what is least needed to meet environmental objectives, to meet commitments in the EU and to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. We stand here to have a political debate and are open to discussing whether these are the right measures. However, it cannot be a question of simply saying no to these proposals without at the same time saying yes to something that has the same effect and the same extent. Madam President, I would like I am in favour of a historically large climate and environmental budget, and I feel very justified in calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-ba85b049978249cc-598	Madam President, I would like Thanks to Matilda Ernkrans for this inspiring post! I look back in the Minutes of the debate last year and see that it is almost exactly the same thing that is being said. Madam President, I would like There was a time when the Social Democrats cared about financial stability. Göran Persson as Minister of Finance completed the budgetary adjustment that Anne Wibble started, and with Göran Persson as Prime Minister, the fiscal framework came into place. There was a great will from the Social Democrats during this time to have a budget in balance. It went so far as to even reduce pensions in the 1990s. Now all this seems abandoned. The surplus target has been adjusted downwards, but the government still cannot present a plan to reach the new lower surplus target. We have a burning boom, but the government has done nothing that affects equilibrium unemployment, that is, the part of unemployment that is affected by politics. The Social Democrats stand here beating their chests for increasing the confiscation of forests, the green gold, in Norrland. They also beat their chests for an e-bike premium of 350 million to Stockholmers who want to cycle to work. Is it really serious, Matilda Ernkrans?
i-ba85b049978249cc-602	Madam President, I would like Already the fact that you can follow what the Social Democrats think and think about Swedish environmental and climate policy year after year should guarantee that even a moderate Member of Parliament can feel a certain degree of security in that we know what we want in environmental and climate policy and that we also ensure that we implement it. Moreover, the fact that we are doing it with an economically responsible policy must put the Moderates in the eye. We are capable of making the very necessary investments in our common environment, for jobs, for innovations and for prosperity. At the same time, we have turned the deficit in the Swedish economy left by the Minister of Finance of the Moderates into a surplus. Peacefully, nicely and calmly, and with order and order in the Swedish economy, we manage to invest in a better future for our environment and climate, but also for our common well-being. If Jesper Skalberg Karlsson from the Moderates is now so interested in this issue of economics, jobs and unemployment, it would be interesting to hear how the Moderates have planned to come forward with proposals for a massive reduction in one of our environmental authorities, which means that every third or every fourth employee will be allowed to leave the agency and that chaos will arise. How do the Moderates intend to do that? And what responsibility do you take for the unemployment that it would create, but also for the environmental measures that would not be done?
i-ba85b049978249cc-606	Madam President, I would like I don't know exactly how big the Environmental Protection Agency is. But I am convinced that it would not affect unemployment in Sweden, more than at the slightest margin, if one in four people were to leave. I can inform Matilda Ernkrans that the environmental budget we have presented is not a crisis, panic and horror budget. Rather, it is a return to the 2015 level. And I can't remember that there was a crisis, panic or fear at the Environmental Protection Agency then. As far as growth and jobs are concerned, we are currently experiencing growth in Sweden. It depends mainly on three things. It is exports to other countries, of which many countries' economies are rather doped by increased loans. We also have a large public consumption, as a result of a large reception of refugees. It's decreasing. And we have a strong private consumption, as a result of the job tax deductions, against which the Social Democrats are opposed. We can look at three growth sectors and take the manufacturing industry and the forest as an example. As regards Cementa on Gotland, which is one of Europe's greenest cement factories, the government wants to make Natura 2000 site in Cementa's land area and close the plant. In the forests of Norrland, there are increasing numbers of key biotopes. How can we use the green gold if we can't harvest the forest? And it is clear that LKAB and SSAB – two large state-owned companies – are affected by tax increases of SEK 40 billion. The question to Matilda Ernkrans and the Social Democrats is: Where will growth really come from in the future?
i-ba85b049978249cc-612	Madam President, I would like I am a social democrat and very much part of the fact that we in Sweden have formed a forestry policy that balances on two equal goals – environmental objectives and production targets. I am the first to support the Swedish forest being cultivated. It has been the mainstay of the Swedish economy for many years and will continue to be so, with even greater intensity if we are to cope with climate change. I am also a social democrat who stands just as strong for us being able to do both. We are also able to remove some of our forest from farming to also meet our commitments in terms of biodiversity, recreation, tourism and tourism. It's connected. We can do both. We don't have to do what the Moderates want – choose. For them, it is always more important to lower taxes than to be able to do both – manage to farm the forest and protect it, manage to invest in the environment and climate, and create jobs and build well-being. If the Moderates seriously believe that k limatmaxa is to remove 32 percent of the grant to an environmental authority, to reject the Industrial and Climate Climatic Life and to spend less money on international climate investments because you trixes in the budget, they are really bad out and back where they have been for many years. They always give priority to new tax cuts over those which are offensive and innovative and which build confidence in the future, namely investment in our common.
i-ba85b049978249cc-616	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the speech, Matilda Ernkrans! I can only say what I said in my introductory speech; you get caught up in the size of the appropriations. Matilda Ernkrans also performed this with great certainty. The strange thing is that I just mentioned publicly available charging infrastructure as an investment supported by the Liberals, in our grant line National investments. This should also apply in Nynäshamn. So I feel secure in that question. There may be different approaches to this, as I tried to say in my speech. It's not just about money. You can have other types of instruments. I would like to raise one question again. How does Matilda Ernkrans view the funding for the investment in electric bicycles in the budget? It is, as has been said earlier, a rapidly growing and mature market. It has increased by 50% in recent years. In this situation, the state is investing 350 million in that sector. We see a clear and obvious risk that it will only reduce the price pressure and that most of the money will not benefit individual consumers. Liberals have also added, in particular during national climate investments, that it is much more important to invest in bicycle infrastructure in general. Does Matilda Ernkrans not see the obvious risk that it will be counterproductive when so much government funds are entered into a mature market, and that the aim of obtaining an advantage for the individual consumer will not be achieved in any way?
i-ba85b049978249cc-621	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, today we are ready to debate and turn around and turn what can be and become the right measures for us to meet Swedish environmental objectives, climate change and, not least, to achieve the ambitious goals on which we broadly agree in this House. I can fully understand that not all parties in this House think that all the measures proposed by the government are good. What I do not understand is such outrage at some of the government's proposals, but that one takes responsibility for presenting other measures that could have the same effect. We still have to agree that we have to change Swedish society, don't we? We must be able to transport both people and goods without leading to fossil emissions from oil, coal and gas. If some people in densely populated cities have the opportunity to get to and from work and to and from the store with the help of an electric bicycle and can set up their petrol car, it is certainly excellent if we can support such development together. I feel much more confident with such an effort than I did when the Liberals and the other bourgeois parties themselves were in government and decided to subsidise the fossil diesel car, instead of taking responsibility for the environment. What if something was a mistake?
i-ba85b049978249cc-624	Madam President, I would like It feels a little strange that we have got into a discussion if it is good or bad to ride a bike. I and several others have tried to say that it is not the state that should provide that precondition, in a market that has grown and where prices have fallen. State aid will only disrupt development. Expenditure must, in fact, be given priority. It's about tax money. Another example that Matilda Ernkrans mentioned was charging poles in Nynäshamn and that we should not support public charging poles. We have clearly indicated that we are doing so. I also wonder how you can come up with the idea that the state should come up with a load-home support to get a charging station at home. We are talking about a very limited expenditure that lands between SEK 15 000 and SEK 20 000. It will be a completely unreasonable situation if the state first goes in and pays for the purchase of a new car and then supports the charging infrastructure in the homes and so on. Compared with what Matilda Ernkrans says about bikes, it is not the same condition. If you have a consistent approach and use the tax tables – as I explained – to steer away things that are climate- and environmentally unfriendly, it is also a strategy that you can say yes to. I think that Matilda Ernkrans somehow gives the impression that the only thing we can say yes to is to have this kind of support. We Liberals cannot do that.
i-ba85b049978249cc-629	Madam President, I would like I cannot go along with what the Liberals and other bourgeois parties in this House are putting forward, namely that our environmental and climate challenge could be met by massive cuts in the climate and environmental budget. One cannot say that the challenge is so simple that if we just let things go the way they have been before, we will be able to solve this. I don't think so. I don't think you can just let things be the way they were before. And it's not just what I think, we know that what was before was not enough. In order to achieve our environmental objectives and our even more ambitious climate targets, on which we broadly agree in this House, we must do something new, something more, something better. If, for the Liberals, it means removing billions from climate change that today goes to charging infrastructure and replacing it with some smaller, more limited charging infrastructure, then it has not come in t longer but shorter. If it is okay to use tax money for subsidised diesel cars, as you did when you had government power, what is the problem if you now think electric bicycles are a better idea? Electric bicycles have no fossil emissions and do not cause a problem with air quality. Then I do not really understand the outrage that the electric bike would be worse than diesel cars.
i-AhBA6AmSUuMU7oWLYRJhTQ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Matilda Ernkrans, for your speech. I was going to focus on something that I think we agree on, that air quality is an important issue. Developments in this area have been good. Our air is getting better. Emissions of air particles are decreasing. Our Swedish cities belong to the cleanest. Here in Stockholm it is today better air than it is in many other cities in Sweden. The biggest problem today is firewood. It is considered to be the worst, but thankfully no one has talked about banning the burning of wood, at least not within the space of two years. On the other hand, the government is voting to ban the vast majority of diesel cars by introducing new environmental zones within two years. The issue involves many people today. Aftonbladet did a survey yesterday and asked the parties how they view this. It was never possible to find out what the Social Democrats think, because they did not want to respond. So my question to Matilda Ernkrans is simply: how do the Social Democrats view this issue? Do they share the views expressed by the Minister for the Environment? Is it better to ban than to purify? Is it better to let individual citizens take the fall?
i-ba85b049978249cc-637	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions from the Swedish Democrats and for the commitment to air quality! I think that I partly answered this question in my speech when I spoke about phasing lead out of petrol. That's when lead was banned in gasoline. It wouldn't have been enough just to clean. Sometimes you have to manage to keep two thoughts in your head at the same time. It may be that sometimes it is easier and better to go forward with a ban, sometimes it is also necessary to use new purification techniques. That is how we have done in Sweden until now, and I see no reason to reject it for the future as well. Environmental zones were something that we broadly agreed on in the Environmental Objectives Committee and submitted as a basis to the government. E xact how the environmental zones are to be designed is now being prepared in the Government Office. I feel very confident that there will be a proposal that both improves air quality and takes responsibility for people facing a change when you can no longer use the same way the diesel car that was subsidised by the government that the Swedish Democrats want to continue to support. They'd like to see a new moderate prime minister. The previous government basically tricked people into buying a diesel car as an environmental car. It would be interesting to ask the question back to the Swedish Democrats, when we now see the commitment to air quality, about how you think when you decide to massively save on Swedish nature. It's quite remarkable. If you don't care so much about Swedish nature, you should care about the jobs in rural areas, the 1 100 jobs that have already been created because this government has prioritised Swedish nature.
i-ba85b049978249cc-642	Madam President, I would like The lead in petrol was a process that took a few decades. It was the United States that began by banning lead, and then Europe came after it. It was a long time for the transition. It didn't work in the space of two years. It's the same with wood burning. We cannot ban people from burning wood in the stove next year or in two years' time. On the other hand, more demands can be made on boilers. Once new boilers are sold, they should be better than the old ones. The problem with wood burning is that it probably takes a very long time. This has been a success for the automotive and transport sectors. There are demands for new technologies, and that is why we have as clean air as we have. That is also why things are getting better and better. I interpret Matilda Ernkrans to be satisfied with the government statement that there should be no diesel cars in the cities. There is no sense of responsibility for the investment made by individual citizens. The Social Democrats often devote themselves to a certain type of history writing, but I do not know anything about the Social Democrats not wanting subsidies for diesel cars in the past. The Swedish Democrats were against this. We did not want these subsidies that have created the incentives that, combined with a lack of control, have led to this situation. The Social Democrats also went to elections to introduce a bonus – the Malus system, but they wanted to allow the old environmental car standard to prevail. At least that was the starting point, and there the diesel cars were part of it. But I interpret the answer as saying that the Social Democrats think that what the Minister for the Environment has said is balanced, that you should not have these cars and that you feel no responsibility for people's investments.
i-ba85b049978249cc-647	Madam President, I would like What I said was that environmental zones are now being prepared within the Government Office. I feel confident that something wise will be arrived at, taking into account both the improvement in air quality and the fact that people in good faith made rather poor investments eagerly imposed by not least the bourgeois alliance. Environmental zones are not new either. These already exist today. It's nothing that's come up out of nowhere. Martin Kinnunen is absolutely right. After all, when lead was removed from petrol, courageous environmentalists took the lead. It was conservative right-wing forces that were then, as at present, strongly opposed to a more ambitious environmental policy. It is these conservative high forces that the Swedish democrats are joining. In fact, when it comes to environmental and climate policy or other policies at all, it is not easy to take the Swedish Democrats seriously when they say they were against or for and so on. Finally, year after year, we have seen what is happening in this House. When the Swedish Democrats' budget has fallen, you vote for the Moderates' budget. Then it is the Moderates' budget that you represent.
i-ba85b049978249cc-651	Madam President, I would like When you talk to people, they often say: You politicians think the same. There's no difference. I hope that people listening to this debate still realise that there is a difference. There is a difference between the parties and between different government constellations, but it can be difficult to see where the dividing lines go. When I entered Parliament in 2009, we were in an economic crisis. We managed to get through it because we realized that it is companies that generate tax revenue and jobs and are the ones that can be the key to prosperity. The fact that there are people who find the effort worth starting and developing businesses creates a wealth. This means that we can afford the welfare. As I said before, the government has chosen not to invest in tax shifting for jobs and the environment. The government has chosen to increase the tax, and it increases the tax on the environment but does not reduce it on jobs. I see this as a problem. Why do you dislike the exchange of taxes, Matilda Ernkrans, when we know that this is exactly what would bring a lot back?
i-ba85b049978249cc-655	Madam President, I would like LarsLars-Axel Nordell of the Christian Democrats is right. There are differences between the policy options. There is a difference of 5 billion already in 2018 in the investments we make on the environment and climate. Surely there is a difference – 5 billion in difference between investments in the environment and climate. I heard from Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell's speech that he repeatedly came back to raising environmental taxes only if, at the same time, taxes on labour are reduced. The Christian Democrats are free to think that this connection must be precise and precise. The Social Democrats have been involved in contributing to green tax exchanges in certain times. In these times, we are contributing to raising taxes on the environment, because they fell behind during the bourgeois reign. We have not in the same way allowed it to correspond to reduced taxes on labour. This is partly because we are actually taking responsibility for reducing the tax gap between pensioners and those who work. This gap will be completely eliminated by 2020. If we are to talk about differences between different political parties, the Christian Democrats here will be guilty of the answer. Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell argues in this climate and environmental debate that if you are to raise taxes on the environment, you have to lower them on labour. But in the same breath as he says this, he has again widened the gap between what pensioners should pay in taxes and what those who work should pay in taxes. The Christian Democrats are not making any sense here. Right, Lars ‐ Axel Nordell?
i-ba85b049978249cc-659	Madam President, I would like Well, we really make it go together. We are completely removing the gap between the person who works and the person who has a pension. The difference that has existed is removed from our draft budget. We know that the difference arose when we introduced the job tax credit, which gave us income so that we could invest in welfare. It gave more hours worked. Moreover, the Social Democrats have subsequently accepted these job tax deductions. They haven't removed them. However, we are the only party that completely removes the difference in tax between pension and work. The government doesn't. Instead, the government has now increased or introduced new taxes. You've invested in 64 different taxes. Of course you have money for waste. You have a lot of money because you have raised and introduced so many taxes. That is why it is no wonder that you can now invest in, for example, subsidies for electric bicycles, which we have already talked about so many times. The next question must be: What is effective and what results? I also mentioned the Baltic Sea initiative. There is a suggestion that much more can be done to achieve rapid results. We have this in our budget. Matilda Ernkrans took up the diesel investment. The bourgeois government did that, but the Social Democrats themselves had no other proposal. We can be hindsight and say that it is important to make long-term investments. Therefore, we can also be critical of some of the investments that you are now making. You shoot from the hip instead of ensuring that the bet is right and gives the desired effect.
i-ba85b049978249cc-664	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats have been pushing and proposing a bonus – the Malus system for quite a number of years, even during the bourgeois reign. However, it is only now with a social democratic and environmental party government that we, with the support of the Left Party, can present a real proposal for bonuses – malus on the table of the Riksdag. Surely there's a difference between politics. We Social Democrats do not think it is wasteful to invest in the environment and climate. We think it is about investment. And it is about investment not only for the sake of the environment and climate, but also to create jobs, innovation and confidence in the future for better welfare. The Christian Democrats and Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell are still the answer when it comes to how to reconcile politics. Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell says that the Christian Democrats will be able to remove the gap that they have created for pensioners, the pensioner tax gap, which this government really is now removing. At the same time, he says they will widen the gap again. For the tax deduction, Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell, was of course reduced tax on labour. If, on the one hand, you say that you are now going to remove the gap and, on the other hand, in the debate you say that you can only increase environmental taxes if you also lower the tax on labour, you have in the same breath widened the gap again and created a new pensioner gap. I very much hope that the Swedish people will listen to this debate and think that investments in the environment and climate are not wasteful, but important investments in the future. I also hope that people think it is important that we remove the gap between pensioners' incomes and workers' incomes in real terms, and choose to vote in favour of this when we go to elections.
i-ba85b049978249cc-669	Madam President, I would like Climate is one of the government's three priority areas. As Minister for the Environment, I am particularly proud of the comprehensive and broad palette of environmental and climate reforms within the 2018 budget. Sweden is pushing for the goals of Agenda 2030 to be achieved. During the year, new milestones will be developed in the Swedish environmental objectives system. Our generation should be able to leave behind a society for our children where the major environmental problems are solved and where cities develop to be living and healthy growing-up environments. Much remains to be done. For too long it has been underinvested in sustainable development. Throughout the term of office, the Government has focused its efforts to strengthen the environment and climate area. Many results are already visible: in nature where protection and accessibility are increasing, among companies where investments are made to accelerate the transition to fossil freedom and in municipalities where trams, charging poles and bicycle infrastructure come into place. Reform work needs to continue. There's no time to lose. But let me be clear: Sweden's environmental and climate policy is not a quarterly economy. It is about long-term rules that make it possible to switch to a fossil-free welfare country. We see how other countries want to back off their climate commitments, but the Swedish government does exactly the opposite. We show climate leadership both nationally and internationally. Sweden now has a new climate policy framework with a progressive climate law. It sets targets and directions for future governments. This guarantees continued high climate ambitions in Sweden and shows leadership in the implementation of the Paris Agreement. We show that it is possible to combine ecological sustainability with welfare, justice and development. But real investment is also needed. During the term of office, the budget for the environment and climate has more than doubled. Among other things, the government strengthens the climate economy, where support is given to those measures that provide the largest sustainable reduction in greenhouse gas emissions per invested krona. During the year, we have seen several clear examples of the effects of a changed climate: the water shortage in large parts of our country, the Lucifer Lucifer wave in southern Europe, the drought on the Horn of Africa and Hurricanes Harvey and Irma. The transformation of society must be accelerated. Even future generations should be able to lead a good and safe life. Therefore, the government is investing in reinforced climate adaptation work. Emissions from industry are to be reduced. The process industry is being given new support for innovative projects and green technological leaps, an industrial leap. A strategy is being developed for the transition to a circular and bio-based economy. Renewable energy production is expanding. Sweden will be the leader in the transition to a sustainable society, and cities can take the lead. Many solutions to environmental and climate issues exist locally. The Government therefore wants to make it easier for municipalities to change the pace of conversion. The government continues to invest in the urban environment agreements and is establishing new support for greenery in cities. With this support, the government wants to strengthen the conditions for cities to develop into living, green, healthy and safe places. In the budget, the government takes several important steps to tackle the climate impact of the transport sector. We replace previous environmental car support with a brand new bonus – malus, which means that we increase the charge for high-emission cars and introduce support for low-emission cars. The Alliance government's choice to subsidise diesel cars has contributed significantly to the air quality problems that our cities are facing today. The government sees great advantages in that more bicycles and sees potential in the electric cycle, as research shows can replace car travel. Therefore, support for electric vehicles will help both to reduce emissions from transport and to live cities with more cycling and less car traffic. Emissions of dangerous nitrogen dioxide from diesel cars are increasing. Air pollution is a major source of lung, cardiovascular and premature death. In Sweden, poor air causes the death of up to 5 500 Swedes annually. Children should breathe clean air, and the government will therefore give municipalities the opportunity to ban cars with high health hazards through environmental zones. Sweden's nature offers fantastic experiences. Pick mushrooms in the forest, swim or climb mountains – everyone who is in Sweden has the right to be in a responsible way and enjoy nature. It's an invaluable privilege. Nature will become more accessible, so that more people can discover its values and be inspired to outdoor activities, moti on or relaxation. Access to nature contributes to a healthier society. Man depends on nature. Yet it is often taken for granted. Since 1970, the number of vertebrates has fallen by over 50 percent. The number of freshwater species has fallen by over 80 percent. A recent German study shows that since 1989 the number of flying insects has fallen by over 75 percent. Living seas, prosperous forests and rich plant and animal life create good conditions for people, organisations and the business community. Nature must therefore be protected, managed and used in a sustainable way. The cuts proposed by the opposition in this area greatly reduce the possibility of achieving Swedish environmental objectives. I think that voters need to know how the opposition intends to act in order to achieve the objectives. If the opposition's proposal becomes a reality, it risks leading to, among other things, the felling of protected forests rather than protecting them. Sweden is a sea country. We Swedes depend on the seas. But our seas are also sensitive and vulnerable. It is about the algal bloom, which grows, bottoms that die and wrecks that after several hundred years still leak fuel and chemicals. The government is making a historic offensive to protect the seas. The low groundwater levels of the last year and the year provide a prediction of a future in which water scarcity and droughts are becoming more common. Groundwater affects our drinking water supply, agriculture and forestry, industry and tourism. The government is therefore making a major effort to prevent drought and deepen the mapping of groundwater resources. Plastic has sailed up as a major environmental issue in recent years. It was about time. A garbage truck ends up in the oceans every minute. Small disposables that are used for a few seconds are thrown into nature and float around the oceans for hundreds of years. The government is setting up an investigation and has given the commission to look carefully at the environmental impact of plastics and make suggestions on how to address these problems. The budget also proposes a substantial effort to address the problems of plastics in the oceans. Madam President, I would like The offensive work on today's greatest challenge has only just begun. We've got a lot of work to do. Attitude, business as usual, does not hold up when science and expertise alert about the extinction of species, about plastic and dangerous chemicals in drinking water and about climate change happening here and now. Alarms are a wake-up call, but they're not the whole story. Equally important is to remember that there is a demand for more environmental policy. The time when the environment was seen as a brake on development is over. Today, a new measurement was presented showing that the environment and climate are the issue that young voters between 18 and 29 see as the most important political issue. In this budget, the government shows that we take their concerns for their future seriously. People want a nontoxic everyday life and clean air. Companies want long-term prospects for developing green solutions. We must do more now, because the climate and the environment cannot wait.
i-ba85b049978249cc-689	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for being present today and debating with us. From the Parliament we very much appreciate the opportunity to take the discussion directly with the Minister for the Environment. I may say that it is a bit bleak that the Minister is imposing the opposition and the Alliance's diesel problem. I have not quite understood that the Minister for the Environment himself is a miracle of action in marking against what has happened to cheating and other things concerning diesel. But that's not what I'm gonna ask you. Biogas is an important part of the problem of air pollution and, above all, the transition to a fossil-independent vehicle fleet. As mentioned earlier, there are a great many advantages to biogas, such as the freedom of fossils and less air pollution. It is also part of a cycle that re-uses food waste, crops or whatever it may be and gets a working fuel from it. As things stand, a great many people have made investments that feel that the conditions are very uncertain, and it is investments that are being stopped. The biogas industry in general is very concerned about what the future conditions will be. That is why my question to the Minister is: how does the government view this problem, and what is in the pipeline?
i-ba85b049978249cc-693	Madam President, I would like I and the government fully agree with the view that biogas is an important part of the transition to fossil freedom. In addition to having effects on the climate, it is a very smart circular solution with several benefits. I am in close contact with those who are concerned about the discrepancy that has arisen between the support of different EU countries. Let's take a good look at it. We need to build a better puzzle against other countries. We also need to increase the demand for gas. Part of it is to bring the gas cars clearly into the bonus – the malus system. This is one way to contribute to increased demand for biogas. We will come back with more measures in that part. I have to say that Kristina Yngwe defends herself against taking responsibility for the problems caused by diesel cars. It can be difficult to get in the face that you need to take that kind of responsibility. In fact, the knowledge that diesel cars have high emissions of particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide has been around for a long time. There were many of us in the last parliamentary term who repeatedly turned to the government and asked that it remove the subsidy on diesel cars. That government was totally freezing against such fears. It was also party friends of Kristina Yngwe who from Stockholm made that kind of appeal. They didn't get any kind of response. That means you have some responsibility for the situation. Of course, that part of the industry that has cheated should correct the cheating. There's no doubt about it. That responsibility shares the industry and the German authorities that have approved cars with cheating.
i-ba85b049978249cc-698	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. It is good that the government sees that there is a problem and works with it. But it is not exactly a new problem that has arisen. The situation is quite acute for many biogas producers. In our budget we are proposing, among other things, an increase in methane reduction aid and a circular premium precisely to facilitate production. As the Minister says, it is also a question of the demand side. It is great if you get the biogas into the environmental car definition and bonus-malus system. But it is also a question of origin labelling and targets for the collection of food waste so that we can make it work. There are also problems when you look at the reduction obligation that will be decided on. After 2020, we do not really know what applies. There are other questions. We remember in the last round to 2015 how many questions there were about the tax reductions and how late they got there. Now the industry does not know what will continue to happen after 2020. There is an indicative target for the change of fuel by 2030. But there is no real plan for how to move forward. I would still like the Minister to perhaps develop a little more clearly what more concrete measures the Government intends to take to facilitate biogas.
i-ba85b049978249cc-703	Madam President, I would like It is almost laughable to hear center parties in Parliament stand and say: Let's take a strong stance in the discussion with the EU on biofuels. For the sake of the industry, let us hope by Gud that it is not a center-party minister who tries to take those discussions. The former Centre Minister failed to find long-term solutions for biofuels in Sweden and put forward proposals that had to be withdrawn because they did not hold the discussions with the EU. The government has found much better solutions for the possibility of creating long-term conditions for the production of biofuels in Sweden. We haven't solved the whole part. But we have taken several really important steps forward, and reduction is the most important thing. As far as fuel with 100% biogas is concerned, there are still discussions to be held. We're working hard on it. It's not easy. But we have done a great deal more for the opportunity to invest in biofuels in Sweden than the failure of previous governments. I'd lower my guard if I were Kristina Yngwe.
i-ba85b049978249cc-706	Madam President, I would like Welcome to the Chamber, Minister for the Environment! It is very good that the Minister for the Environment is taking part in this debate. It is also fun that the Minister for the Environment highlights young people and their views on climate and sustainability. It's a group you could listen to more. I know that in the specific age group, the Moderates are the most sympathetic party. Of course there's a lot to get. As far as diesel cars are concerned, the Minister for the Environment first spoke to Kristina Yngwe. It may be appropriate to ask why the government is so passive in making demands on manufacturers. We had here today a debate on Postnords and letters that do not come forward. As far as this matter is concerned, it seems that the reminders are coming to the government, but it does not seem to do much about it. However, my main question does not concern letters and mail or young people. It applies to the right way in which the Minister for the Environment is standing here talking about order and order in climate and environmental policy. If you look at the government party track record when it comes to following the practice, rules and agreements you can see that it is a bit shaky. The government parties broke the budget rules in 2013. Now they are breaching the fiscal framework when they do not reach the surplus target. In the last few weeks, they have announced a climate policy council in a way that goes completely contrary to the way it was described in the final report of the Environmental Objectives Committee. They have not spoken to Parliament's parties but have run their own race. These are the budgetary rules, the fiscal framework and the environmental objectives. Can the government be trusted in order at all?
i-ba85b049978249cc-714	Madam President, I would like The government presents a strong and responsible budget. We have the opportunity both to pay off our national debt and to invest in the common society and in the construction of a green society. These are powerful investments in all aspects of welfare. In this work and in the strong economic policy pursued by the government, there is room for a strong environmental and climate policy. Not only are we making up new ideas, but we are also funding the work of the authorities to implement these ideas. In the Environmental Objectives Committee, parties agreed on clear goals on the climate side. They also agreed that new instruments are needed to achieve these objectives. In the budget we have presented, including what we are debating today, the Government presents a number of instruments that take us towards the goal set by the Riksdag. On the other hand, the Moderates are silent. We are told what is not good, is not effective, but they do not give any information. Which instruments do the Moderates believe will enable Sweden to achieve the climate goals and environmental policy objectives?
i-ba85b049978249cc-719	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the Environment for his answer. I'm glad the Minister for the Environment is here. But if she does not intend to answer the questions asked, consider why she is here. I note that I do not get an answer to my question on order in environmental and climate policy. I shall therefore proceed with another question to see if I am more fortunate to have an answer to it. When we look at environmental and climate policy globally, we see that we obviously need to prioritise emission reductions, and in particular reduce the use of coal in the world. The IPCC, the UN Panel on Climate Change, points to nuclear power as an important component in the future if we are really to have a stable electricity supply that is independent of sulphur-intensive fossil fuels. In the future, technology development, technology transfer and research are three important stages that you need to work with in parallel. But we also know that certain emissions are very difficult to access. They can't really escape. I am thinking of the process industry, and I am thinking of the heavy industry. The Moderates are very positive about, for example, projects such as Hybrid, which are about collecting hydrogen into steel production. But many parties, those who support the Environmental Objectives Committee's proposals, also know that Swedish climate policy cannot rely on just one innovation. We have to have a backup if it doesn't come out well. Therefore, the Environmental Objectives Committee has agreed that Sweden needs to have a CCS strategy and come up with carbon capture and storage shortly in order to be able to get anywhere near the targets until 2045. My question to the Minister for the Environment is therefore: how is the CCS strategy going, and when will it be put on Parliament's table?
i-ba85b049978249cc-725	Madam President, I would like The Moderates seem to live in a world where you can divide up climate policy and do a little bit. They do not seem to have realised that this is a change in society. It is also very strange to hear that the Moderates have lower ambitions for Swedish industry than Swedish industry itself. Swedish industry clearly states a vision of becoming independent of fossil fuels. We share this vision. We stand with them and make this effort. What's the big deal about saying they're probably not gonna make it? This is not the kind of policy that the government and I stand for. Climate policy must be broad. That is clear both to the international scientific community and to me. I also understand that this is the approach taken in the proposal of the Environmental Objectives Committee. We have to work at home, we have to work internationally and we have to work with research. And we must start from the research that now exists and act now. We cannot just find excuses and propose measures that do not mean that we need to change. That doesn't mean we're not going to change. We may need CCS internationally. The Government's priority is to create a climate policy that has an effect in Sweden and the world here and now.
i-ba85b049978249cc-734	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for coming here to this very interesting debate! I was going to talk a little bit about biofuels – the change of fuel as it is called. It has become an important issue in Sweden because we have the sector-by-sector objective, which places a great deal of focus on reducing emissions from the transport sector. One thing you don't think about is that the biofuels we consume in Sweden cause emissions indirectly, here in Sweden but usually somewhere else. This is something you should be more concerned about. We have, for example, the Minister's own party colleagues down in Europe, who talk a lot about these issues. They are talking, for example, about pine oil, which, according to fairly consistent research today, has no good emission values. Despite this, you put great hope in this in Sweden. When we come to the change of fuel, we have a situation in which emissions are to be reduced sharply at very short notice. Above all, this will be a problem for diesel. I would like to ask the Minister: do you not think there will be a price effect? Will the price of diesel not be increased as a result of the proposal to be implemented on 1 July? The government has gone in with reduced taxes on diesel, but will that be enough? Do you think you will be able to get as much HVO as it takes to prevent us from seeing a sharp rise in the price?
i-ba85b049978249cc-739	Madam President, I would like The purpose of the change of fuel is to create the conditions for investments in biofuel production here in Sweden. We have several companies and a whole industry that is on their toes and wants to invest, but they have not done this before because the conditions have not been in place. They have not been aware of the long-term rules of the game, largely due to uncertainties linked to EU state aid rules. With the change of fuel, we create and guarantee a demand for biofuels in Sweden. We have developed this in close dialogue with the Swedish fuel industry, which wants to be part of the transition to fossil freedom and invest in biofuel production in Sweden. I am absolutely convinced that the change of fuel will deliver. We have already received, before it enters into force, at least two major investments in Sweden. It is not in the big cities that these investments come, but they are linked to the places in the country where we have a large part of the forest industry. New jobs will be created. As far as the price is concerned, as was mentioned, we will make an adjustment to the diesel tax so that we will not have a price shock when the reform is introduced. This is a step-by-step and well-balanced approach. It is ambitious, but it is also possible for the industry to cope.
i-ba85b049978249cc-743	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Reasonably, it was spoken of. In Germany the ambition is 4 per cent, but in Sweden it is almost 20 per cent on diesel. Then it should be remembered that in Sweden today we need to absorb about 60 percent of the raw materials to produce HVO. Now we need even more at the same time as the reduction obligation is introduced in more countries in Europe. I do not really understand how this can work in a good way. The fuel industry and the transport sector are concerned. We are concerned that we have dual instruments today. We have a complete reduction in the tax on HVO100. It is clear that consumption will be directed there, while the involvement of other fuels will increase as well. Working with dual instruments is not something the industry wants, so why does the government persist in continuing with the dual instruments? For example, why not remove the full reduction in HVO100? And why design the reduction obligation so radically? The Swedish Democrats are in favour of a reduction obligation, but it does not need to be implemented so quickly. Nor does it have to be as strong as it is with the government's proposal. We could find good biofuels that have low emission values so that we do not have the ful biofuels that the Green Party has contributed to. Today we consume a lot of palm oil-based fuels in Sweden, which probably increases emissions more and is worse to run on than fossil fuels.
i-ba85b049978249cc-748	Madam President, I would like When we introduce the change of fuel and increase the demand for biofuels in Sweden, it is incredibly important that it is the sustainable biofuels that emerge. Biofuels are in themselves a broad concept. It accommodates a variety of fuels produced in different ways. There are several methods to ensure that it is the sustainable fuels that arrive at Swedish consumers. Some are about improving the information at the pump so that consumers know more. Another part is that we have reviewed the regulation of palm oil and PFAD. Palm oil is the opposite of a sustainable biofuel. The truth is that the Swedish Democrats have been active here in the Riksdag to stop regulation, which is intended to distinguish palm oil from other fuels. The Swedish democrats have actively worked to delay the regulation that we intend to put in place and have acted in a way that the Swedish fuel industry has said would stop any investment that is under way in relation to new production facilities for biofuels in Sweden. Thankfully, a good compromise was made in committee so that the initiative taken by the Swedish Democrats could be removed. Therefore, several major investment plans for new production facilities for Swedish biofuels are now moving forward. This will provide green jobs, and it will also have both environmental and climate effects. We already have biofuels in mind without being informed. The answer to why it is ambitious is that it is urgent to work with the climate. We can't wait.
i-ba85b049978249cc-753	Madam President, I would like We are here today to debate a historic investment in the environment and climate budget. It is an initiative that makes me as an environmentalist incredibly proud and happy, but at the same time also distressed. I am proud and happy because it is the largest environmental budget ever. During the time of the Alliance it stood still, but during our government we have more than doubled it. Then why am I in a bad mood? Because these efforts and more are needed. Enough because the local environment has improved. The treatment plants are more efficient, the depth of view in the West Sea has improved, we source more and it is now rarely that we come home with oil spots on the towels after a dip in the sea. But a lot has gotten worse, and fast it goes. We have been discussing planetary borders in recent years. The Stockholm Resilience Centre, led by Johan Rockström, has brought these to the fore, so I think everyone knows that we must stay within the limits of the planet for what it can bear. There are nine different boundaries. If you exceed what the planet can tolerate, it'll tip over. Then we could end up in a state where we don't really know what's going on. Two of these limits are particularly important. It is biodiversity and climate change. When the extinction of the species is rapid, there are other consequences. When we do not have ecosystems and functioning habitats, we are dealing with other climate and environmental problems. The same applies to the climate. We can get a sloping plane and we can end up in something we don't know about. I think we've all been touched by seeing pictures of a starving polar bear in only skins and legs that have been lurking around. The early stately animal seemed to be just some breath from death. The pictures were taken by themselves this summer, and then there should be no ice in northeastern Canada. But the researchers say that the ice cover withdraws much faster, is much thinner and is much shorter. The seals get harder to find space for their kuts. There'll be less food for the polar bears. When the ice sheet disappears, the polar bears will remain. They don't walk with the ice that long. Therefore, I am incredibly proud of the climate initiatives that have been discussed here by both Matilda Ernkrans and Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. We invest in the industrial environment, at Klimatklliv, in strengthening support for climate and energy advice, in increasing support for solar cells. We are also making major international efforts. We must do something about this and quickly. Even an increase of 1.5 degrees of earth's temperature is too much. Right now it's 3 to 5 degrees. I'm going back to the polar bear. The film crew said it had been hard to hold back the tears when you saw the animal. But they were a little happy to see that the polar bear was chewing on something. Though hope was changed to despair when they saw that it was foam rubber from a snowmobile seat that it chewed on. Human debris is found in the most remote places. Just on our own west coast, 1 ton of plastic litter floats up an hour, round the clock, all year round. It's not a new phenomenon. As long as plastic has been found, they have been gathered in the sea. That also applies to garbage. In the past, it was recommended even to throw away the debris and bring it under the surface, for then it disappeared. At my old job, the House of the Sea in Lysekil, one received a sea leather turtle in 1994 that had swam completely wrong and ended up in Lysekil. The joy was great, but the animal was already quite exhausted and died after a few days. When you did an autopsy, you found lots of plastic bags in your stomach. The plastic that was in the sea in 1994 is still there, but perhaps in smaller pieces. The plastic won't go away, and it won't break down. Maybe it's just getting smaller and smaller parts. The researchers are now talking about a smog of plastic along the big currents of the world. Animals get tangled up in the plastic, eat it and get stomach ache and maybe die from it. The plastic provides shade and obscures the sun for our vital algae. Every second breath we take comes from the sea. Without our microalgae, it will be difficult to breathe. That is why I welcome the government's efforts on a new plastic strategy and on the cleaning of the beaches on the west coast to remove the plastic that lies there. There is also an investment in advanced treatment to remove drugs in the environment. At all, a big effort is being made to get rid of old things that lie in the environment. Madam President, I would like This weekend I found my old log from when I started diving in 1997. My tenth dive was on Thetis, a fishing boat that sank outside Kungshamn. The log says it was a wreck dive. It was a fun trip, and it was sun. I had problems with my ears, but it may not be so relevant to the audience. It was only open sea, and I remember walking down the line. You stay on the line, and there's only water everywhere. Finally they came down and saw the boat that was quite large, 38 meters. It sank in 1985. At 30 meters you don't stay that long. We swam around for a walk, and then we went up again. I talked to the more experienced divers about all the other wrecks lying on the bottom and all the oil leaks from these. There are almost 17,000 wrecks along the Swedish coasts. Of these, 3,000 are classified as potentially environmentally dangerous, and 300 have been classified as environmentally hazardous. Every election year that I have attended has representatives from all parties, from right to left, at home on the west coast said: If we come to power, then we will take care of this. You haven't done that. There has been some investigation and it has been checked how many there are, but it is only now with the Green Party and this government that we have contributed money. In this moment, Thetis is the first boat to be renovated. This means that it is 30 cubic metres of oil that is taken care of safely instead of going into an uncontrolled oil spill. It's going to cost about $5 million. This should be compared to the cost of an uncontrolled oil spill, in addition to the burden that oil has on the environment and people. It costs an incredible amount of money. The oil clean-up at Tjörn, 2011, cost over SEK 140 million for taxpayers. Madam President, I would like Doing things before disaster happens is not only smart; it is also profitable. That is why I find it very strange that the opposition lacks efforts for biodiversity in its shadow budgets. The loss of biodiversity and the loss of habitats is one of the planetary boundaries, which attracts the others and costs an incredible amount. When man in the 17th century eradicated the dodo—you know that strange, heavy bird—you might have done it because of ignorance and hunger. When, in the 18th century, we Europeans exterminated Steller's sea cow, only 27 years after the first sea cow was discovered, one might also claim ignorance. The same may apply to Tasmanian scrotum. But we can no longer hide behind ignorance and say that we did not know. We know that the eel is under immediate threat of extinction. We know that the mountain owl is under immediate threat of extinction. We know that the field hum and smooth ray are national extinct. According to the Species Databank, 209 species of the species are extinct and another 260 species are under immediate threat. Add to this thousands of others on the Red List. And it has not happened by itself, but it is due to human activity. This autumn we have taken note of research results from Germany. 82 percent of all flying insects have disappeared over a 30-year period as a result of another landscape. Without insects, no pollination, no pollination, no food. This is a disaster. That is why I am extremely pleased with the efforts made by the Green Party and the government on meadows and natural pastures. It benefits biodiversity. In addition, wetland facilities, valuable nature measures, forest management protection and the large inventory of key biotopes are being invested. Madam President, I would like Not investing in the environment and climate in these times, when we have the knowledge and know that time is short, I think is more than sticking our heads in the sand. It is a betrayal of our entire planet and future generations. I am therefore proud and pleased that the Green Party and the government are taking on their responsibilities as plane managers, and I hope that more people will follow.
i-ba85b049978249cc-782	Madam President, I would like If we had had this debate in Bangladesh, Sudan or El Salvador, it would not have been about climate change as something that could happen in the future. It would have been a very specific question that would have been about problems here and now: about crops that disappear in the drought, about thousands of families that are forced to migrate into the big city, and about floods and extreme weather that make people no longer able to live. It is the poor countries of the world that are affected by the historically high greenhouse gas emissions of industrialised states. We've broken a record in greenhouse gas emissions. Not for 800 000 years has the concentration of greenhouse gases been as high as it is today. It is not really possible to imagine as long as 800 000 years. Therefore, in the rich world, we have a responsibility to take the lead in transforming our societies so that we live within the framework of what is sustainable. Madam President, I would like I think that the budget for Category 20, which deals with the environment and climate, is a small but important step in the right direction. Here we present investments in what is turning into a more sustainable society. We need to rebuild society from scratch. We should, in fact, ban what pollutes. We should ban fossil energy sources such as oil, coal and fossil gas. Until we have such decisions in place, we shall at least make sure that taxes, high taxes, are deposited on the things that pollute and devastate our planet. We must, of course, invest in what is changing. I think that this is really a good policy for companies and for all individuals who want to act in a sustainable way. If we say that it is now 100% renewable energy that applies, I hope that all entrepreneurs understand that investing in oil, coal and fossil gas is a very bad economic business. If we now make the biggest investment ever in electrifying the vehicle fleet, by, for example, building charging poles throughout Sweden and also giving people contributions to put up charging devices at their homes, we send a clear signal that electrification is what applies in the future. In this way, businesses and consumers can adapt. We also need a policy that equalises rich to poor. The earlier bourgeois policy was one-sidedly about reducing taxes. Taxes were reduced for over SEK 100 billion. Then you get a society with increased divides. You get a society of rich and poor. I believe that communities with large gaps are particularly poorly prepared to face major challenges such as climate change. An equal society is better equipped for this great challenge. Therefore, it is not only a matter of focusing on reducing emissions, but equality in itself is also very important. I am proud of what we are presenting in this area of expenditure. This is the biggest investment ever made in the field of environmental and climate spending. This is about nearly SEK 11 billion that goes to local climate investments. Incredibly important investments go to charging poles, as I mentioned earlier, and to investments in biogas, cycle paths, energy efficiency and so on. This initiative has been very popular with local politicians. More than 1,000 applications of over SEK 2 billion have now been granted. It is expected that, of these efforts alone, there will be annual emission reductions of over 650 000 tonnes per year. Every year, therefore, emissions will be reduced by so much. This has also created a huge local commitment. It would be interesting to hear from the bourgeois politicians, who have criticized local climate investments so much, whether they can find a moderate politician, a centre party or whatever it is that thinks this is bad policy. When I look among these applications, I see one bourgeois majority looking for the local climate investment money. In the budget we are also investing in expanding electric buses, and you can get a smaller subsidy if you buy an electric bicycle. There is an exciting new initiative called Industriklivet. That's where we're gonna help the industry reset. They have to pay for a large part of the journey themselves, but we believe that by having earmarked money they can take some steps in the right direction. The budget is not just about reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. As the Minister for the Environment said earlier, it is extremely worrying how biodiversity is impoverished around the world. The proportion of bees, bumble bees and other insects has decreased by nearly 80% in Europe over the last 30 years. I spoke earlier about climate change. We also need a high level of biodiversity to meet this challenge. Small biodiversity communities have much less resilience to weather fluctuations and other external factors. It is therefore a good thing that we are spending more money than ever on increasing the protection of forests and areas of great biodiversity. We also set aside money to form nature reserves and to be able to take greater care of valuable nature. We are opening up initiatives for more sustainable forestry that go beyond the unilateral total impact that is currently prevalent. Instead, we can have forestry that is more on nature's terms. I also think that the direct investment in the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is of course incredibly important. We increase the grant by nearly SEK 100 million. Madam President, I would like When I look in the car. 2 in the report to see what the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats are proposing, I am faced with five shades of cutbacks. The Christian Democrats are not leading the honorable league of cuts at all. They want to reduce the grant by just over SEK 3 1⁄2 billion. Then follows a falling scale down to the Center Party. The common thread is that everyone on the bourgeois side is making major cuts in the area. I wonder how we can reduce emissions and maintain biodiversity when we make the draconian cuts proposed here. Madam President, I would like I would also like to mention what is in the report on cars. 6. It is a follow-up that the committee has carried out on the government's performance report in Category 20. We have simply examined whether the government is showing in a good way how efforts lead to objectives being achieved. We note that the government has become better at making good accounts. And reviews that we've done in the past have probably borne some fruit. For example, the government has now reintroduced a comprehensive accounting and assessment of the 16 environmental quality objectives, which are the heavy area in this area of expenditure. To do this, we have been assisted by the Secretary of the Environment and Agriculture Committee, Helena Rudin. We have also had the help of investigators Anna Wagman Kåring and Madeleine Nyman. Madam President, I would like With this in mind, I would like to support the proposal in its entirety and reject all reservations.
